ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44890	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, esteemed MPs and MPs. You have before you a bill of law, an amendment to the State Inspectorate Act. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at its session held on 30 June 2004, when discussing the State Inspectorate's report on the work and on 25 November 2004, when discussing measures to combat the grey economy in its conclusions, tasked the State Inspectorate to make amendments, supplementing the State Inspectorate Act in such a way as to increase the powers of the Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate in cases in which the grey economy is prevented. According to the information presented to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the inspectors of the State Inspectorate after the detection and identification of a large number of illegalities have submitted a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure with competent courts and have reached a solution on the prohibition of illegal conduct. Unfortunately, none of these measures have been effective in combating illegality and preventing adverse consequences. All forms of the grey economy, regardless of illegal employment or illegal activity, have the consequences of an irregular position of economic operators on the market and the absence of payment of the obligation to cash and to give to the State. Therefore, this legal text proposes solutions to curb all forms of grey economy and strengthen social discipline in the application of the rules supervised by the State Inspectorate. The proposed amendment of the Law on the State Inspectorate creates assumptions for more effective control of serious illegalities in terms of employment by empowering the labour inspector to include, in the case of established illegal employment, the power to fish for business premises, facilities, devices and other equipment for work for a certain period of 30 days or otherwise suitable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law was almost impossible to realise because of the inaccurate determination of the duration. The proposed amendment of the law will also authorise inspectors, inspectors, to authorise, in the exercise of inspection supervision when they find that an activity which is not registered or not authorised is carried out, or where there is no solution to another act, where it is prescribed by the competent authority as a condition for carrying out the activity, for the sake of the effectiveness of the measures, to adopt an oral solution in the minutes and to immediately prohibit a legal or natural person from carrying out any further illegal activity, whilst the sealing of premises, equipment and devices or confiscation of the means of operation until the established irregularities have been removed, or without delay, temporarily preventing the carrying out of activity until the end of the administrative procedure. Since the inspectors of the State Inspectorate submit up to 40,000 requests a year for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure and that they are not the only applicants for a misdemeanour, the courts are often in a position not to decide before the expiry of the limitation period on those requests. As a result of such a situation, misdemeanors shall adopt solutions suspending infringements due to an act of limitations. Among the requests submitted, there are also infringements which are of minor importance for the endangerment of the public order, social discipline or other social values, and we rightly believe that such infringements should not be subject to a request for the initiation of an infringement procedure provided that a breach of the rules in business has been found to be removed within 8 days of the day of the inspection and if the initial amount of fines for the offence is less than 1000 kuna for natural persons, i.e. for legal persons 3000 kuna. In this way, the courts would partially disembark and could decide on a number of requests against offenders in the gray economy zone. In line with the above conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the amendments to this Act should have been followed by amendments to the Law on Infringements which, unfortunately, are not yet in the stage to be discussed at this level but we believe that the Working Party will propose an effective solution to the amendments to that regulation. In addition to these major amendments to the Bill of Law, provisions have been laid down whose amendments were subject to other regulations; the Law establishing and deliriousness of the Ministry and state administrative organisations as well as the obligations arising from the Association Agreement with the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44891	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The Constitution? Economy, development and reconstruction? For work and social policy? Committee Chairman Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44892	Dear Mr. President, distinguished state, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health at the 37th session of the Committee held on 5 October 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Inspectorate with the Final Proposal for a Law. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with the powers of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. There is no doubt that there is an extremely large number of illegalities detected in the field of labour relations, especially in employment without valid legal basis. The Committee's members pointed out at the beginning of the debate and therefore supported the proposed amendments and additions to the Law, which will more effectively express administrative measures to prevent the grey economy. The application of the applicable Law and a significant number of found and illegally employed workers point to the need for a faster and more versatile examination of the cause of illegality. More decisive action, above all, by identifying more stringent and more effective measures against those who are illegally employed. Just by empowering labour inspectorates to establish illegal employment by means of a oral solution in the minutes for a specified period of 30 days, the activities of the employer are to create assumptions for more effective control of serious illegality in employment. The proposed measures are a first and important step in implementing the plan of short- and long-term measures to curb the grey economy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in late 2004. How serious the problem of the grey economy is from the fact that since unregistered employment, the State budget was damaged by more than 7 billion kuna only in 2004, the Committee members warned. The debate also draws attention to the problem of unregistered activities carried out in private, private-owned facilities and which labour inspectors cannot enter without a court order, which they usually do not get. In addition to the ineffectiveness of infringement courts in deciding on requests against offenders in the gray economy, it is evident that as soon as possible, it is necessary to access and amend the Law on Infringements, thereby making the application to initiate the infringement procedure more effective than it has been so far. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44893	Thank you very much. The Tourism Committee? For local and regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44894	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Chief Inspector, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of the State Inspectorate Act with these intentions, which Mr. Chief Inspector has made, in any case, are justified and we support them and we actually commend that initiative. They are, in fact, an unquestioned step in trying to curb the grey economy and the effects of the gray economy, which not only act destructively on the state budget, but act destructively on the complete organisation and functioning of society. In fact, one who doesn't pay taxes doesn't cheat on just some abstract state, some state organs, tax inspectors, and all that together, cheats on all of us. He cheats on schools, cheats on hospitals, cheats on kindergartens, cheats on roads, cheats on a complete social infrastructure that gets less money than it could and should get according to a job in the state. The impact of the gray economy is actually similar to the effect of the privatisation and conversion that we talked about the other day. What's going on? Workers get hurt. They don't get paid a pension fund, they don't get paid health insurance, so they practically work in a vacuum. They suffer common needs through taxes. Who's profiting? The profiling of immoral and unscrupulous, newly-roasted rich men whom no one could do anything, because the legal regulations were complex as they were complex, and they were not implemented as the legislator actually meant it. And in the end, the market and the competition, so the future. The one who works without a declaration of activity, without paying taxes, is absolutely certain that it is on the market to say it more competitive but unfairly competitive and in such a way all the good things that happened in entrepreneurship in Croatia actually fall into the shadows, because good entrepreneurial attempts by those who compete outside the norms of behavior are actually disabling and destructive. The reaction to that in the last few years, I'm not just talking about this government, I'm talking about the past government and the previous one, the reaction to such a situation wasn't much. The reasons are multiple. On the one hand, in the field of gray economy, people who are similar, suitable, handsome, and, on the other hand, in such a way as to disregard the rules or disrespect general interests, the common interests of the government sought to preserve some kind of social peace. Let's let people do their job, let's make some money so we don't get into it, we've got a lot of social problems anyway. However, these are of course short-term moves and cannot bring any breakthrough in the long term. Finally, here is the legislator of this law, so in this legislative proposal, it proposes quite a harsh measure, a measure of uncompromising which should put an end to the gray economy. I would like to mention another aspect of this law that is extremely significant, which we do not seem to have talked very much about in this House, nor in this mandate, nor in the previous ones, which is a problem of protection at work. In fact, injuries to labour in Croatia relate significantly more to the gross social product than it is to the situation in Western countries, even more than it is to the situation in these countries which have now joined the European Union. Obviously, not enough has been made on that plan, obviously even the regulation is not right, and even less the implementation. In the last few years, I think it was 6, 7 years in Croatia that established a few work protection studies, one here in Zagreb, one in Karlovac, one in Rijeka which already. The first generations of these experts have come out and appeared on the labour market, however, our regulations and experts do not force them. I see that colleagues from the Croatian Party have given an amendment that these very experts are involved as possible experts in, as possible inspectors at the State Inspectorate. This should be supported in any case, and it seems to me that the Inspectorate should put too much emphasis on this in its future work. Not only is this a way to fabricate completely unnecessary people with disabilities, but it is expensive and harmful in all other ways. A few words about some articles. Article 8 refers to quality control, or atestems. The fact is that uncontrollable imports of goods without atheists, and here I primarily think of textile products and products of goods of broad consumption made in fact a ruin on the market that inspection should, and should prevent. Of course, this involves pre-arranged arrangements and establishing perfectly clear standards of evaluation, athestification of these products. We have higher education institutions where top experts work who can certainly do it to the nomenclature, but also conduct research at the laboratories of our universities and institutes. Article 11 refers to the conditions to be met by inspectors. Besides this, I'd like protection engineers at work, and I'll want to do that in every law where employment is conditioned to speak. Look, we've passed a new Act on scientific activity and higher education where there are no more nomenclatures of high, higher and similar professional equipment. Let's try all of our next bill proposals, and I appeal first and foremost to the government to install a new nomenclature. The old nomenclature stands, people are trained by it, they get the titles they get, but in three years they'll start dating new people. Well, we're not just doing the laws for six months, so after six months, we're changing them again with some changes and supplements. Let us install into the new laws new amendments and additions to the law, the new nomenclature, so first-rate, bechallar, as it is already called, master of the profession and so on. We're going to make it easier for ourselves and we're going to give it, we're going to show that we're seriously thinking about reforming the higher education that we've entered, which we've courageously entered, we haven't spent yet, we've courageously entered. In Article 15, we propose an amendment allowing state inspectors to enter, of course, a court order into an apartment in other private premises of citizens where it is carried out, where undeclared activity is suspected. It is an amendment the Croatian Chamber of crafts directed, I think, to all clubs. We think that this is a useful initiative, because illegal activity, undeclared activity is not only carried out in the designated areas at all. The one who works without reporting the activity obviously won't put the company on the door, but will do it in some private space. Our Constitution, of course, preserves the privacy of the home, but for this situation, a solution should be found. We think this is a solution proposed by the Croatian Chamber of crafts, actually a good solution. Articles 17, 18 and 19 speak of direct measures and finally of the fact that the appeal does not delay the solution, that those infringing the law cannot escape sanctions by legal safeguards and good lawyers. He can find a way to fix things, he can find a way to get away with smaller sanctions, but the sanctions on the closure of illegal activity cannot be avoided and I think it's a commendable concept and that we need to support it. In Article 26(2), the provision states that inspectors who do not comply with the provisions of these amendments and the addition of the law and under the provisions of the law so far continue to work, it is not clear to me how it is feasible. If the law prescribes the conditions and if someone does not meet those conditions, I don't think he can continue his work. I think there are a lot of young and educated people in Croatia who meet the conditions prescribed both by this law and amendments to the law and by the basic law, and that these provisions should not be put into our legal regulations at all, because no matter what people with experience and all of this stands together, but respecting the rules is actually our first obligation. All in all, the Croatian People's Party and PGS club supports this proposal, and with these minor changes, I think we should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44895	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honored Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44896	Dear Mr. President, the honored representatives of the State Inspectorate, colleagues and colleagues. The problem of the grey economy or what is still called an unofficial economy or a hidden economy, one of the biggest problems not only in Croatia but in all transition countries, and when it was being prepared in the Government, a package of procedures to combat the gray economy and when we looked at the problems of the member states of the European Union, then we saw that this problem is still current, even though it has been fighting against it for decades. For example, in 1998, a strategy against the black economy or a hidden or grey economy was adopted in the European Union and perhaps another example, that a national Commission for the control of the grey economy was established in Italy at the office of the Prime Minister. So that is the problem that is affecting the countries of the European Union and the developed countries. What is the situation in Croatia? According to the Institute of Economics and the State Statistics, the situation is very bad. It is estimated that the annual loss in the state budget due to the grey economy is close to 15 billion kuna. For anyone who wants a comparison, we spend so much a year on health care. So that health care item that we absolutely lack goes to the gray economy and doesn't get that much money. In the analysis of certain components of this loss, we see, for example, It's unusual that smaller incomes have been reported than craftsmanship between $560 million and billions of kuna a year. Let's say it's a drug loss, I'm talking about a material loss, and not that general social one, it's about $400 million. That housing construction is about 80 million, that unregistered room and space is about 70, 80 million a year. Unlike these items, which are really small and acceptable, conditionally acceptable, unregistered employment annually carries more than 8 billion kuna from the Treasury. So it's about a piece of the gray economy that is definitely the most significant and that needs to be fought most meaningfully. But when we talk about the gray economy, then we have to say that we don't really have the data. Last year, thanks to our State Inspectorate, last year, we did an experiment on 5% of employers to see how many illegally employed and 5% of the employers were 5 grand. That means if it's a good statistical sample, it's 100 grand on black labour in the state. There are even more difficult estimates. For example, when the Union opened a free phone to report a black workforce, they received 2,883 applications based on the work of the black or free phone in two months. They calculated that if the work on black count and the work we officially call it "work in fusche", I don't know the Croatian translation, it's that afternoon illegal work, outside of working hours, so that in fact the number of illegal employees in Croatia can reach 400 thousand a year, which is practically twice as legally employed, so a terrible figure. Well, because of this data as much as they are quite insecure, the government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to implement a plan of short- and long-term measures against the grey economy. The plan of measures against the gray economy is very complex. The restrictive legislation that we are introducing today by adopting amendments to this Law on the State Inspectorate is only one and I would dare say a small part of the fight against the gray economy. This conclusion is based on the experiences of rich European Union countries. The resistance to these measures is great, and they can be found among employees, so both among trade unions and among employers, because both say that by curbing the work of those poorest layers, and often, domestic staff are really poor, that their social status will deteriorate, and that imposing respect for the law will increase employers' obligations. Both are true, but both are less evil than what it is today. Because if 12 million kunas enter the budget less or because of working on black 8 billion kuna a year, then it is less in the budget for social programmes, so it suffers the poor population, then it is less in the budget and for encouraging measures, so it also suffers the economy. If such a vicious cycle of default is not interrupted in the budget and due to this lack of money for social and stimulating economic measures, then the cycle of viciosus is left, a vicious cycle that goes further into infinity and makes the development more difficult, the whole development of society. Restrictive legislation is, as I said, only one and a small part and I am glad that the State Inspectorate is the first in this section of the government's decision and this programme of the government to go out with the amendments to this law and in this way I would say to build the first link in a long chain that is just ahead of us. This law, as you've heard from the predecessors, is trying to solve the biggest problems in the work of the state inspector. You've heard that approximately two years ago, the State Inspectorate has filed 13 thousand round criminal charges, that less than 50% has been processed, and 1,1553 reports have gone out of date, so we can say that the co-operation with the judiciary is not working well. You have also heard of the problem that the state inspector cannot enter the premises that are not registered for production, and it is suspected that there is an economic activity, because when they apply to the court, he is usually rejected by the constitutional provision on the non-violence of the apartment, i.e. private space. These are all things that have to change vigorously by amending the law, and this amendment to the law before us is the first step in this, a step that needs to be welcomed. But as I will later point to the example of other countries, it is not far enough. This Law, as you have probably heard and read, introduces very strict, rigorous penalties for the employer. Penalties shall be imposed in Article 17 in the case of inspection controls in the area of traffic of goods where the sale of goods cannot be established where the origin of the goods cannot be determined immediately by closing it. Also, an economic inspector may, by a oral solution, prohibit the current activity, so to seal it where it is not registered, where products of unknown origin are sold, etc. This also applies to catering and tourist activities which are not included in the regulatory register or if they work without a solution which determines that space, office, equipment meets the laws. In addition, Article 18, which means progress in the protection of workers at work, allows for the closure of production in which the workplace is threatened, in which the lives of workers are at stake. Or Article 19, not to mention, in which the labour inspector may, for 30 days, close and prohibit the carrying out of activities in the event that a foreigner is found without a work permit, if the employer has not reported an employee on pension and health insurance. How much will it mean to see from the example that the Peace Fund charged last year only 85% of the money that belongs to it under the law. It is also stated in Article 19 that up to 30 days and 30 days may be closed by that business entity where the employer, by virtue of a cooperative agreement or by any other legal basis, is entrusted to the worker of another employer. It's a very common way to avoid employee reporting, and it's immediately by sealing business premises. We also see later in the provisions on the level of penalties that they have been increased and that infringements in the event of non-application for pension and health insurance or if the work of workers of another employer is allowed by means of a contract with a fine is imposed and a ban on carrying out activities of between 3 months and 1 year. All this is also a alignment with the European Union's usual legislation for this area. However, they warn those who are more experienced than we are, and these are developed European Union countries that this is only the first step. And I think we need to take care of that, too. In addition, education needs a broad social action to explain why it is done because otherwise it will be resisted. But in developed countries, there is another exception that I think is very important to us and that is not really being discussed at all. How do these restrictive measures protect the poorest? Those who really live only on their own because they are unemployed, those who are employed in the household for a few hours really do on cleaning or repair jobs, etc., those who are the only or perhaps one of their minimum income sources. It's interesting how they solved the developed, rich countries. I'll point out, due to lack of time, just 2, 3 examples. Let's just say it's settled in Belgium. Every household, and it is estimated that the work in fusing is mostly done at household level, gets a voucher, raises it in the bank. The Voucher with whom he pays 6 euros an hour, of course, is consistent with their watch. For various service services with voucher, pay that worker. That voucher proves to him that he's hired someone who's not in a permanent working relationship in any other work organization. So it's the protection of those who don't have permanent working relationships. The difference in the price of real work and the price of vouchers is pacified by the state. So the person who paid the voucher such an employee, temporarily employed, or very short-employed worker, gets 30% of the value in cash from the state. And in addition, no tax is paid to that neither by the worker nor by the employer, the conditional employer. In Belgium, they believe that they have thus opened 25,000 new jobs that have been registered, which have been paid in part by the state which is less evil for the state register than that they are completely undeclared. And the work of the poorest is made possible. France has a similar system. Employment of household workers in such cleaning, maintenance, gardening, etc., minor repairs, painting and all other services are paid by checks that each household can raise in the bank. With that check, therefore, it was a guarantee that the legal transaction was taking place, in return for the tax it received 50% of the amount paid by that worker. That's how checks are raised in 1 million households at the moment. So a million households use this kind of convenience and are thought to employ several tens of thousands of workers in this way. In Germany, there is one similar system, sharing those jobs where up to 400 euros per month is earned, up to 800 per month, and in one case the worker does not pay taxes on it, and the employer gets one piece returned from the state. Similar systems have other rich and developed countries, and here, it is our proposal to accept, of course, the Law that is before us because it is absolutely the first step in the great fight that follows us, in the fight against the gray economy. But to include in these programmes very quickly these measures that would protect the poorest, those that could only be seriously life-threatening by implementing restrictive legislation. Therefore, our proposal is of course to accept these changes and continue with the government's programme, but much more intensively than ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44897	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44898	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm probably correcting the lapus of a respected colleague. He said "black labour," he probably meant working on black or illegal work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44899	I'm sure he was right about what you said. The club of HSP representatives, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44900	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Chief State Inspector and Deputy. The Croatian Party's Club of Rights considers it important to point out the following facts when it comes to this final proposal of the Law. The first thing that is important to say, the adoption of this law has been delayed for at least 4 to 5 years. On this problem regarding the gray economy, the work on black also knew the former government and had suggestions on how and how to remove it. So, amendments to the State Inspectorate Act. Unfortunately, she didn't do it. For this problem, this government has known for two years, two years, and it's all been doing it pretty hard for this government and it praises God that at least now this Final Bill has appeared, to take at least the first step that is important in establishing a situation that will allow the rule of law to function. In fact, you remember when we talked about residence fees, or the introduction of so - called taxes. Paushala, we then pointed out Minister Kalmeti, we from the Croatian Party of Rights Club and other clubs, that what unfortunately happened would happen if we went to pay for the cobwebs. And let us not resolve the question of the power of inspection that it can also oversee illegal tenants, what happened will happen is that many legal people have checked out and worked illegally, because they saw that the inspection does not have the authority to control that part, and this is a huge mistake of the government although it has promised to appear immediately before the summer break, the Croatian Parliament's breaks that this Law will appear. Now, let someone from the government tell me how much we lost revenue here that went to the state budget or municipalities and cities or tourist communities. A lot of unserious behavior and former and current authorities these problems are far greater than we think. Namely, let's just take the fact that Mr. Hebrang is familiar with this situation and he said the data well but the number is certainly illegal work or work on black crossings over 100,000 and if all these variations are taken just work on black and we are not taking the field of gray economy, we are coming to the data at the Croatian Party Club of Rights that the state budget or state loses up to 12 billion kuna annually. On the one hand, we have this indecision of the state, and we hope that now that order will finally be introduced and work in this area that the rule of law is functioning because there is no solution to the situation unless the inspectors are empowered to do so, but such powers as are now proposed for all of these situations, means a ban on working for up to 30 days or longer, depending on what situation it is, because this is the best evidence that when inspectors were given powers to work in catering facilities outside the allowed working time, until they get the authority as they are now given in this final bill, the situation could not be corrected. Such a situation was for the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, therefore, order must be introduced in all these areas, and order should be put in place to protect all of them, whether they are legal persons, companies, craftsmen who work fairly and honestly comply with all the rules, regularly pay their workers and pay in full and in retirement terms all of them act in order for everyone to behave. But now we must again point out one mistake of this government, not the former government, which is that the government, instead of strengthening the state inspectorate, went to separate individual inspections from the State Inspectorate, and we know, for example, that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, and that they were one year at a time, so that unfortunately we did so at that second session in December 2003, and we ourselves know that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, for a year to one and a half days, has been harmonising special laws with those provisions of the law, but it has so harmonised that these inspectors who do nothing important, who have moved on to the establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy, have no real and concrete powers because they are not prescribed as prescribed in the State Inspectorate Act, what and how the inspectors should do and what rights and obligations of which the inspectors have been in inspection supervision. Therefore, we managed to do another thing there, and that is if we allowed the same house, the same ministry to be an inspection and what is done automatically to enable us to provide a legal basis for corruption within these areas of action. Because it is a very different situation, which should do what the Croatian party's view is, that all inspections should be united as part of the state inspectorate, directly related to the Prime Minister, because then the Prime Minister will have the right information at any time, because let's be aware that no minister will say when the report says to the Prime Minister that something is wrong in his area. If he says he doesn't automatically have to resign or he'll be resolved but we unfortunately in one area like this are going forward and in others we're going back. What is important to us, means the Croatian Party of Rights Club, why we did not enter the area of protection of workers. So they could if not now, then we have to do it in the area of protection of workers and we know that many provisions and collective agreements are not implemented and that workers are totally disbursed, such a labour law is, everything should be given to inspectors that they can act and that their solutions in all cases where the employer violates the rights of workers, whether it is a matter of charging pension and health contributions, not paying off everything that belongs to the worker whether it is regular work, overtime, shift work and all those situations that the inspector's solution has the power of an executive document. Then, in this part and far, we would improve the legal position of workers and then we could say that we are implementing the principle of our constitution that the Croatian State is a social state, therefore, if the Government does not go with these measures we will at the Club of the Croatian Party have the right to present a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Inspectorate and to go to such solutions where we will provide adequate protection to workers in all cases when they are chicanated. Let's also say that you know that let's just take some of the trade chains, I was in one last week, so I asked a worker who was his trust fund last month, says over 300 hours, are you paid, says I'm paid for regular work I can't even ask for this because as soon as I turn to the inspection or ask the employer, since all contracts are for a certain time or I'll get a regular contract fired or I'll get an extraordinary contract fired. Therefore, these facts should also be taken into account, and therefore it is necessary to give authority to inspectors, but normally there should be full control of inspectors. Now, again, it's a situation like we're saying we expect a lot from the inspectors, but we need to be aware that they have no pay. The inspector at the State Inspectorate has one $4,000 salary and now we expect him to take measures and we know for ourselves how much a union basket costs, he speaks about 7000 kuna for a four-member family, with them having to work outside the hours and what, because watch out, the other state bodies rule is working hours from half eight to half five and for inspectors is not. For inspectors, first of all, work if it's about monitoring any of the subjects, let's say the work of the catering facilities, if it's about the tourist season, they usually work outside of that working time. So, we can't expect much of the inspectors if we don't solve their position, their rights, and then we'll get a whole system where we can get into the state budget what belongs to the state budget and automatically if we don't get those 12 billion kunas out of the country because it's not organised, which there's no possibility of sanctioning everything that can be said to the state and the answers, or if someone even from the state authorities is helping out, so watch out for 6 years to solve this problem, so what can be done now to the people, why it hasn't been done before, why, who's going to be responsible for these 4.5 years, there's about 50 to 60 billion kuna, what with that money could be done, how many new jobs could be opened. Therefore, we will support this final bill but we expect the Government to take other measures and steps it has, for example, one Germany and one England, and one Sweden, and one France to prevent the grey economy as much as possible. Nowhere is it possible to prevent it completely but to bring it into some bearable frameworks, to protect the workers, and to enable all those who are well-intentioned, who are craftsmen, who are owners of companies and companies, who act according to regulations, to provide them with a normal match and not one unfair match that they are now subject to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44901	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44902	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the wrong quote that reads: "This government is working so hard on regulations on the gray economy." Which is not true. In two years of her term, the government first recorded the situation that started all reforms, recorded the situation in Croatia, the transition countries, the European Union countries, adopted a series of measures concerning the exploitation of gravel and stones with major resistances, reconstructed the State Inspectorate, etc. So it's not true that this government was working so hard, it worked hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44903	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Kovacevic, said the government is unserious because he proposed that the Croatian Assembly adopt the Law on residence tax and that the Croatian Parliament passed the law because counterpart Kovacevic believes the law will not obtain the results the government expects. I must deny it and say that this government is serious and that this law has won excellent results except that the tourist season is the best so far. Just one little piece of information for the island of Vir. This year, about 500 thousand kuna of the residence tax was received more than last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44905	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44906	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President. This is not a correction to an incorrect quote but a replica because Kalmeta himself promised that the law would be passed in the summer session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44907	You said the regulation didn't get results and Mrs. Brnadic said she got results and it's visible from statistics. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44908	Here, it is not a mistake, as Pero Kovacevic noticed, of this and the former government, but was already a mistake of this government and that of the coalition government in which Pero Kovacevic of HSP was the assistant minister in charge of working on black.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44909	You haven't corrected the incorrect quote, you've mentioned some mistakes, so. Do not abuse the plate to correct an incorrect quote. Let's move on. Representatives' club IDS esteemed representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44910	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the Inspectorate! Here, let me refer on behalf of the IDS Club, therefore, to the adoption of a final proposal for the State Inspectorate Act. The IDS Club will support this law because we think it must be of interest to all of us to combat and curb the gray economy or work on black as it is even more popular. Here in this debate there was therefore a speech on how much the grey economy is actually spread in our economy, and we all agree that this is far greater than what would be needed and from the measure in which it appears in some other states. However, in order for this law to be more effective because we think that these laws must be effective laws we also support the amendment to this law proposed by the Croatian Chamber of crafts. We could actually say that it is most likely and paradoxical, therefore, that in this fight against the gray economy also includes the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, which is part of employers and also, for example, the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia as a representative of one part of the employment. But I'll say something about it later. So, as regards this amendment proposed by the Croatian Chamber of crafts let me read their explanation. With this amendment, by respecting the constitutional principle of non-violence to the House, we propose that the State Inspectorate Act provides for an exception according to which only the court may, at the request of an inspector, explain by written order and determine that the House or other space should be searched. A number of measures have been proposed in several years of efforts by the Croatian Chamber of Adversaries to take measures to prevent black labour. Among other things, the adoption of a special law on preventing black work was launched in 1999, but the initiative was not accepted. The Croatian Chamber of crafts specifically pointed to the problem of illegal work taking place in the living rooms and the need to resolve it. So this amendment is about a program of illegal unregistered work in living rooms. So how registered or legal this work can be done with respect to all the conditions, therefore, and in these rooms. So, especially to point out that it is illegal work because it is also a sensitive problem of incurring the privacy of the individual. Since the plan of measures is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to combat the grey economy and therefore this law does not cover this problem, we propose that it be resolved through the State Inspectorate Act. By accepting this amendment, work would be curbed without permission or unregistered work of citizens in residential rooms with coverage and other rooms such as garages, laundry and the like, which is largely present in the gray economy of Croatia. Therefore, it is the interest of craftsmen in Croatia to suppress the illegal work that is done in these rooms with the ultimate aim of thus protecting those who respect the law and work according to the regulations. Because what's going on? It happens that those who work illegally, who are therefore working on black, who use such black workers that they are more competitive than those who fulfil all their obligations and who are actually fulfilling all their obligations are actually not competitive and they are doing damage because they can't afford to compete with those who behave in an illegal, illegal way and in fact the essence of this problem with regard to entrepreneurs and craftsmen. On the other hand, the Union is actively and strongly involved, especially the Union of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia, because workers are therefore very interested in being paid to the right extent for what they are doing. Also, to be paid for health and pension insurance and not simply for them, there were such cases, when they come to the doctor, discover that they do not have health insurance and simply cannot receive them. It's the same with the pension fund. There are cases that when their retirement time comes, people find it regrettable that they don't even have conditions for that pension and have years. All right. Here, the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia is doing an Internet research on black, which was jointly conducted by V-portal.ww.work.hr and the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia as part of the "stop work on black". It has been shown that as many as 50% of workers would agree to work undeclared if the employer provided them with double the average salary for their place of employment. Also 37% of respondents, workers in Croatia said they were working on black. I'm going to use this statistical data a little bit, so from this research, we're going to illustrate clearly what the market situation is like in Croatia. So, the results of the research work on black tell us that most employees in a steady working relationship are working on black, and the causes of this phenomenon are numerous: low incomes, credit overload and inability to meet the basic living needs of regular incomes. It is also seen from the total number of black out of 37% that it is participated by both unemployed persons and persons in a part-time employment relationship. As the main causes of a large number of unemployed persons in Croatia, which are actually forced by those workers due to a bad situation, respondents see a poor economic situation in the country as 32%. The lack of developed measures and plans for systematic employment is 30%. The infunction of the legal system that protects workers 26%, here is the law, not the scale of offer and job demand 12%. It is also a worrying fact that only 37% of respondents would report their employer if they did not report them to the state as their employee and would not pay them salaries and basic contributions according to the Labour Act. These results show that people are actually unconscious about what work is on black, what forms appear and what are the long-term consequences for both individual and society as a whole. However, the main reason for the lack of motivation of legal insurance workers is the fear of losing a job in the event of the employer's application. As many as 36% of respondents said they did not know if they had reported their employer to be in such a situation and 27% would not have reported them to an employer who would have hired them on black. The largest negative side of working on black subjects sees the inability to provide basic labour rights 45%, small pension incomes in the future 30%, credit debt inability 40% and a reduction in government budget revenues of 11%. This shows that subjects are familiar with the negatives and consequences of working on black, but are more concerned with the exercise of current rights, i.e. the future consequences of undeclared work, low pension income. As three activities in which black workers listed 30% of respondents recognized construction, 22% tourism and catering and 17% retail and wholesale. The Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia declared this year 2005 to be the year against working on black, and it is supposed to be their assumption that Croatia has about 400 thousand workers working in one way or another in black. So these results show that work on black or gray economies is unfortunately very much present in our daily lives and that the situation should be run with a clear, therefore, and strict legal, legislative regulation but there is also an important implementation of which the state inspectorate certainly plays the greatest role. So, for all these reasons, therefore, with the hope of accepting the amendment that has therefore come through us to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, we will support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44911	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ledinsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44912	Honored Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Chief Inspector, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words about the amendment and addition of the State Inspectorate Act. As the Proposer states, the incentive to propose amendments to this Act is the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached at a meeting last November 25th in connection with measures to combat the grey economy. The State Inspectorate is hereby responsible for the preparation of amendments and additions to the Law on the Inspectorate held as soon as possible. This is the Law, therefore, one of the points of government's duty, which was under regular number four, which the government has brought in order to combat the grey economy in connection with the pronunciation... to which individual... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the subjects and individuals reveal, prevent and punish the activities of the gray economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal covers several basic issues. Since prescribing cases that give inspectors the power to make oral solutions from the method of executing oral solutions, from the obligation to write... oral solution within 8 days until the solution is spoken, then cases of appeal and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These proposed changes will make it possible to curb the grey economy probably. And that's why this bill of law will support the HSS Club. However, when we talk about this, the implementation of this conclusion would be much more effective if the Government had made amendments and additions to this Act earlier than practically a year after the measures were taken now by emergency procedure. Which is why I think that, since I think it's practically more than 25% of GDP is officially considered to be working on a black or gray economy then I don't think it's necessary to wait that long to come up with a proposal for this law that would give clearer and more quality authority to the representatives of the inspectors. The question also arises whether one segment means only a question of changing the law can solve these accumulated problems. It was mentioned that many other measures have been taken to address problems in the gray economy, but it seems to me that they have not produced the results expected. The problem of the gray economy exists in all countries, we can tell the most developed where the market economy is highly regulated and where there are no significant institutional gaps that will encourage or allow the growth of the illegal economy. The difference between those countries where we will soon enter the European Union and we are in the fact that the measures to combat are far more effective there than with us. And we have to admit to ourselves that just... More effective measures can prevent that part and then, through the regulation of the legal system of the state, enable employment to be within the institutions of the law and then not to be a grey economy but to be able to talk about normal work and standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The social economic phenomenon of the grey economy in Croatia should be seen as a result of deeper disturbances in the development of quality institutions, implementing mechanisms of the market economy, as well as a reflection of the existing social values that have arisen dominantly in the development of transition over the past 10 years. In economic terms, key drivers of the grey economy represent both the unmeasured tax system and the excessive and inefficient regulation in the area of rejuvenation. And then we don't need to be surprised that, on official research, the level of the gray economy in us is over 25% of the GDP. Although the grey economy is present both in the economy and in the public sector, the public administration of activities that are particularly exposed to the gray economy are: agriculture, food industry, trade, construction, tourism and hospitality. The expansion of the gray economy creates problems and... global proportions distributed at macro level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It causes major inequalities in micro-level distribution and makes it impossible to adequately conduct economic policy. On the other hand, practice suggests that the grey economy may, to some extent, have a positive impact on the dynamics of economic activity, reducing unemployment rates and maintaining the living standard of the population. But I've said it before, and it's certainly not a good way to do it because in that part, everyone loses. On the micro plan, citizens' attitude towards a grey economy has increased with a lack of confidence in the state, poverty and general economic uncertainty, as well as a lack or fall of business morality. The repressive measures that the state is normally campaigning to combat the grey economy are short-term. They only work on the consequences. The effects of these measures are incomparably less than the effects of measures which would affect the causes leading to the occurrence of the grey economy. Then the question is, what are we doing? More specifically, what is the government doing? From the information that was present in the media in the last few months after here 9 months after the government's conclusion, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Economy of the tripartite group where the partners assessed, the social partners were dissatisfied with the measures the government then presented. It is evident from this that not all the measures taken in the government's conclusion were implemented that certain data were not presented at that meeting at that time. Now here's a few months later, I'm asking myself a question, and all of us, what's been done to realize these measures almost a year ago, and have we ever managed to make some major and more significant shift? As far as this bill is concerned, I said the HSS Club will support it but we appreciate that it would be much better if we got it far earlier and in that part I must say that from my and personal experience with state inspectors' staff that their role must be great and significant. That we've had extremely good, good cooperation for that part of the work that I've been doing but they're often powerless and we can't just rely on the measures that the inspection will carry out if we don't have a systematic solution and systematic control. In the end, I would conclude that the HSS Club will support this proposal with these notes that I made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44913	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44914	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDP Representatives' Club are wondering if the State Inspectorate Act in the Republic of Croatia needs more? Or we should simply let all ministries oversee and control themselves and carry out their own inspection of their work in order to enforce the legality of the work as we have done in agriculture and forestry, as we have done in the field of tourism and so on. See which laws are practically excluded. The Law on Marine Fisheries, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on freshwater fisheries, and again the Amendments to the Law on Forests, and the Law on Wine, so as not to list everything in such order. All these inspections were excluded from the State Inspectorate and returned to the Ministry. Let us set the following: What if the Law on the State Inspectorate excluded the affairs of inspection supervision of trade and hospitality from what would be left of this Law? Nothing. There'd be nothing left. So the question arises, and what exactly do we want to do? Do we want to have the State Inspectorate as an independent body that will carry out inspections independently of where the management portfolio is located and which will actually ensure, on the one hand, the protection of consumers and recipients of services and on the other hand, by producers and service providers in relation to each other and to national authorities when they exceed... The second thing we would like to notice, and let the second one be, is that we have the State Inspectorate as a special independent body and we are in order to unite all inspection affairs with the State Inspectorate and that what is exceptional is to return back to the State Inspectorate by showing, among other things, that actually areas in which, which are excluded from this State Inspectorate will now be twofold criteria controlled, supervised by inspection controls. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises whether state inspectors or state inspectors will oversee employment relations in the field of fisheries, hunting, forestry... I don't know questions about wine and so on, freshwater fishing and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it is forbidden that, for example, the State Inspector may also be employed by the State Inspectorate and a person with high professional training related to both hunting, fishing and so on because this is as a special, special law, and labour relations should be monitored. I think there's going to be a lot of overlaps and a lot of problems and that in a situation like this we should think about bringing this issue together. And in fact, this amendment as well as some others shows actually the presence of one silent and conflict within the executive authority over what to leave to the State Inspectorate as an independent body which, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, conducts inspection controls in accordance with the law and under the law and is solely responsible to the Government and the Parliament or to keep it under the "atara" sign of the quote, take this, atara figuratively speaking. So the special resolutions of the ministries themselves are practically self-monitoring and inspection controls are being carried out. Another problem that arises is that in a relatively short time since 1999, this eighth amendment and the addition of the law has been in an incomplete 6-year period. And it's very serious. In such a situation, the question arises whether it makes sense to amend and supplement laws, among other things, to amend amended and amended laws that have been adopted so far or that a new State Inspectorate Law should finally be drawn up. I would just like to remind myself that this amendment and the addition, the eighth, includes 24 articles that change that I am not talking about that they are of such nature as to change the concept of the law, and not only the amendments and additions of the possible 73 articles, and that at the same time they have 4 complemented, supplementing that law. Therefore, in such a situation, the question arises that this is far more than 1/3 of the provisions that are amended or supplemented by this Act and why the new law is not prepared, the more the conceptal change and relations between the State Inspectorate and the ministries and relations within the State Inspectorate and the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate regarding, above all, the work inspection and so on. The third thing we would also like to mention is what we draw attention to. These are such amendments and additions to the Law for which previous quality discussions were to be provided in part of the work and the amendments and additions made by the Government to the parliamentary procedure. On this proposal for a law, it should be possible, the final draft of the law, to allow before the debate in the Assembly to show the tripartite system or employers, to show trade unions and to actually get their comments, opinions on this proposal. As you can see, this has not happened, and it has already been through the clubs that comments have been delivered, including the amendment type, to the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions and the Association of craftsmen, which is quite, since we are opening the fourth question that amendments and additions of the law are being touched in the area of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms. Let the respected colleagues just some of them count taxicabs. First of all, I would like to remind myself that our Constitution guarantees, guarantees the right under Article 18, guarantees the right to appeal of individual legal acts adopted in the procedure of first instance before a court or another authorised body. The right to appeal may be exceptionally excluded, exceptionally excluded in the case of certain laws, provided that other legal protection is secured. Instead of exceptional exclusion, we here now have a general clause under which there is no right to appeal, but is referred immediately to administrative disputes to be conducted etc., etc. So not the exception, but they've changed in general. The second thing is very important, beware, we get the situation so that the proposed law can seal the business space, etc., etc., if in these and those conditions are found, up to 8 days, only within, on a oral order, only within 8 days, a written order must be delivered, and in fact, a man will complain about, to conduct a dispute in those 8 days. And this is a very, very important and very big time, especially if it is in the light of facts, and I would like to point out on behalf of our club, that the article changes and additions in Article 17 in point 7, says: "The legal or physical person to whom the oral solution applies, is that, in writing, this article can be requested within 24 hours of the adoption of the sealing room to be temporarily burned and attended... First, it's written on the basis of which, based on an oral order. [[You don't understand.]] So, no, no, no, no, he's got an oral warrant that needs to be sealed, but there's no record. He must get, within 24 hours he will record along with the solution received in 8 days. So now the question can be asked. First it says the law can. Now, what if he can't use his right not to use it, and there's damage to the "defiled" foods found in such crafts shops, for example shops, small catering or, say, legal persons, etc. You see, according to the State Administration System Act, it will be paid by the state budget, that body of the state administration, and of course the state is responsible for that. In such a situation, we will open up new problems, new disputes, and new damages and new burdens for the state budget, and therefore the issue should be further considered, done and seen. The other problem we would like to warn you about is the fact that this issue of the matter is not possible here orally, by written request, on the basis of the minutes alone. Be careful, the record is given an objection or opinion, not a complaint, and that is a big, big difference and there is a formal problem in such a situation. The second question I would like to warn is the fact that our Constitution simply stipulates that the structure and operations of the state administration and the way in which they are carried out are governed by law, and at the same time in Article 10 is explicitly said that the Chief Inspector will write down the rules and procedures... And so on and [[You don't understand.]] You see, this way and procedure cannot be regulated by the regulation, it must be governed by law, and by technical norms of course species and quality, etc. He can handle it with a rulebook, etc.. Thus, the Constitutional aspect also raises doubts about certain provisions. And it remains the third, which is, in fact, the most important question, is the search and control of other areas, and it does, this law applies to both the craft and the situation, of course, it is a very important question of what to do now, since the Constitution is very clear that the search and control of space can be practically based only on a court ruling, i.e. a court order and, of course, always with the presence of two witnesses. In such a situation, the question is, in fact, quite justifiably, the reaction that followed from the Chamber of craftsmen, where craftsmen rightly warn that it is not possible to do so according to their business space, i.e. craftsmanship, as this law provides. The fifth question is, in fact, that, most of the provisions refer to inspection supervision related to work relations, protection of workers and, above all, to the issue of prescribing the conduct of the inspection in relation to work on black and what to do in such situations. However, one very interesting question is raised. For example, Article 2 states that when Article 4 is amended to make public inspectors compulsory, they shall, in particular, refer to the application of the rules relating to the obligation of the employer to report to the competent authorities of pension and health insurance, working time, wages, employment in the work of minors and women pregnant, maternity, disabled, foreigners, etc. And so on and so forth. And what's the question is why inspectors can't control, for example, pension and disability insurance payments, payments and healthcare contributions related to it because it's out of workers' salaries, regardless of who's the obligor, bearer of obligations and duties, because the employer actually prepares all of this. And why wouldn't the inspectors then be able to give a solution that has the character of an executive I.D. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this way, they would avoid situations to a significant extent, although not entirely, but to a significant extent, if people were to go into retirement, they worked for so many years, they applied for pensioners, and when they began to realise that they were missing 4, 5 and more years of working life insurance, because they simply did not pay for their insurance, even though they had done the job experience de facto. It is, of course, the abuse of rights, it is, of course, a violation of the rights of workers etc., but then this shows actually one little bit, just on this example, one small, dark picture throws at this bill, at the goal that is to be achieved. It turns out that it is intended to curb work on black, to ensure that black-based work is prevented primarily by funds for the state budget, but is not taken care of enough, in fact by those in these relationships, and especially by workers. The second example is, for example, Article 6 which is equally questionable. It cannot be prescribed by law that, under the order of the competent official, state inspectors, or inspectorates, are obliged to work overtime more than full-time, etc., if this is necessary to carry out these tasks in a successful and timely manner. Look, one thing is to do business in a timely manner, and the other question is whether it will be successful. In the end, they will argue that, for example, if someone is in charge of the dispute. Well, you see, that's why things like that can't be prescribed without being prescribed at the same time and what rights these people under the law might have in such a situation. Whether they will have the right to work overtime, whether it will be paid, with what accessories etc., etc. This should be indicated, so that if anything else is at least the right in this law, and then implement certain implementing rules and rules that should be dealt with. Of course, we would like to warn, in addition to the question of this damage that we have warned about, regarding this part, that it is especially necessary to consider the issue of protection and workers working on black, including workers who have the character of foreigners or foreign workers. In fact, it is far more important here to establish obligations, not only to protect rights or fight against protection on black, but also rights of abuse, such rights by employers to these people. Look, it's about people who are in social trouble, in social misery, at the very end of the stage of extreme urgency because they have to provide some kind of income source for their part. I can discuss in a way that needs to be contained, that it should not be contained, but legalised, but then special obligations should be prescribed for inspectors when they find it not to suffer the consequences of the worker. We have amazing things that actually people who try to earn a piece of bread for themselves and their families, as you can see by construction sites etc. Arrests them by the police, brings them to a conversation because they're rules now, and instead of punishing those who put them in such a situation and put them in such a position. I think that in this respect we should supplement these provisions of the law, so these provisions that stand can remain, but should be complemented by the aspect of protection in such a category of workers, conduct talks with trade unions and employers and see how such issues are resolved. Especially when it comes to problems that are ultimately related to their status, their material rights, position and function. And in the end, we would have to say, however, that when a fine is applied to these workers and cases like this, then you know the penalty of 30 thousand to 120 thousand kuna is too small for the employer. Because, you know, that's actually the question then big numbers. If he catches one, I'll pay for it, and in fact everything else goes on. You know, I think that in a situation like this, it should be sharpened a lot more, and it should also make that kind of protection more quality. And the last thing we at the club propose. We suggest that we actually convert the debate about this law, about the law in first reading. That it is not adopted by an emergency procedure, regardless of what is very important for this law to be applied as soon as possible. But while we've been waiting so long, let's do these few more things so that the quality will be as good as possible and we'll actually protect and achieve not only through the legal system, but we'll give one valid instrument to get these issues settled, re-emphasizing that no part of the affairs that have already been allocated and transferred to the ministry should be rediscovered from the State Inspectorate, but in that part until the second reading, these inspection jobs should be returned to both wine and fishing, and freshwater, and maritime, and forestry and hunting, etc. etc. for the simple reason to actually get a State Inspectorate which, by its own nature and content, can and should be protected both by state and national, but also by business and labour interests in these relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44915	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44916	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Arlovic, and regarding the issue of an oral order. According to the State Inspectorate Act, any measure shall always be taken, the factual situation shall be established and the actual situation shall be determined by the minutes. On the basis of the minutes, a resolution or oral order and all other matters shall be adopted. Mr. Arlovic probably thought of other inspections he didn't have to work for, but the State Inspectorate doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44917	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations by Mr Arlovic, who said that the ban on carrying out activities and the ban on the record will cause damage to the state budget if the easily corrupt foods are broken. This is not true, because no harm can be suffered by the state budget because the inspector, during the course of inspection, draws up the minutes and in the adoption of the oral resolution, warns the party, i.e. the legal and natural person to remove all easily corrupt foods before fishing is carried out, and also Article 17 of the State Inspectorate Act in paragraph 7. it is indicated that the legal and natural person to whom the oral solution referred in paragraphs 3 and 5 of this article may, in addition to that oral warning, be able to request, within 24 hours, to be burned and to take easily corrupt foods, and during those 24 hours, it is certainly not possible that a major, significant part of the food may be broken in order not to be usable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44919	This concludes the debate by... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44920	Mr. Vice President, my colleague has expressed her opinion, has not corrected the incorrect allegations. But I have to say that exactly what I've been saying on behalf of my club about these 24 hours related to filing a written request where it says "can" is a different view of our club than at the point of view of a respected colleague. For a simple reason, if it can, it means that a craftsman or an individual does not have to file such a written order, although the adverse consequences arise, then it will be paid by the state, or all of us by our citizens, and that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44921	Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, haven't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44922	No, no. I explained why I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44923	You didn't specify the article I hurt, but fine. This is what we've concluded with the club debate. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the individual hearing has expired. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. Dear Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, of all the jobs that the State Inspectorate is dealing with, and that includes control in goods and mining, and pressure vessels, the most important segment of the State Inspectorate's affairs is to monitor the application of labour regulations, because it participates actively in countering the gray economy. Announcing the fight against the grey economy, speaking of the inability of the previous government, current Minister Schuker pledged greater efficiency. That's when he said if I was the finance minister, I'd cut the grey economy in half, I'd fix the state budget. Now, after half the term of office, we see that he did nothing in this regard, not because he did not want to do it, but because it is not as simple as Minister Schuker was showing it. These amendments to the law extend powers and boosts repression. Okay. It's one of the possible solutions. Personally, I don't mind extending the powers of the State Inspectorate, especially I don't mind tightening the fines. Because the grey economy is a huge problem that not only affects Croatia, it is present in other countries and that Minister Shuker is as capable as he promised, then other governments would take him as a special adviser to solve the problem. How does the inspector work or how did he work up to the bill? He's filing criminal charges. And then what happens? These misdemeanor reports go to criminal courts and then the misdemeanor courts process it, and here it is beautifully written and how they process it. In 2003, they found something over 5,000 illegally employed workers, in 2004, even so much to bear, and in 2003 they filed 6 thousand and 200 requests for misdemeanor courts, and the misdemeanor courts solved all thousands and 600. When we take the decisions of the criminal courts, we see that out of 4000 and 600 decisions on earlier reports, a thousand and 153 ended up being suspended because of old age. So we can conclude, these misdemeanor courts are completely ineffective. It's an entirely inappropriate means of combating the gray economy. Reliance here in criminal courts is naive. Of course the employers know that. They probably, with joy and peace of mind, receive misdemeanors because they know that nothing will happen from these reports. That is why it is good to go in amending the law and therefore it is good to increase the powers of the inspectorate. What, though, does the law not take account of enough? He doesn't care enough about the protection of workers. Here's an example. A state inspector will come into some big trade chain, it employs, say, 1,500-2000 merchants and will find 5 illegally employed workers there. And what will they do under this law? He will impose fines that have been prevented from being high or will file charges against the criminal court for that fine, but he can, not that he can, but that he looks and must prohibit work for at least three months to a year. Now, what will happen to the other employees. Who protects their rights? Will that employer pay their wages in those three months that the entire firm doesn't work? These are questions that this Law does not resolve. He doesn't care about them. He is not engaged, as he rightly observed by fellow Hebrang, or those workers who work on temporary, occasional jobs. It's mostly unqualified labour, semi-qualified labour, which can be found a job in the world of work, and that job is more or less permanent. These are different service services, household assistance, in smaller systems, etc. These jobs should also be regulated in some way, thrown out of this gray zone, and can only be thrown out of the gray zone if they are legally covered. If they are described and the issue of occasional, temporary employment and such workers is resolved. In that sense, fellow Hebrang gave two instructive examples. The example of Belgium was a brief example of France. So, in Belgium, the voucher, in France checks. Great. Great. That would mean covering the problem entirely. But what do these vouchers mean, what do these checks mean? As fellow Hebrang put it well, they actually represent certain tax reliefs. Which means not only the beating that comes in the form of this bill, it takes on the other side and carrots to make employers do more in this legal sphere. To discourage me from doing business outside the law, and on the other hand, to attract them and reward them if they do business under the law. And the same for employees. However, tax relief Minister Shuker not only does not intend to increase, he announced that the ones that exist will also be abolished. So, we're going to rip the carrot out completely, we're no longer offering the carrot, it's going to be the only beating left, and I don't think only with the beating is going to be able to achieve what's the state's interest. To curb the gray economy as much as possible. Here's an example. We suggested on behalf of the Club that tax relief be introduced to learning foreign languages. That it is, that it enters that personal deduction of citizens on tax returns. Now you can see what this would have to do with curbing the gray economy in this problem that we're talking about right now. If it were a relief, a tax deduction, then it would be worth some kind of confirmation. So it could be prescribed that this certificate can only be given by a foreign language school that gets some kind of a license from the state. Then all those other foreign ones, and those schools could be controlled by the state's inspectorate. And all those other foreign language schools, and there are hundreds of them, who may be hiring those foreign language teachers in black, or reporting them, issue some kind of certificate that is worthless, which would they teach a foreign language? If their confirmation and payment would not be a tax relief. Citizens would, therefore, go into the legal sector. Why? Well, only because it would be worth it. The language teaches them both schools, but this one because its certificate is valid for tax relief and which would be controlled by the state inspectorate would bring them tax returns. Therefore, I think this law is good, as it is. Maybe it'll help a little bit to keep the gray economy a little bit narrow, you shouldn't expect too much from it either, but I think the system needs to be upgraded. If it had to be upgraded, you'd been taken for a while, three months by the government to take, six months as long as it takes, to come up with such a system in which the repression would be combined with tax relief to achieve one goal that is in everyone's interest. It is all in the interest of the grey economy in this country as little as possible. Having the illusions that she's going to totally fight it doesn't make sense to cultivate such illusions, but we can all make it less together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44925	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44926	Thank you very much. I would correct the false allegations of a respected representative when he said that Minister Shucker had done nothing to repair the gray economy and he had made a great deal of promises. On the contrary, he has done a great deal. For example, he compensated seven and a half billion hidden expenditures from the previous government, which is also a grey economy, unshown and the Ministry of Finance and the IMF. He then increased the collection of excise duties, which is also a non-payment of excise duties in the grey economy. It has increased tax collection, which is also a grey economy. And it was precisely at countering Mr. Shucker's gray economy that managed to increase the budget by approximately 5% to 6% a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44927	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44928	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Inspectorate, colleagues and colleagues. I also think it would be good if the Parliament could decide to discuss this law in two readings. To make any more remarks by the second reading, see what else can be done. And here, at the very beginning, I would like to start with one conclusion, which is that there are many good laws in Croatia, well written. Many protective elements are well embedded in laws. However, we in Croatia have a problem implementing these laws, therefore, with practice. Unfortunately, in practice many of these laws are not implemented at all and there is no systematic mechanism that would therefore work to implement the laws. I think the inspectorate's been having trouble with a small number of employees for years. I think a very small number of state inspectors are doing a very large number of jobs, but I also think it's a bad thing what happened to this law now, which is to single out certain segments of the State Inspectorate. Namely, this one intensities that inspections in the management area of marine fisheries, hunting, forest seed and forest fruit material were the exception of the State Inspectorate was one tendency, I will say, certain lobbies and at the time of the coalition government. Fortunately, the coalition government did not do so, we thought that the State Inspectorate as one body must have all inspections under its supervision. So within the State Inspectorate, and that, I think, is very bad this time because if someone else is going to stand out tomorrow, tomorrow they're going to say I'm not going to have to control that part anymore, so the State Inspectorate. And finally, the question is, what are we going to have? Whether or not the State Inspectorate will be needed, and I think it is an institution that is extremely important as a control mechanism for law enforcement. I think so far, according to all the reports we've received from the State Inspectorate, it's obvious that state inspectors have a lot of problems. They have problems mostly with powers that were very small, and where it actually ended up with reports of misdemeanor courts. Irregular courts, unfortunately by all indications or by giving the lowest possible penalty to employers who broke the laws, or in a number of cases, these cases went out of date. So unfortunately, the judiciary has also contributed to this part that the system does not punish those who violate both labour rights and laws again. Here someone was talking about the fact that in Croatia, in a grey economy by some calculations it goes out of the budget somewhere around 15 billion kuna, an extremely large amount of money for a country that needs money to solve some other problems, therefore, the grey economy really needs to look for effective funds, because it is unacceptable for this kind of money to end up in the pockets of individuals instead of ending up in the state budget, and then for those who need the help from that budget most. Unfortunately, a very large number of violations of the rights often given in their reports by the state inspectorate warns but warns and trade unions are the employment of black workers, without the payment of pension, social, individuals who receive a salary that is at some point the only source of survival, the only source of how they can feed their families, however, long-term it is harmful for them, because they will not have a pension tomorrow, or health insurance, therefore, this is something that must be stopped and by what I have seen in this law is going on very rigorous measures, so even to the fact that companies can be closed and businesses can be limited to certain employers who thus violate labour rights. We are even here instructions and some companies because we had data that mostly large retail chains are full of people working on black, people who work 12 hours a day, people who don't even get a little extra pay for it, although they do work for a minimum, because when we talk about these retail chains, they often come from some European Union countries, they don't behave there, they don't think they have black workers in their home countries, who pay with minimum wages, who don't pay overtime hours, they don't pay for work at the time of the weekend, but in Croatia they act quite differently, they only act because there are no systems here to give them, so to say by their fingers because of that kind of behavior. In many European Union countries, there are very rigorous ways to deal with such employers to the extent that they are found second or third times in a re-infringing of the same law so that they can be permanently banned, with very high fines, with the temporary closure of the activity that they can at some point be permanently banned from doing so, and then let the employer think about working for the rest of their lives, working if its fundamental activity by the state is banned for the rest of their lives. Therefore, it seems to me that other countries have not had a better situation, and at one point they have had such a difficult situation and have decided on something very rigorous, but apparently such measures can only give effect to individuals starting to comply with the law. And in the end, I'd like to say something about the work of a minor, about the work of children. In fact, in some reports of the State Inspectorate all these years, it is also stressed that there are a very large number of children who work, these children were found in many of our companies, and they also ended up in infringing courts and we did not get effective protection again. It's not necessarily for children to work, it's for children to play, to live carefreely, not to work in some kind of facility. Just remember the sad fates of Roma children in Međimurje who, after working in the field, so the extraction of the money potatoes, not on their property, but on their earnings, drowned by some accident, unfortunately then the statements of some people from the police administration were very inappropriate because he must work together and it is that children should not work, no matter how hard their families live. Then there was a statement from the MUP that the kids were working happily, that it wasn't a burden to them. I once again think it's unique for children to play at a time when children have time to work when they're adults. Therefore, when it comes to the work of children, the work of a minor who is illegal, I think that the state inspectorate should also be given enhanced powers, I think that because of such a violation not only of the law but also of children's rights, really employers should bear great conjectures. And once again, it would be good if we had discussed this law once again, just because we passed a very high-quality law that would put an end to and a grey economy and a violation of labour rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44929	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the State Inspectorate. If we see the reasons for the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure, it seems to me that none of us who opposes the adoption of this law because of the suppression of work on black and gray economies is one of the foundations for Croatia to advance as a state. However, I am afraid that, in these conditions that we have today, we need far better and better quality working conditions for the state inspectorate and state inspectors on one side, and we need to continue faster and much faster than the justice reform so far. Because as we have seen from the materials that we have received along with this, it is simple and what the state inspectorate does well and correctly often gets stuck in Croatian courts and I'm afraid that's how we're going to move forward. Here we will give perhaps greater rights, and we must give ourselves or give ourselves a warning or just criticism because we often pass laws and the government or individual ministries of sublegal acts that make it difficult to enforce certain laws and punish those who do not work properly. In particular, in Article 2(2) where it is said that employers are obliged to report and provide health and pension insurance to workers in the prescribed time limits, I must say that practice is saying something else. Often, employers do this, often times those who are in public value and are considered very good, as a very business, hire people month after month, so they keep working for a certain time, for a month such people are simply citizens or workers of the second order because they do not have a permanent job. On the one hand, I can't credit myself to talk about annual vacations and everything else is just illusions and delusions. Here, I will say today in a daily newspaper a rather bizarre example has come out in one of our northwestern county which is happening, an employer in the store, this time it is a trade activity, I hope that state inspectors also have opportunities, as most Croatian citizens unfortunately do not buy and read the newspaper regularly, says in an article which, I will not quote, I will convince him, says that one trader receives 7 workers who believe or do not charge 30 kunas per day for the use of sanitary space, electricity, water and sanitary material. To be more specific, it is as per man 210 kuna per week, i.e. for 7 workers 1470 kuna, of course after 7, 8, 10 days these people get fired have not been satisfied with the trial work and we see that there is no application for either pension or health care. It's a similar thing with a month's worth of work, which is why I'm afraid, and I'd like to hear what the promoter is going to tell us, but we as the High House, too, I'm afraid that often by punishing employers, we're going to punish workers even more. Therefore, we need to bring in some security mechanism to protect these workers. A little bit more about the store, here's a colleague of Opačić talking about having outside shopping chains coming to Croatia, which do not allow their workers or workers to work for eight hours. It was published in the media and we haven't heard the denials from these trade chains that especially mark the workers who have periodicals, can't go to the sanitary node and everything else. Thus, such a thing would not have occurred to them in their home countries to make. As for the same, we must also be careful not to fall into a trap and related to Article 6 that we and state inspectors, that both the state as owner and government, and we, as parliament, pay overtime and all that is coming to them as state inspectors. I'm afraid state inspectors but also a good part of the civil servants here didn't come to the green branch to often talk to each other and do something else on our own. I have to say one thing that concerns me especially and where we as a state as well as state inspectors have not done enough in my deep conviction, is it because there are no material and other conditions, which is the sale of alcoholic and tobacco products to minors. I would like to get an opportunity to talk about it now because if we don't already have a chance to get a report from the State Inspectorate for the plenary session and all as representatives, I think that some of the parliamentary committees should and should deal with it at their regular sessions, and that we are also talking about how many reports there have been and how many misdemeanors have solved the application if they are sold to juveniles and I have witnessed several times sold both alcoholic and tobacco processing. As regards Article 15, which relates to Article 51(2) of the Law, I consider it to be a good solution, and I particularly welcome it because it refers to small craftsmen who were mostly so punished, who removed either the same day or the second day of the irregularity observed in them, and I think that this should be welcomed and that such solutions can be only a step forward to edit and individual solutions in themselves. As regards Article 17 of the Article 58, there is exactly what I specifically point out, which I know the State Inspectorate is doing a lot of work, but the segment of work is very large, it is a question that certain goods do not correspond to declarations, quality and everything else. Let's just remember that affair that was related to GMOs present in the food. Unfortunately, we have never received a report or information in this House of Commons until the end. It's clear to me that often times the State Inspectorate has no money to carry out certain surveillance because it's expensive, it takes a long time. Therefore, obviously, for better work of the State Inspectorate, one more time I stress the need to secure in the state budget and more money, especially since we know that the State Inspectorate is providing money to its supervisors in our state budget. As regards Article 6 and Article 19 respectively, this is a well-known situation relating to mineral raw materials. Much has been done, however, by my deep conviction still not enough. It seems that in Croatia we have so many ponds and so much fish production, especially in these northern counties, that we can feed half of Europe because under cover of some research, a pond is set up, and in fact, there is an exploitation of mineral resources, and it seems to me that it is still not done enough, and I think that there should be more support and more opportunities for the State Inspectorate. I also point out once again that when we had a debate on the Mining Act, I am afraid that even then the Government did not respect some of the arguments that we, as advocates, made to do more by solving this problem. And finally, and I mean no less important in Article 19, it is said that employers who give their workers to someone else at the benefit and work that those who receive workers should control whether these are reported and we know ourselves that often they get retired, go to the doctor's apartment, that neither the owners paid them pension or health insurance. I think that there should be a little bit more, more precisely, how to define that control because I am afraid that this will remain a dead letter on paper while this communication goes between one employer, another employer and possibly the Croatian Pension and Health Insurance Office will be completed and we know that today's work, generally manages often requires workers to go to each other daily on loan and I think that it should be much more precise and much more operational to solve such a thing. My personal opinion is that the intensity of this law is good. However, this too will remain a dead letter on paper if, once again, I stress, we do not give a material, better and better-quality material base for the work of the State Inspectorate on one side, so that by law or by this law we do not exempt individual ministries or individual inspections from the State Inspectorate. And in addition, to bring the final reform of the judiciary to an end and that what the State Inspector does in a quality and well-worked way that misdemeanors or other applications simply end up falling into oblivion and not being resolved because then we give further incentive to those who violate the laws to continue to violate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44931	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44932	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I will only briefly and clearly repeat the position of the Croatian Party of Rights Club whether or not the rulings like it. This law has been delayed for at least five to six years. If the law had been passed in early 2000, in 2001 it would have been a perfectly satisfying situation in terms of filling the state budget. Our judgments are that, on the basis of our lack of adequate and more effective measures in the fight against the grey economy or work on black and all that belongs to that group, the state budget is lost from twelve to fifteen billion kunas per year. So you take, multiply by four, five years, that's almost one whole state budget. This is a huge amount of new jobs, how many social problems and everything else could be solved. The former government unfortunately failed to do so even though she was familiar with the whole problem. The problem was the conflict within the ruling coalition, I know that Mr. Arlovic was for it and that she was also the rest of the SDP club, allegedly others were not. This government has known about these problems since the beginning, it has known before in pre-election times. Unfortunately, though, she waited two years to deal with these problems. But again, it's not comprehensive enough. The first and huge mistake is that this government has agreed to that part of the amendment to grant individual inspections from the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate exemption and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. This was done at the second session in December 2003, and all this is now the consequence of all of this, and that is why the Law on the State Inspectorate of the Sea and these things is harmonised instead of going to the variant of putting all inspections under the auspices of the State Inspectorate and binding directly to the President of the Government because then this situation would be clear, the Prime Minister would know exactly what the situation in which he and the entire government would know what the situation in a particular area is and now they will not know or know because, for example, they will not be able to know, for example, one minister or health care where the sanitary or health inspection or, say, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry would say that his inspection is not working well and does not work. Not only do they work poorly, they don't work at all. They've been organized for years. For some time, as far as I know, a medical inspector had one. Sanitary inspection also has a huge number of gaps. So we made one mistake, and I think we need to remove that part in the further part. We will also support this Final Proposal and finally introduce order in these areas, to start acting, but we say that we will go if the Government does not go with the amendments to the State Inspectorate Act. About the protection of workers. The protection of workers and we know for ourselves what kind of situation they are in if we just take the fact that according to the judgments of both the government and our judgments that we in Croatia have up to 120,000 workers working on black. They have to work because they have no other options, no other existence. If only that fact is taken, if many employers do not comply with the legal provisions, nor respect the provisions of the collective agreement, and in any case, if the worker reports it, either through the union, or reports an inspection, he may expect things in the present state to be received either on a regular or exceptional basis. Therefore, it should be noted that whenever the inspector determines such an irregularity, he will make a solution that will have the executive power. The executive force, so there won't be any problem in paying any pension contributions, either from health care and then we'll say that we're also a social state. Therefore, we must move to solve all these problems. Each of us knows, here last week I heard two cases that two workers who were not reported, so they worked black, died in the Zagreb city area. And what now, what are his rights in terms of he will obviously have to go to sue that employer to get compensation for the loss of reduced working capacity, are the fractures of the spine if it falls, say on the team buildings. I've even heard cases that even within these, when works are done for needs and any city municipalities, cities, counties, and even states, or we're going to take an example of Dinam Stadium. The roles are not black workers because they are strangers who are not reported. What then to say in these other situations when it means those who should respect the law and take care of it, means state, government, ministry, county, cities, municipalities, they hire subcontractors who have black workers. That's a huge problem. The big problem is ours too, our bad solutions to the Foreign Law or the pro-creating way. A stranger gets a work permit without a problem. Therefore, we have a huge number of these issues, and we really need to decide and finally solve and take what is most important because the huge number of companies, craftsmen, entrepreneurs who behave in a timely manner are paying taxes, paying, paying workers wages, all fees, and they are now in trouble, because the state is not taking measures to prevent them from having an unfair match, and those who do not behave according to Croatian laws, but are doing contrary to Croatian laws and making illegal gains, because workers have not reported, did not report at all the company, or crafts to deal with the team and team, perform these works. And that makes it difficult for those who want to work and do things by the law. Therefore, it is the same obligation between us and the states to enable them to play an unfair game, but to work and create and hire new people. Here's the shortest, so we'll support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44933	Thank you. Dear Representative Pancretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44934	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague and I differ in certain things and that's logical, he was in the state inspectorate, and then as an employee of the state inspectorate and I was a minister, but I don't think it's possible to say there was a mistake. I think this division that's been made between the state inspectorate and the individual ministries that are... A certain jurisdiction is well-divided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is divided in a way that the ministries now control certain production until a certain time when the product becomes both product and enters the market. And the state inspectorate is in charge of traffic. And I think it's time to wait and not be hasty with some grades whether it's wrong or not, etc., and I'm convinced that time will show that it was a good decision here that this government has taken and that the effort was still in the last government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44935	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44936	I'm glad that the Honorable colleague was to blame for the situation, he brought the inspection into the position of "cadiya and suing", "cadija you judge", so if we're going to prevent corruption, if we're going to sanction everything, if in the same ministry the inspection and the minister and his scams, are we going to do something about it? We're not gonna do anything. But if he's on the side, well, then there's another pair of freaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44937	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Inspector and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Basically, I agree with colleagues and colleagues who have spoken before me who suggest that the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the State Inspectorate Act be adopted not by an urgent procedure but by means of a second reading. I also believe that what is proposed through this bill is absolutely not enough, or tomorrow we will not be in a position to combat, in an adequate way, not only the gray economy but that it is much more appropriate to try to protect work or the right to work and workers. For me, however, these are partial solutions and without what should be followed by this bill, amendments and additions to other legal regulations, this will remain only a dead letter on paper. At the end of the line, I can say this, in order to try to solve at all everything that has accumulated in the field of working relations, in the field of employment of workers, working on black, I think it is essentially a political decision and a political will to solve these problems. And I'm afraid she's not enough. Namely, I remind you, a little while ago, something I was talking about with colleagues from the HSP Club, somewhere this spring this year they just proposed some amendments and additions to the existing Labour Act, the government then in its opinion that it had assessed that, that these proposals were good, however, that we would not accept it now because that the Government had almost completed a package of amendments and additions to the different legislation that would better regulate relations in this field of work. In a more adequate way, the workers, on the other hand, were punished by employers who did not comply with these rules. Unfortunately, to this day, we have not seen any of these legal proposals, so I urge the government to hurry up with these suggestions. In the reasons for the proposed amendments to the State Inspectorate Act, the applicant shall specify certain figures relating to 2003 and 2004. But if absolutely nothing is better this year, allow me just a few data relating to the first 8 months of the inspection work, the work of inspectors in the field of precisely working relationships. So for example, for the first eight months of this year, it was found when it comes to the number of workers who worked illegally on any basis of a total of 7000 798. The number of foreigners who worked against the regulations in Croatia for the first 8 months was 947. I would like to distinguish one interesting thing from this figure, therefore, 947 foreigners who worked illegally about 730 workers were found in the area of Split and Rijeka, which leads me to the conclusion that the most illegal employment and work of foreigners on black in the field of tourist activities but of course also construction because our coast is one big, one big construction site. Also, on this occasion and in this debate, I would like to say this: it is not a problem, of course, that is what colleagues and colleagues before me have only said the work on black. I'm asking, of course, what about all those other irregularities that labour inspections find in their employers' tours? So I also want to say that for the first 8 months of this year, 4169 workers were found in illegal overtime. That in the night's work, illegal, 350 workers were found, of which 325 women. As regards the number of infringements, i.e. the application to initiate a misdemeanour procedure, the number of infringements is definitely not reduced, because 4720 requests by the inspector for the initiation of infringements were submitted for the first 8 months of this year. If we take into account what it says in these arguments of the Law, I think that, I say, none of us here know how many of these demands unfortunately in a year and two prove to be, that they've become obsolete. Last night, on television at the central news daily on Croatian TV, 15 black-working workers were told that yesterday or the day before yesterday at the construction site of a polyclinic clinic. And then one piece of information was given that only 37% of the workers working on black would have sued their employer if he hadn't reported them. If in this research, or when those workers who in different ways do not exercise their labour rights, that number is unfortunately and far lower, because I believe that, of course, everyone already knows that, regardless of what the law found to be, all working relationship procedures have to be completed within 6 months, unfortunately, our practice shows that the work disputes that workers have been running for a very long time and, of course, it is always the worker who has to prove that certain irregularities have been. Finally, I would also like to say that I support the proposed amendments given by individual MPs and representatives clubs, which are related to, when it comes to the terms of the technical arrangement that labour inspectors must have in the field of protection at work, therefore, to take into account safety inspectors who have and professional equipment from the field of safety of work protection. I want to actually, here in some way to encourage thinking and call the government, for us here parliamentary representatives to move in one direction in which other countries have already gone a long way away, and that is that when we talk about protecting our work to stop thinking only about whether a worker or a worker has protective clothing, shoes or a helmet on his head because safety at work in modern business conditions means a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44939	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44940	Thank you very much. The position of workers and workers today has not been more difficult since the Croatian state's draft. By 2000, therefore, we had a robbery in privatisation with all the negatives that we have not solved to this day and which will long be burdened by Croatian society as a whole. However, today's situation is precisely about non-compliance with existing rules in the last year and a half, about the abolition of very important standards and provisions that still have been guaranteed to the worker by at least his basic right, the pay right has been abolished. Payouts don't exist anymore. Unfortunately, this debate takes place in the light of the fact that the Croatian government has also established the possibility, it has established the possibility that those owners who have remained in debt to the state and did not pay off workers under the password: "Swiftly" set up a new company. No one's got anything against a quick start-up of a company. If anything is fast in Croatia, then it is fast, but I have no objection and that the current situation does not accelerate but not towards those who cheat on the state and who cheat on the workers. We often ask ourselves, shall I say something earlier about how strangers behave? Well, then we talk a lot about some changes. How all the changes that will have to happen in Croatia are not taking place because the issue is because there are not many laws that can make laws also often impossible, are not effective, that they do not solve the right state of things because it is a matter of mentality. But it's only in the system or the system. How aware or unconsciously we are of these phenomena that we are looking forward to, and any shift in order to prevent, prevent all illegalities in terms of national fraud, but also in terms of the protection of workers versus employers and a whole series of things that have been given to the inspectorate in public is experienced and welcomed with great approval. I would like to say that here's the country that's up to it and there's still a welcome step to discipline employers, and I think it's a valuable measure here to praise the key to a lock for certain violations, which is certainly good, and I think that's the most valuable change. But she's not enough. It is insufficient to further protect the state from stealing but also to the workers themselves, according to the employer. But in order for the state to do so, it must fulfill its own obligations. Let us also remember the Law on Developed Defendors, as well as the possibility of encouraging employers whether they even appeared in the form of units of local self-government and their own, and the obligation of the state to pay off such employers and units of local self-government, which are also employers, who employ developed defenders, certain stimulations. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like it anymore. Only the state owes 80 million kuna on that basis. Yesterday there was such a debate, so when the facts say, the gods must remain silent. These are inevitable facts. Now that state wants to discipline other employers. However, it has already been noted here that it still seems lenient, mild to the strongest. And you see this is simply one trend that is absolutely necessary, Croatia needs investments, it needs foreign investments. But here's the thing about foreign investment, it seems to us that first one capital that behaves incredibly, which acts primarily against the law. We have not even questioned the origins of this capital that entered Croatia, but the fact is that foreign owners are advocating the illegalities of each type, and to their own disregard for workers' rights, i.e. Croatian employees themselves. That's certain, and that's what statistics testify about. However, the inspection should be stricter. Local owners are more controlled than foreign owners, and they know it well and make good use of it. We even have a situation that to this extent it escalated, that there are Hungarians even who own houses or some apartment holding... guests and it is no longer a controversial phenomenon but a widespread phenomenon. Very quickly, this foreign capital sees that it can behave legally as it behaves in its home country when it has to behave differently here. This indicates the nature of capital and the tendency of such to break regulations first, and the second thing is in our system that must then be effective in order to suppress such behavior. She reported here on this subject and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce who believes that inspectors should be given such authority in order to curb the work on black, so that they can quickly get a court order and search the houses to see if one housewife has any spare brooms or she has gone to make extra money cleaning someone's house or someone's apartment. And that same one that was regular and not only 8 hours but unpaid work on Saturdays and Sundays and overtime was not paid by the employer. Thus, all the measures introduced or even planned to be introduced are headed for stricter training against the weak. So the state once again shows all its power and power towards the weak, and still a great weakness toward the strong. To this extent, the position of truly Croatian workers was threatened that a large meeting on the topic in Austria was held during the 4th month of this year, where work in transition countries was being debated. Croatia, unfortunately, has taken first place in this exactly. So most in Croatia there are those workers who don't get paid at all. It is once again a monster who ruled Croatia and it is a real shame that the Penal Code was abolished where the pay for the worker, not the right to work, was a criminal offense. Similarly, the present situation is such that the Government does not find fit in such a difficult situation, so pay defaults, overtime defaults that we do not say that the Government does not pay those taxes that are mandatory under collective agreements. So it's all these good intentions and the good measures that are here and that have no objection, but why didn't it go into the changes that would primarily protect the workers. Here we see if the worker is working overtime, not reported, measures are foreseen for the employer. It's good here that the key in the lock is enabled, it's only effective. But what about the worker and when he will make his claims come true. In the summary of the prohibition in Article 61 which the Government does not alter, the inspector has the right and duty to order the employer to remove the established infringement of the labour rules, unless it is the right which an employee may exercise before the court, which is almost all, all rights of the worker are exercised before the court. So the state here in this quick, quick procedure where as much as it wants to protect itself, the worker leaves at the mercy of long-term litigation and trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44941	Thank you very much. A series of corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44942	Thank you very much. So in a series of incorrect allegations that a respected colleague made during her discussion, I will correct only one. It is completely incorrect that the Croatian government is fast... or the stop shop boasts because it allows those who cheat on the state to open their trades faster and faster, or get all the necessary documents. [[You don't understand.]] On the contrary, the introduction of the Institute quickly allowed all those who really need to get to certain permits as soon as possible to come to one place and that is exactly the opposite of what you've been trying to do the whole time, and you failed because you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44943	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44944	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Anticevic's, also in her presentation, in a number of incorrect things she specifically pointed out that the robbery of workers was only until 2000, and in fact your government showed after 2000 how to rob workers. Today, there are courts, international courts, that you haven't paid workers a regress, you haven't paid them a Christmas card, so a whole series of things. Workers were thus robbed after 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44945	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44946	Dear Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209, which speaks when a correction of an incorrect quote can be used. It was about replicas and even bending my exact allegations, just to make it impossible for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44947	That's not true. Thank you very much. Correction, your quote has been corrected. Please sit down. ... You've abused the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please sit down. You cannot thus address the claim that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is because it corrects your claim that you disagree with the correction. It's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure that you've done. ... It's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure you've committed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I will not give you a warning about this abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but keep in mind that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Velimir Pleško, correction of the incorrect allegations. Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44948	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Ingrid Anticevic, I must say, has given an incorrect quote and I will correct it. The lady found that the state protects foreign citizens while our citizens are more often and more controlled and cited an example of Hungarian renters of space at sea, means in tourist activity, and I deny it precisely by saying that this Law is just proof that the Croatian Government is not protecting foreigners in the Republic of Croatia at the expense of local citizens. Because this Law right now allows for the future to be controlled through inspection supervision by a stranger far more quality than was possible so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44949	Thank you. And the fourth correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44950	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic incorrectly stated that the Croatian government does not respect the obligations arising from collective agreements. This is a completely incorrect allegation, and it is true that your government did not respect the obligations arising from collective agreements. So today we have a situation that the jury accounts of numerous schools, both primary and secondary, are simply blocked because your government did not respect the obligations arising from the collective contract. That's why we have a problem today, and we have inherited this situation, unfortunately, from your government, and this government has a great respect for the obligations arising from collective agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44951	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44952	Same Mr. President as last time. My exact allegations are distorted under the password of correcting the incorrect statement and the abuse of the Rules of Procedure is violated, i.e. the provision of Article 209 is violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44953	Thank you very much. Now, esteemed colleagues like this. You're making a certain claim. That claim is incorrectly challenged by another representative. Is this claim yours correct and whether the correction of an incorrect assumption is correct in that the President of the Parliament can't even be evaluated by the chairman. Is your claim correct or is your claim incorrect? If an agent reports a correction of an incorrect allegation and contests the allegations of the previous representative by claiming that his claim is incorrect, then you cannot report and claim that the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because your claim is correct, and that the claim made by the counsel that challenges your claim is incorrect. I'm warning you because you're violating the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44954	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you must take care of Articles 213 and 214. Article 214(1), first subparagraph, third subparagraph "the representative is told a warning if he reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction of an incorrect statement, and starts talking about another topic he has not received." And that, I'm turning you to 210 again. Yesterday, you were telling me that you shouldn't use your phone to make a phone call even though I never did it, and I've seen you phone a couple of times like I saw the Vice President of the Parliament today. That's how it was. Therefore, on behalf of the HSP Club, I ask you to take care of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 210, 213 and 214 too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44955	Mr Kovacevic, I am certainly taking care of this and Article 214 states that the representative is being warned if he reports either a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction of an incorrect statement, and he starts talking about another subject he has not received and that is there. And as for the use of the phone, I, as President of the Parliament, have all the responsibilities and responsibilities and I need to be in touch with both the Government and the Parliament, because I care about the relations of the Government and the Parliament, and don't give me any proof of that, about the application of the Rules of Procedure. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please sit down. I also give you a warning. Dear Representative Mirjana Brnadić, please. ... [[Applause.]] You can't... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44956	I request a session of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44957	You can't discuss the strict extent expressed by the President of the Parliament, there's no debate. There is no debate on this strict scale. Keep going and I'll give you another warning. Mrs Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44958	I support the adoption of amendments to the State Inspectorate Act. From the data on the number of detected, illegal actions, we see that the figures are alarming, that despite the large number of procedural violations and the administrative measures imposed that are trying to detect, prevent, punish the gray economy, it continues to exist. That is why, like all colleagues before me in the discussion, who supported it, I support the amendments and additions to this Law that will certainly create assumptions of effective repression of illegality. However, I would take this opportunity to speak of both the status and the rights of the inspector, especially the salaries of the inspector. I'm sure you'll agree with me that the inspector's job is extremely responsible, difficult, dangerous. That inspectors work under very delicate conditions on the ground, and what are their wages? Inspector III's salary. species with 15 years of employment, medium professional training is about 3,000 and 600 kuna. The inspector of high professional equipment with 15 years of employment has a salary of around 4000 800 kuna, net, in which the amount is included and a salary allowance. A senior inspector of high professional training and 15 years of staff has a salary of about 5 thousand and 600 kuna, which also includes the amount of salary allowance. The system pays civil servants, and so the inspectors were arranged by the Law on civil servants and tenants. The State Officials Act, National Journal No. 92 of 2005, which will enter into force in most of its provisions on 1 January 2006 with regard to salaries and other material rights of inspectors only prescribes that these rights will be regulated by a special law. For this reason, I consider it justified that there is also room for special provisions on the salary of inspectors in the future Law on the payment of civil servants with a view to increasing existing salaries. Inspectives are such a nature that they represent a link in the chain of disclosure, registration, prosecution, sometimes judgments to start a delinquent of supervised legal and physical persons. I therefore feel justified that the increase in the salary of the inspector should be brought closer to the salaries of the judicial authorities because it is only this way that all participants can ensure that they have an equal position in preventing illegal occurrences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44959	Thank you. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44960	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Inspectorate, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have heard here that the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Inspectorate has been delayed and incomplete and will not systematically resolve the gray economy in our country. And I say, and I congratulate this government that it has come to grips with solving this as one of the evils of our society and clearly, not raising the illusion that we are going to eradicate this social evil as well as the others. But we can certainly realistically expect to bring it down to the so-called socially tolerated limits. And therefore this is the government, and the grey economy has been before this state and since the establishment of an independent Croatian state, and during one government and during another government, but this government has adopted a plan of short- and long-term measures to combat the gray economy, and it is this plan that has been entrusted by the state inspectorate to propose amendments and amendments to the law on the state inspectorate. I wouldn't talk, and we all agreed here, even if I was incomplete, and at least I was unfair, we all agreed that we should support these changes and complements because they're one in a series of measures to curb the gray economy. And the damage from the gray economy is certainly very big, we heard here today 15 billion kunas which is an enormous amount and we can only imagine how much we could improve the standard and life of citizens and how many users of things we could solve with that money, but I would say that even greater damage than the gray economy is one feeling of social injustice, one that neatly reconciles obligations to the state and society and the end of it looks at the one who is unjustly rich and remains unpunished. And often this injustice is also against an unfounded employer, it is unfair to an illegally employed worker who fails to exercise his labour rights and is unfair to all thirds who have registered incomes and often fail to achieve their social rights because these registered incomes exceed 50 or 10 kuna, and those who are not registered earning far more even the social rights that this country gives them. If I didn't continue with these amendments and additions, I would especially praise this effective measure, which is how my colleague Anticevic says a very picturesque key in the lock or fishing on the inspector's oral order and in particular in two I would say the most sensitive and current problem, which is employment and work on black, and the latest phenomenon in the catering and tourist activity of illegal rental, and in a very large number of illegal rentals by foreigners. In this situation where efficiency and justice and the management of administrative procedures are as good as I am holding this measure, I keep it effective and we have the information, it gives us statistical reports here's a state inspectorate that shouldn't be happening, and we're going to have to think about changing other laws and that's that here's out of 4500... the lawless courts a third is actually suspending procedures because of old age. Those who break the law know very well that if a misdemeanour procedure makes it difficult enough with any complaints that they will fall into obsolescence and they are safe from sanctions. I would especially warn of one injustice that happened, but I don't think it's because the introduction, the law was before this House, the introduction of a flat-rate fee, it's one of the measures in countering the gray economy, so I think the tourism ministry did well because it introduced a flat-rate fee, as it handled things well in the black charter but it wasn't enough. It is true that this measure has caused a number of other injustices, and they have also warned HSP colleagues who had reported activity, and besides them were usually locals or islanders who had reported their two or three rooms, domestics, and paid for a flat-rate which was often not full and were followed by strangers or people from other parts who rented apartments completely undeclared. This is exactly an excellent measure because it allowed the state inspectorate, that often the State Inspectorate would not say that he was more lenient to foreigners, had no way to act on foreigners, did not know who the property owners were and was allowed here to seal the facility, and wait for the owner to check in, report and then solve it in the process. And here I would say once again that I can agree that the measures are not complete, that they could have been 10 and 5 years ago, but they are certainly one significant step in solving this problem, and therefore I think that the adoption of the law is good and I support its adoption in an emergency procedure precisely because any further difficulties in the first and second readings would have made this problem more difficult. The introduction of order in the state and society certainly guarantees healthy civil society, guarantees a satisfied individual because the individual is most in pain of injustice and will often suffer materially, but if he sees it fair and equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44961	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44962	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Chief Inspector, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly one of the most frequently mentioned authorities of the state administration is the State Inspectorate, especially when it comes to consumer protection, protection of citizens, protection of enforcement and vigilance of laws, in one word he is a sort of regulator in a society that needs to be, and he is always expected more than any body in the state administration. It is always expected to solve and to respond to what he cannot give in nature, unless all things in the economy of a country are fully laid down previously, unless all relations in the parent activities are fully regulated, given the fact that the State Inspectorate covered the overall area of social economic activity in our country and that apart from one small segment is fully united and should give a certain cumulative effect in the supervision, control, protection, prevention and all that is expected of the State Inspectorate. Of course, there is always one question whether such an orderly relationship in the State Inspectorate with regard to certain activities, i.e. specificities in some activities, gives this the best way of organization, or perhaps there is a reason to consider that in some ways I refer to the issue of tourism as an important chapter, which is in some way apostrophe in these amendments and additions to the Law, is it good to discuss also the model of return to tourist inspection. I just want to explain some things for a more picturesque display. In fact, tourism as a special branch, although we cannot call it an economic branch, a special form of goods and services has its own visible specificities, has over a hundred sublegal regulations that are very important for establishing the facts that the State Inspectorate must establish. It is not, of course, equal to looking at the coker, so afterwards the cement factory and then going to a catering facility, to a hotel or to a similar type of facility and to give a correction of the word and about the problem, enter into a measure of the problem of very complex activities that communicates on one side with consumers, which are guests, with service providers, with a very wide and complicated structure. This is one of the reasons why in the future should be considered primarily for the sake of efficiency, for the sake of better expertise, for the experience grounds that are very important in whether it is possible for certain activities within the framework of the State Inspectorate in particular to single out and specify the specific positions of inspectors to deal exclusively with this. Namely, I know it's too much to ask but when a state inspector comes in to review rooms, apartments, hotels and there he needs in nature to do his job and communicate with those guests who, of course, belong to citizens of other countries who speak other languages. Of course we have to ask our inspectors to be educated in that way. Whether it can be asked for four thousand kunas, I certainly can't bid it here right now but in any case, one commitment to these people specializing in that branch is certainly a good way. When statistics are read today, how the State Inspectorate of this tourist season has done its job, so when it is said that a total tourist inspection within the State Inspectorate has carried out more than 40,000 supervisions only in terms of tourist and catering facilities in private accommodation and catering facilities, of course, it seems a very respectable number. Apparently, the number of misdemeanors was lower but was charged on the spot by far more funds. But let's go back to life. After the introduction of the flat-rate payment fee, which gave its results which are also visible in statistical data that the number of visitors in private accommodation has increased significantly, including in some counties 35 and 40%. Of course, that's not the result of a real number of guests. He is the result and method of registering the residence tax as a flat-rate. On the other hand, that part of the flat rate calculation should be harmonised with the principle of equality that not pay the same to those who have a lot and those who have little so that this instrument should be further humanised, that the instrument should be filled in classly further. Of course, there's time for that, but the more important thing I want to refer to is the fact that the subject of these inspection controls in almost 99.9 cases was those who had a cobweb. So they are predetermined to pay and will pay their fee of 300 kuna and 300 kuna tax. And that they had their faults, that they had not issued their accounts, that they had no medical examination. So a whole series of reasons that aren't fundamental and aren't important to establishing if everything's okay. Because if someone got into the system of cobwebs why do you even need to refer to his bill that he betrayed? He pays as much as this parliament has decided to pay. And we punish him for the consequences that have nothing to do with all the others who weren't on the list that they were reported to be engaged in the rental business were not at all the subject of processing tourist inspections so that they could carefreely deal with black rentals and they unfortunately weren't in this material. And then, of course, that figure that, according to some of the analysts' projections, continues to range between 18% and 30% of the gray zone, an activity zone that does not have valid papers, does not pay taxes, and thus leads to inequality for all those other citizens who are doing it right. And I agree with my colleague, Lovrin, who said that exactly the local people, people living in that place for various reasons, and also moral reasons, would have listed perhaps at the top of those reasons in several cases, or almost explicitly, were reported and paid the flat tax. Therefore, the measures to be taken if we want to turn this gray zone into a white zone is that such an object is established to be a person regardless of whether the host is there or not it has to be sealed. It is the only measure that will lead to everyone paying what is provided for in the law. If we do not bring such a measure, if we do not establish such a relationship, there will be no other characteristic or educational form, so whether it is from Hungary or from Germany, it will continue to behave the way it behaves. Of course, he was also from Croatia, anyway. Therefore, the measure must be that the inspector may seal the area in which the activity for which no required paper is carried out. And only ten such cases and within the next month there will be no such problem. Therefore, the Tourism Committee has also supported the adoption of such measures that will certainly create not only a better picture for the sake of control, not only of filling the state budget, but of creating a picture of a serious tourist country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44963	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44964	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Chief State Inspector, Deputy. First of all, I support the adoption of this law regardless of the polemics that are guided because I don't think there are ideal laws, so the laws should always be amended at the moment when we see that it doesn't fit what life carries and what that law should be answered. And these amendments to the laws that we're proposed here lead at least in two directions. One should be an additional increased possibility of protecting workers' rights and on the other hand should be the protection of the match, where I think that every protection of workers' rights is also leading and protecting competitions or bringing employers into a more equal relationship. However, what concerns me in this law, in this bill, is in the opening part of the evaluations and sources of the necessary means for law enforcement. I think what it says here, so it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia simply not true. If we won't allocate additional resources to employ new people, to secure new vehicles, new communication funds, new computers, new spaces, I don't think this law will be possible to implement. Already, according to a report on a huge job and a huge number of applications and a huge number of cases carried out by the state inspectorate, we are coming to the conclusion that they are practically within the limits of some possibilities, that they are still still doing some work. And by this law we give them a huge segment that they must implement so that it can be realized. Therefore, although this bill says no additional funding will be needed, I think it should certainly be pawned if not in the rebalancing of a budget which is obviously not going to be provided, at least in the 2006 budget, with the means to make it possible for this law to be implemented, so that the State Inspectorate is allowed to satisfy what we believe should be realised by this Law. Today we are talking about black economy, gray economy, black market, black employment, etc. That's one problem. However, what I think is a much bigger problem is the problem of protecting workers who work and are not paid for it even under the Labour Law. Again, a public debate is being held on whether, who should, and how to work on Sundays. I personally believe that if only the Labour Act were applied as he writes it should be paid on Sundays, let alone if the provisions of the city collective agreements for activities that work today were applied so that more than half of the employers would say that they would not be paid for it and that already more than half of the employers working on Sundays would close their service, primarily service activities, and production and other work on Sundays, because they could not simply pay the workers who had to pay under the Labour Act and collective, collectively. Today you have a situation to turn out that in large trade chains, that in catering, in tourism, workers work according to what they have been paid, the only paid first shift and only on a working day. Our workers don't seem to be doing second shifts, so they don't have shifts, they don't have night jobs, they don't have overtime, they don't have Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. They do, but they're not paid for it. And that is why it is good that such a provision is incorporated into this Law that the State Inspectorate can now control it. What I wonder is whether it is possible to achieve cooperation between other institutions within the system to make it a single automation. Because it's impossible for a caterer to come pay his salary, hand over forms in REGOS, submit tax returns to the tax administration, and only minimum salaries will be recorded there and at the same time we know that he reported hours from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. after midnight. Therefore, institutions such as REGOS should react, warn inspectorates, inspectorates, then some automation, control what happens to, who does the second shift, who does it for 10 hours, who does it on Saturdays and Sundays, and why if someone does it and does not own it, is not fairly paid for it. Unfortunately, I know of a situation of a domestic trade chain that forced workers to sign statements that only work eight hours a day even though they worked 10 to 12 hours. Which the employer was covered when the state inspectorate control came to him, the union reported the employer and the employer gave nice statements to the workers and said gentlemen so they themselves said they were working eight hours. Almost all trade chains thus verify workers, do not pay them overtime, do not pay them shifts and pay them no wages for what they do on Saturdays and Sundays. Even this Labour Act is very precise. Our Labour Act said how much overtime should be a week. Therefore, it is impossible for employers with this number of applicants to organise work in working hours, it is the same situation, so it is impossible for someone to work every day from 6 to 9 a.m., a large trade chain and a Saturday and Sunday with the number of workers they reported. Obviously, there's a big and serious problem somewhere. Unfortunately, when we discussed the Law on Public Procurement, I suggested that provisions be incorporated into that Law, such as the provisions of Article 19 of this Law today, so that provisions should be incorporated so that they could not be paid out of the state budget, i.e. from public companies an employer who does not respect a collective contract, which does not respect the Labour Act, which employs foreigners on black, etc., etc. Minister Shuker then told me it is contrary to the European Union guidelines. But I ask the question, here it is said that so, that the employer who does it, will be disabled his work for 30 days. I'm now asking what, for example, hypothetically what will happen if any of the Hep cooperatives are caught in a situation like this. Are we gonna shut down HEP for 30 days? He's also an employer. What will happen to some ministry that will order for example the construction of a school and it is determined that the construction company that received the job violates these provisions, the provisions of this Act, will we close the work of this Ministry? Or will the state again be in a privileged relationship with other private employers? What concerns me here, i.e. I ask myself how it has been possible so far, for example to carry out a job or a business activity in no, not in areas that do not meet the conditions of protection at work but in areas that are illegally built. So we're talking about renting apartments here. Gentlemen, you have at sea, you have as many shops and catering facilities on the coast as you want which are in buildings that have no building permit, which are built in a space that is not in the building zone. And someone gave permission and worked people there. And what are we going to do now, close it down, that store due to minimum technical conditions? How could he even get minimum technical conditions if he didn't have a valid permit? What will happen to a number of buildings that have a building permit but which are not built in accordance with the building permit so that they do not have a valid permit? Or an object or some business space inside that facility? Now the inspectors here are involved in the process of issuing a building permit and we need to see if it's in accordance with the Construction Act, if they can take advantage of such a possibility. But what happens to buildings and buildings and public buildings, gentlemen? Well, we have schools that don't have a valid license. And they don't have a valid license because they didn't pass the technical exam. We have a hospital that doesn't have a valid license, we have a bus station that doesn't have a valid license. Are we going to say that there, there, we're going to shut down the gentlemen's school for 30 days if they don't, it won't be possible?- I'm sorry. And in the end, it can't just be a beating, it needs to be a little carrot. The government abolished incentives for employment and was obliged to give a new plan, an action plan, by September 30th. It's not there! We gentlemen won't contain the grey and black economy for as long as the unemployed are willing to work for the mail as we say or for a drop of milk, when they're going to do anything for any money because they need it to feed their family. Only when the offer of jobs is greater than that of demand, therefore, the offer of workers will we be able to influence this to curb the grey economy and, of course, when it significantly strengthens the union scene and not when our unions will be in order that workers can no longer protest in Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44965	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44966	The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The Rules of Procedure which apply to all of us equally in this Croatian assembly, I am correcting Mr. Mršić's incorrect allegations that he will need to provide additional funds for the implementation of this law. That's incorrect. In fact, the inspectors will only be given powers to sanction all these areas that we've been talking about. Thank you very much, President Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44967	Replica, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44968	Here's what you'd be replicating my colleague, Mr. Lobster, for the sake of further clarification. It's true what you said is that there are a lot of objects that are open without construction, without administrative permission, in areas where construction is not allowed, etc. But because it was possible to do so under the Law of Turning at one time, because according to the Law of Turnings it was said that the facility could be opened, it would be allowed to meet the minimum technical conditions if it had only proof of the possession of space or lease of space, and that everything else was the previous question that the previous services had to establish. Now it's not possible, because there are certain laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44969	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44970	The colleagues here are not about crafts, so we also have companies that work in spaces, companies that are in areas that are not without minimum technical conditions but are illegally built, they need to be torn down, and some county services and public administration offices gave minimum technical conditions to such facilities, yes. I'm not talking about that right now I don't know, now we're gonna do a miracle. The question is, how was that even possible? How it is possible to teach in a school that does not have a valid permit, since it is also a work where employee safety is at risk, since it may not meet, for example, working protection conditions. We have a huge number of objects without a valid permit where activities normally take place. Now, this here will be sanctioned by the State Inspectorate, but then I ask the same question, who is responsible for allowing the activity to take place in an illegally built facility. Who predicted all that was to be done by a construction inspection who was to issue a warrant for the destruction of buildings to a state administration office that was to react and say that an illegally built facility could not have a lease contract. Well, that's perfectly normal, isn't it? And one more question to update here. Hence, Article 2 says that, therefore, it will protect working hours, wages and employment, and the work of minors, women, pregnant women, maternity parents, and disabled people, and the like. Now I'm asking where the men are. Are the men under here "like" and what men in this "like" look like? Here's what I think we should have put "workman" in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44971	Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44972	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Chief Inspector, ma'am, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So at the beginning of my debate today, I have to look a little bit at the discussions that have been held so far and find that many of the colleagues of the MPs and MPs have made little of a mistake in holding this debate in the past, because they have often criticised the Labour Act and the problems solved through the Labour Act, which is being resolved through collective agreements, which are being settled through all other institutions, but not through this Inspectoral Service Act. I see here and a affirmative nod by the head of the Chief State Inspector, because many things are freely said in critical tones according to today's government, according to the Government of Ivo Sanader in a way that criticises the Labour Act itself and all those relationships that go through this Labour Act. So I would like this debate to return to the scale of things, which is this Law on the inspection services and everything that goes through this law, and I have to say that in many things it is very well addressed, that in many things one big step in progress in solving the problem of gray and black economic activity. It is also necessary to indicate that there is both grey and black economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The grey economic activity is in my opinion where there are registered activities and registered whether entrepreneurs, craftsmen, whether small businesses or enterprises, but not respected in all, means in all measures, activities, the set, means all laws and positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. But there is also a black economic activity, which is in the part where it's done wildly that we call it without any applications, without any solutions, without any possibility that this person who deals with such an economic activity and gives and pays to the state what he should, and these are taxes and contributions. I must, given that I am familiar with many things in the entrepreneurial world, say that in these things they predominate the activities that are mainly produced in the construction work, that they predominate activities in service activities, in catering and in commercial activities. In service activities, it does not need to be mentioned much the same as in manufacturing that, in construction, it means that in some parts of the final work, installing works, many times dealing with and doing things with unreported workers, the employer takes another employer into a sublet that has no registered workers, they are then sought each other by construction sites with the labour inspector who is responsible for which the worker and there is a big confusion and simply an excitation of all legal and positive legal regulations. Also, we do not talk about service activities that are part of the meaning of repair, mechanical, etc. etc. I believe that these proposed amendments and additions to the law must be supported absolutely by all MPs because I believe that we all had opportunities in our lives to pay for some of the services to this day let's call it masters, installers, co-workers that I don't speak some other activities, which ultimately did not give us an account for it. So we have to go right from us, together, all of us go into it together and look for an account for every service because that way we'll best prevent gray, means economic activity. The State Inspectorate will be the best solution to black economic activity through this bill. And that is why I must welcome some provisions, and in particular the provisions relating to closing down on a certain deadline, means economic objects or banning the availability of goods in these economic facilities, because these are the possibilities in which, through one repressive way, even in the entrepreneurial world, in the world of the economy, they will still fear that because of such opportunities, because of the reduction of profits, I would replicate my fellow Stazic, who said that because of three undeclared employees, a hundred other workers will be without a job. He doesn't care about the owner of the chain of commerce. He doesn't care about these three or these tables. He's interested in profit. And if he is banned for three months, for 30 days, then at that point he will be very careful not to come on such an occasion. I believe that this Law, along with the Financial Police Act, is one of the real examples and parts of the Croatian Democratic Community programme, which through, said that through a reduction, an increase in income will also be possible to reduce the tax burdens of employers and I hope that it will be in this sequence and develop the meaning of the economic policy of this today's government led by our Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. It is also a proof of the credibility of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, unlike my ex who did not have the courage to deal with such black and grey economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44973	Thank you. Replications. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. First.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44974	So you see a colleague I think is a worker who can't exercise his rights no matter who's to blame? Ex-wife, this one or some future government. But I didn't get the impression that this is where it's being discussed, the former and current government, and here yesterday, and today all the time, it's been imposed that by 2000 it was probably well-being. So in 2000, there was a flood. So then in 2003, a "cruiser" came to solve all this. This is obviously some sort of continuity that goes on and on and on, nothing in society can happen over three and a half years or four years, but for all of us as representatives of citizens, it must be important that those laws that we bring here to determine such a system that they apply. Unfortunately, we have a situation of flagrant violation of the Labour Act. Our union scene is not powerful enough to ensure the application of only the Labour Act, let alone the application of collective agreements, which would again be our interest as a constitutionally defined social state that at least the Gran collective agreements apply. Well, then we're thinking that we're not supposed to ban someone from working Sundays, and we're not going to ban someone from working Sundays, but also someone we're not going to ban from doing Sundays, so we're not going to make them apply the collective contract and, and the Labour Act, and that's going to pay fair and square for the workers to work on Sundays. But I think it would be a good idea if I instead of talking about what is the former or some former government because I guess before 2000, some governments were the same. Either it was, or all the accident started in 2000 only with the coalition government. So instead, to talk about how to protect the poor workers who work and receive minimum wages in this Croatia and thus cannot ensure a decent life for themselves and their family.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44975	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44976	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, colleague Mršić. We're, I'm just the one sentence I said about... The former governments in relation to today's government, but it is a fact that I have replicated to you in part that we have talked about the Labour Act, and today the subject of the debate is this Law on the inspection service and the State Inspectorate and the meagreness of how through the Inspectorate Act we make all possibilities and assumptions that are being punished and that all laws and positive regulations are implemented in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't believe and I'm not sure that there are many companies, in many companies, in many companies breaking the Labour Law, but it is solved through problems and through debate and we will settle through debate when it comes to the agenda means the Labour Act and all those relationships that go from this Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44977	Second replica. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44978	Thank you very much. Mr. President, a colleague of Plesko has resented all his colleagues and colleagues who mentioned the Labour Act in their debate, a collective contract. And that was the wrong direction to argue. You see, it would be a lot easier for me to discuss this Bill proposal if the government had written in the light of the law that this Law was the subject of discussion on the Economic and Social Council and that the social partners supported this proposal entirely but we don't know anything about it if you don't ask them if you've discussed it? The government never informs us about the position of social partners within the institution that was founded for this? And we keep looking for it, and it keeps avoiding writing it. Secondly, Article 2 of this Law is the essence of the work of Croatia. For example, the Labour Act and the collective contract regulate the area of wages and Article 2 of this Act says that the inspector will control it. A collective contract on the lowest salary in this country stipulates that he is 2 thousand 80 kuna now. 43,000 workers were paid less than that, and I didn't hear that one application from the State Inspectorate was filed for payment of such salaries. They're authorized to control that collective contract. That's why we're talking about it. Work on Sundays. The inspection service has its own time. The Civil Service Act and the collective contract work eight hours a day. Not on Sundays. Work should be monitored on Sundays, not Mondays, based on written statements by employees who are forced to sign. And finally in a private home home for older people. Placed 50 people. One of them dies and my wife reports that her husband was there. No inspector could enter the house and open the facts because he had no board that he had a home for the elderly. These are the failures that even this bill will not end... And that's why we're calling on these laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the debate was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44979	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44980	Thank you. Dear colleague Lesar, I did not object, but I wanted to make it clear that more time in the debate is devoted to the meaning of this Law, this legislation, these amendments and additions, and that through the additions, it is seen through the debate whether there is still any possibility that the amendment could be upgraded and improved to make this legislation much more quality. But speaking of certain matters, I must also remind myself of the fact that Article 6 of this proposal states under point 5: "The inspectors of the State Inspectorate are required to carry out inspection surveillance on the orders of a senior officer for longer than full-time hours." Practically, it gives the possibility that inspection supervision by order should be carried out both on Saturdays and Sundays and any day. So this is far more positive, far greater possibilities for inspection services that will be in the future thanks to this Bill of Law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia with Dr. Eva Sanader at the head who gave this bill in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44981	Thank you. Third replica, respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44982	A colleague of Pleška is obviously not very interested, he is not concerned about the fate of those workers who may suffer damage when punishment or safeguard measures are imposed by the provisions of this Act on a large trade chain because the inspector has found 5 undeclared workers. So they'll give a measure of at least three months' labour ban, maybe up to a year's worth. I spoke in my presentation about what would happen to the other 500, 1000, 1500 workers working in the company and that they could lose their jobs because of it. You say, "That owner of the trade chain doesn't care about these 3 or those 1500." So why do I care if he doesn't care? I'm worried. And it would be good for you to worry, too. And it would be good for the government to worry, too. So when he proposes measures that sound so popularly good to see what the consequences of these measures are? And how can such repressive measures be carried out to protect workers? And not by punishing the employer to punish the workers and not only those who are unreported but also those who are properly declared. That's what this law lacks. And there's a little more sense. A little more engagement. A little more care for the worker could fix this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44983	Replica response, distinguished representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44984	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Stazic, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Inspectorate. The basic basis of today's debate was how to make the conditions for there to be as few violations as possible in the future of positive regulations. That's the first and the most basic thing. Thus, through and through repressive closure measures must be initiated towards entrepreneurs, according to the businessmen, the possibilities for them to start thinking about how they will act economically in the future. If you have, looking from the position of entrepreneurs, looking from the position of businessmen, means above yourself, as the people say "beach" that will kick you on the back if you break the rules, then you will certainly not break those regulations. And for this reason, I believe that it will not happen that the company that works well will even think about having 3 undeclared workers and that it will not come into the future because of this positive regulation on the occasion that we have a company of 100 employees of 3 undeclared workers. Because all those businessmen and owners of these companies will think about their profits. As they have so far thought and as they will think in the future because they are owners or directors and think exclusively about profit, and do not think or think very little about the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44985	And the fourth replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44986	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Pleško, the illusion that the repression of the inspector will resolve the grey economy, especially when the inspectors' measures hit almost more workers than entrepreneurs, will simply not accept citizens as a fact. It is more worth modernising Croatian railways than 10 inspections. Unfortunately, she's gone. It's worth 100 jobs more than the great powers of inspection. Therefore, we must take care of the effects of repression and punishment. They mostly switch to workers, they mostly switch to workers, and then we say that the state is powerless because it doesn't solve the causes. New jobs are not being opened, state records are not being modernised, and the inspection is trying to solve the major social problem of the gray economy. He won't. And the law itself is correct in trying to resolve the powers of the inspection. Nothing more. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44987	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44988	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Leko. I will now come out of the debate for the first time, so from the subject of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Inspectorate and I am going to the Transport Safety Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44989	You won't get out, fellow advocate, but you'll stay on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44990	Okay, I'm staying in the dark, but I'm responding in a different way. And that's, then, if we had a fine of 50 kuna for not fastening the belt, no one tied up. Now that the fine is 500 kuna, we're all tied up. The use of a cell phone, which can also be applied in this case, means legal repressive possibilities for law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44991	Thank you. Final review, Chief Inspector of State Inspectorate Kruno Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44992	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you all for very constructive suggestions and discussion. I'd just like to say a few more words. We are a system of 950 people, we are one of the 28 inspections that other than us exist in Croatia. Maybe we've made a package of measures that the government, which is government is carrying out one step so we're here first. However, I am happy in the end that we have one consensus of all political parties, which is to the extent that inspectors are still given greater authority in their actions. We've received part of the amendment, and we'll respond to them in due time. Thank you again for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44993	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on this proposal for a final law. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Inspectorate. The SDP and HSU Representatives' Club proposed that this bill was discussed in the first reading and that, accordingly, all objections, proposals and opinions were made to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion. You can vote. The result? For conclusions 29, abstentions 5, 62 against. So the conclusions were not accepted. Let's vote on amendments to the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44996	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment to Article 11(1) of MP Pera Kovacevic shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44997	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second amendment of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44998	The amendment to article 11 of MP Nikola Vuljanić is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u44999	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Third, Vice-President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45000	The amendment to Article 11(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council shall be published in the Official Journal of Darka Milinovic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45001	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth, MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45002	The amendment to Article 15(2) of MP Mirjana Brnadic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45003	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth, HNS's Club of Representatives, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45004	Amendment to Article 15 The HRS representative's club PGS is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45005	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Sixth, MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45006	The amendment to article 15 of MP Pera Kovacevic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45007	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The seventh, amendment of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45008	The amendment to Article 15 of Parliament, Mršić, is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45009	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eighth, MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45010	The amendment to Article 15 of MP Željko Pavlica is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45011	It becomes an integral part of the law. The ninth, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45012	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45013	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. And the tenth, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45014	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45015	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eleventh, MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45016	The amendment to article 19 of MP Pera Kovacevic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45017	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the 12th, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45018	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45019	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. To pass this law, a majority of the votes of all MPs are required, so at least 77 votes are in favour. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 96 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed law was passed to the text as accepted by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. We have one proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Tourism which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a proposal for a new Law on Hostage Activity to the Croatian Assembly by the end of this year. I'm asking the State Inspector to show himself on the proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45021	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but the motion is for the Ministry of Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45022	No, that is, he is proposing this conclusion of the Tourism Committee. ... Yeah, you're not authorized to read the proposal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45023	Yeah, I'm not authorized.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45024	On behalf of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45025	On behalf of the Tourism Committee. Here with colleagues from the board, we find that the board didn't suggest it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45026	That the board didn't propose? On 28 September 2005, the Committee on Tourism for the President of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of the debate held, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of the majority of votes 6 for and 3 votes abstentions, to adopt this law with the following conclusion: "It is binding on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit by the end of this year to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a new Law on Attending Activity and has appointed the rapporteur of the Committee President Ante Markov". And you're saying it's not, that the board has reached that conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45027	We voted for this bill, but the board's conclusion wasn't what stood here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45028	You didn't vote for the board's conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45029	Or so he wasn't engaged at the moment, the president doesn't have any regrets, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45030	I will postpone the vote on this proposal's conclusion until the actual state of play is determined. Postponing the vote on this proposal. If part of the board claims that he did not vote for that conclusion, then I cannot put him to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we would now move on to the topic yesterday at the extended Parliament Presidency, which was established on - the proposal for a declaration under the Law on the Protected Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Belt, which was adopted by the Slovenian Parliament on 4 October 2005. Yesterday, he was at the extended Bureau of Parliament with the presidents and representatives of all clubs of parliamentary parties other than the Independent Representatives' Club. First, the established working group that drawn up the draft declaration after the working group consensually established the draft declaration. It substrated it to the extended Parliament presidency again and was unanimously adopted by the draft declaration. And as a proposal for a declaration by all clubs of parliamentary parties and the Croatian Parliament Presidency except for this loss, which is indicated that the Club of Independent Representatives who was not named and participated in the work is directed to the Croatian Assembly for discussion and adoption. With one agreement also being reached that only club representatives participate in the debate. So I'm opening up that debate with the club representatives. The first is for the SDP Club, the respected representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45032	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The interesting feature of Croatian-Slovenian relations is that they have developed despite the fact that we have not been able to find lasting solutions to some of the problems followed by the two countries. With every problem solved, however, the remaining ones were becoming more and more horrified. Certainly the most famous, the most hard-line problem is the issue of stretching the state border. The resolution of border issues between our countries began practically on the first day of independence in 1991. During the entire 15-year period, it was sometimes more and sometimes less burdensome with each other. The initial requirement of Slovenia that the Slovenian territorial sea must be touched with the open sea and that that country belongs to the entire Piran Bay aquarium made it impossible to agree on the entire state border regardless of the continued closeness of many other interests. The most reprehensible expression of these aspirations was and remained the 1993 Piran Bay Memorandum. And this latest document of similar profile and political inspiration was also produced in the same place in the Slovenian Parliament. That is why it is important today and here, right here in the Croatian Parliament to challenge the political importance of the Law on the Protected Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Belt voted as I said in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 4 October this year. Its legal, international legal value will be passed in another place. I hope not in the far future. Today, the Croatian-Slovenian border dispute is unfortunately one of the few, if not the only active border opposition of the European Union with a European state at the stage of negotiations on full membership. However, the European Union is the Slovenian present, but only the Croatian future. Therefore, but not just for this reason, it is primarily a battle for the acquisition of European political expertise and for every other public. Croatia must neither enter an inferior nor defensive position at the start of the negotiation process. The perception that the European Union is importing some serious border problems with Croatia in favour of the idea that it really gets extra value. The results of last year's Slovenian parliamentary elections signalled the possibility that not only did the left-to-right voter support move, but that a period of recent Slovenian history ended. Great tasks, such as the country's entry into the European Union and NATO, have been accomplished and have been estimated to have matured in Slovenian citizens that the time has come to thank the protagonists who led the process. Janez Jansa, to remind me, was the first prime minister elected in the elections following Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The move of political furniture from the 1990s to the opposition raised the question of whether there would be a more sensitive change in Slovenian politics towards Croatia. Today we know that's not the case. Regardless of the party or the world-wide coincidences and the warm atmosphere of the so-called so-called atmosphere. historical sessions of the two governments, the real content of foreign policy is always determined by promoting national interests as the political leadership of a country sees them. In so many respected colleagues and colleagues, an agreement on avoidance of incidents is unnecessary if no policy is conducted that encourages or tolerates incidents. The establishment of a joint Historical Commission is also a long-standing vision of the mirror of Croatian-Slovenian relations, while far more serious processes take place in front of the windscreen. Instead of such procedures, it would be better to explore how to finally reduce the elements of the state of emergency in our relations. I think it is most productive to conclude the 15th anniversary of several failed bilateral attempts to solve border problems, to open the possibility for Croatia and Slovenia to join an international legal body of proven credibility and commit themselves to respect and apply the verdict of the same. Everything else is a waste of time. In particular, it would be harmful for one small country to blackmail another European Union. We should encourage the European Union, and we should not be blackmailing each other. The European Union is the most successful economic one in Europe's overall history, because the reasons for the conflict between large and small countries have turned it into meeting points and cooperation. I don't see any reason why this success doesn't confirm again Slovenia and Croatia. I really hope that today's agenda item of the Parliament is one of the last discussions on the braking of relations between the two neighbouring countries so directed towards each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45033	Thank you very much. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45034	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Clearly, the IDS supports the declaration and we will vote for it. However, I would start this speech with a statement by Monsignor Bozanić recently in Slovenia when he said "Croatians and Slovenians are brothers". And indeed, I am ready to repeat this dict: "Croatians and Slovenians are brothers.". Slovenia has sent several messages to Croatia in the last 7 days. She sent two positive messages, which is that she ratified that double tax avoidance agreement that tangled nearly 14 thousand Croatian pensioners and supported Croatia in Luxenburg. However, I must say myself that I am deeply unhappy with the subsequent development of events between Croatia and Slovenia regarding their announcement of the epicontinental belt. It is absurd even that our relations today, for example with Serbia, with which we fought better with Slovenia until yesterday. To be clear, we need good relations with all of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia, Italy and Hungary, etc., especially with neighbours. All open issues, especially the border should be resolved bilaterally, unless it goes clearly differently, then with the help of the third. And it's probably more than promising, it's not said that recently Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have closed all border issues at a border of over a thousand and 100km. To go back to Slovenia. The act of the Slovenian Parliament from the other day, by my court, is inconclusive, for Croatia offensive, for common sense unacceptable. But I don't want to use strong rhetoric, I don't want to talk about paper anexia, even if it's part of the truth. I don't want to, like some of our colleagues, send the Navy to the Piran Bay, because Peter could get into that bay, but Kresimir is very difficult, that's insane. As is the ludicrous Slovenian act of declaring the epicontinental belt. It is good that the military has no business, or even better to use the unemployed army in, say, cleaning the lateral channels across Croatia. It is also good that we have demilitarized the entire border in Istria, as well as around the Piran Bay, which will be no less Croatian if we call it Piranski or Savudrija wave, as it seems in the last 7, 8 years. Part of that bay is undeniably Croatian, as far as the third one should decide, but until it is done, the middle line has to be bordered. What would be best if no one defends the Slovenes from the open sea, as well as the strong development of the Kopar port in the last 10 years. They have exceeded the Rijeka port by 3.4 times, they have exceeded the Trstian port where the Slovenians even bought some of their space for their needs. So, it would be best if, in accordance with the ad act's fishing agreement, the demarcation were to be placed, meaning to freeze that demarcation for 10 or 15 years, and in this new light for 10 or 15 years when some new political generations set a border line on the political scenes of Croatia and Slovenia. Clearly, the Croatian Parliament was put before the final act by a Slovenian decision on the epicontinental belt and it is clear that the Croatian Parliament must react. He must react in the way the government proposes and seeks arbitration and the same, as President Sanader told the speaker yesterday that any arbitration decision for Croatia has to be implemented afterwards in the Republic of Croatia. It is a basic message that must be sent to both the local and Slovenian public. Croatia, meaning as a serious country that is in the interest of good neighbouring countries, will respect an arbitration decision or a decision by a competent court and must not be slow to do so. However, I am interested in what relations will then be, that is, the decision, and we will not reach it in 4, or 5 years, or perhaps even 10 years from now, to rule at the Croatian-Slovenian border. No matter what, I want Croatia ahead of the neighbourhood. Croatians and Slovenians have huge interests, trade in goods, Mr. Mastruko, who was an ambassador to Slovenia above a billion dollars. Croatia exports to Slovenia $500m, Slovenia imports or exports to Croatia a billion dollars. Slovenians are our third guests by number. The revenue from sea tourism or on the Alps exceeds 700 million dollars. So it is a huge interest because every day 20 thousand Croatian or Slovenian citizens go to work working on goods exported to Croatia or Slovenia. I also stress that Croatia should not kneel before anyone. Especially when someone touches this national pride, however, we must lead the most honest policy of good neighbouring countries because, on the one hand, the Croatian-Slovenian border on the one hand lives almost 500 thousand people on the other. I'm also afraid for the future of relations in Istria. Which is exactly what those little people who live by the border could have the most damage tomorrow. These people have always been directed at each other and it doesn't matter if they are Croats, Slovenians, Italians? All of them were Istrians until some strange people came and started to disturb you. One Yosko Joras or one bishop are not from Istria, as some of our noisers do not understand the mentality of those Istrian spaces that may have come best, this shared co-existence that may have been best expressed in the People's Liberation War. I am glad that President Sanader mentioned Tito yesterday after this speaker: "We will not give ours" because if it hadn't been for NOB and Tito today, we would not have discussed it either in Croatian or in the Slovenian parliament. Even though it's a huge mortgage, in 1954, almost 70 to 80% of the Italian population went from that space. I'll say that too. I was probably of all in Istria most engaged when Croatian-Slovenian relations were in the wake of opening the Istrian bank, the Istrian brewery in Buzet, which was closed by the Slovenians and in defining Croatian-Slovenian ownership of the "Cimos" which is today certainly the most technologically superior factory that exports to Croatia 50 million dollars. Personally, with opposition from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kolec has signed a concession for the farming of shellfish in Piran Bay, or he will tell Savudrija vala. Me and Fattyyuh have done everything we can to pave the way for, water and so forth, those four villages: Mlinic, Doliny, Buzin and Shrill, and there are no problems. Problems arise next to the house of Josak Joras which floor, with a smile I call the largest Croatian ally. Why? Because until he got into that nationalist car, he sought his legal protection before a court in Bujam, or for a building permit, he addressed the authorities, local authorities in Bujam. And I'm also saying that I stopped Fatty from paraphrasing a hectare around Joras' house in 2001 so that the demarcation scandal would be complete, and maybe if we'd seen those cards at sea, it would have been different. Finally, I am also prepared to tell the fishermen: Your gentlemen are not to lead foreign or domestic policy. It's yours to fish. But it is up to this government to ensure that they can do so uninterruptedly in the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia and it is clear that it allows them to do so normally. I understand our fishermen, too. I even accept their political engagement, but with the fact that with the help of the Istrian County, there are 150 fishermen there today. Ten years ago there were 70 of them, and all the problems in the bay began when the Slovenian police usurped her rights and began harassing our fishermen who when they were immersed, they spoke to me for help and credit or when they asked for the opening of the crafts to the County of Istria, which is perfectly normal. It is clear that every exit, and I would like to highlight the Slovenian fishermen across the middle line in Piran Bay, is nothing more than the provocation of the Slovenian authorities more precisely, because our fishing fleet, which is minor to their true giant. What have the Slovenians done now? They withdrew the boundaries of the epicontinental belt on the basis of 1996 or 1997 "SOPS". It was signed by Mate Granic, who correctly advises some parties today, but it bothers me when he seeks to radicalise opportunities in those areas. Mr Racan has reduced the boundaries of this "SOPS" to the space of the Lovričica Isola or 4 or 5 times. A few sentences and land. Everything on this side of St. Hodorica has to be Croatian. That was also on the day 25.6.1991. The judicial, administrative, police, administrative authority was headed from Buje. The truth of one of the principles was the one in 1990, 1991. The piranhas or catastrian municipalities, which was then the catastrian municipality of Piran, but I repeat, the stronger power is the one from Buje and it must not be disputed. It's even that it traded with that space in 1991 for a weapon and it's lucky that Jansa didn't agree to that then. It is important, however, that today the Croatian authorities stop these provokings of Joras and so on on land that were tolerated by the Slovenian police in 2003 or 2004 when the kilometre columns were created. This authority must show its authority. It is also true that "SOPS" today in those provisions 42 to 47 if I am not mistaken is no longer applicable but the policy of these customs relations at these premises applies. Because these people in these villages have a special duty-free status, but that does not mean that someone can ignore the authorities of the Croatian state. What we must also direct to the Slovenian public that the property of every Slovenian legal or natural person will remain protected as well as any other owner, owner in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but that this Slovenian citizen or Slovenian legal person has to comply with Croatian laws on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and what they do Škof, Joras and so on cannot tolerate Croatia. Counterproductive is also on the Croatian side of calling for the Dragonja border. It just doesn't stand because on the day 25.6.1991, That's what Badinter's lesson there was not. Applying to that border is nothing more than what Slovenians do at sea. One verbal anexia versus one paper annexion, and that's not how good neighborhood policy works. So what do we have to do? We have to send a message that clearly no one is trading with ours, they won't. That's this declaration and it should be voted on. Secondly, for us, the principle of demarcation in Badinter "Conditio sine qua non" on the sea border should be withdrawn. It should be determined, until the border is done, there must be a line of the middle. Until that happens, let the fishing agreement be clearly applied. That's what I'm putting an accent on. Croatia is clear for arbitration. There is nothing to be afraid of and will respect any decision by the arbitration officer and Croatia is for the best relations to Slovenia. Unfortunately, these relationships today are not appropriate. They're not measured. And what Croatia needs to do to protect fishermen, the Slovenians cannot move on our territory, and that is where the state should stand in the protection of our fishermen. Good examples are how these relationships should be solved, say, and what was yesterday in Buzet. The meeting of the Buzet and Koper mayors agreeing on a joint appearance towards the European Union or their access funds or some of the problems that arise along that border. In the end, I will again conclude this statement by speech of the bishop or monsignor of the archbishop of Zagreb Bozanić, that the Croats and Slovenians are brothers, so if we are brothers, then let's really try to agree, finally and brothers sometimes go when the "heritage" is under the third. There is no such thing as quoting the chronology that these disputes have been found, although it is certain that it bothers that in one document 93 in that famous memorandum, Slovenians say they cannot declare an exclusive economic zone on the Adriatic without doing so today. All in all, I think it should be rational, sober, I think that this conclusion, an apology declaration on that road, and that Croatia responds adequately to such an act, but no matter what, with all the fear of relations along the border, because when something happens, people in Istria will address me not to you, they need to lead the ultimate policy of good neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45035	Thank you. The HNS PGS Club is a respected representative of Ivica Mastruko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45036	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will not talk about history and all these aspects of Croatian Slovenian relations because I do not think this debate is open today. I must say with satisfaction that the Government has made one step and that the Parliament has made this declaration when we accept this active role of the Government accepts and confirms it. It's about being at all levels so far, meaning from local associations, fishing associations, professional associations of parties, and our government played one reactive role, we reacted to the initiatives of others. THAT WE WERE expressing our anger or that we were talking about Joras, that we were protesting that we were expressing dissatisfaction, that we were sending notes, that we were pulling ambassadors or something, we didn't have an initiative but we were reacting to some decisions. In contrast, from these reactions to the actions of others in this declaration, it seems to me that for the first time in its conclusion we are taking a concrete initiative, or we consider, to be a solution to disputes against international judicial authorities. It is now in Slovenia that it is evident about our initiative and, of course, that it is reacting. I must point out that we fully support the presentation of yesterday's Prime Minister where he clearly pointed out the fact that bilateral relations were separated, disputes from disputes that we have about some concrete problems, the position of Slovenia, which it expressed at all these last meetings, by supporting the reception of Croatia's negotiations as a candidate for the European Union, and to point out once again that this is the behaviour of the Government of Slovenia and Slovenia in full to thank us for that. Secondly, I wanted to point out that this declaration does not reject a possible agreement, possible continuation of the talks, that we are always open to finding a solution but I would also clearly like to warn the Government on this occasion that we cannot and should not accept the conversation on the epi-continental belt, on the economic belt and on the borders at the same time. We want, we want, we want and we need to negotiate demarcation, we need to negotiate the boundaries, and the epi-continental belt, the economic belt is always the result of this demarcation, they're actually going to prove to be a groundless debate if we make a right and good distinction. Thirdly, if we do not come within a reasonable period of time to one agreed solution to the separation at sea, it might be good for the government to consider another initiative, a new initiative, which is that, following this formal proposal that we support our Declaration, to draw up a draft proposal, which means the text of a bilateral agreement on arbitration or a different judicial procedure, and to refer the text as a proposal, as a draft, to the Slovenian government, i.e. the Slovenian side. We actually have a continuous initiative. The fourth seems to me to be a good thing in this Declaration, and we should discuss what we are avoiding difficult words, which we are avoiding arguing tone and what the text is meant to say in accordance with good diplomatic attitudes and European policy on peaceful dispute resolution. I believe that our approach with respect will be welcomed, graciously accepted by the international community. Finally, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the HNS PGS Club will support the proposed text of the declaration with its votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45037	Thank you very much. The club of HNS DC LS representatives respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45038	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As stated by the Declaration that is before us the Slovenian spell and the Slovenian document is meaningless and so difficult that it can earn our serious debate and serious political reference to this act, to what is pointless has often become a source of great evil in history and what may seem to us to be legally void, baseless and completely pointless and even below the level of criticism can in reality become quite dangerous, it may seem devastating, not so perhaps to the actions of the entire community, collective actions and principles of action, but certainly to the lives of small and ordinary citizens, mainly those living in border areas or in those territories where the two countries meet, touch. I would not like to withdraw historical parallels, but I think that a little bit of what people in history have felt in their own skin that senseless legal acts that are against common sense can be very dangerous and that they are actually taking action, conflict, and even all the wars, so I think that despite our very clear and accurate assessment that this is an internationally unfounded act of law, we should be careful. On the one hand, collective frustrations should be avoided and hysteria should be avoided around one act which is one-sided and one of the acts of the Slovenian Parliament that will not withdraw any international legal or internal legal consensus, but on the other hand should be aware that such acts can cause a lot of difficulties, for example, can only be said picturesquely in the encounter of our and Slovenian fishermen, if Slovenian citizens or Slovenian fishermen would indeed consider or think that they are sailing or fishermen in the epi-continental belt declared by the Slovenians. Of course, it is the most important thing to avoid such possible conflicts. They've been at a level of minor conflicts, charms, encounters so far. However, it is quite certain that we will not avoid it by calling ourselves here quite contradictoryly as Damir Cain. At the same time, he calls for both Tito and Bozanić. I mean, that's, we're neither brothers nor we need to be brothers, we're not some kind of sibling or spiritual brothers. Some great brotherhood in the universe won't help us much, nor are we very good neighbors, which doesn't mean we don't have to become good neighbors. However, I am sure that each of us would replace at least one of our good neighbors at home in his street, so it is equally clear that calling for good neighbourly relations can help a little. Some of you just treat your neighbors and some of you have to take it. So, in order not to make good neighbourly relations good neighbourly, I think that we still need politically reasonable access to this dispute. Calling a frat or a neighborhood doesn't help much. It is clear that it is the only thing I can understand about Slovenians. And the Greek gods fought for the Mediterranean and for the Adriatic. When you read Greek mythology, you will see why they argued at Olympus who will own the Mediterranean Sea. And in that sense I can understand that Slovenians want something in any way to get either that about an open mall,... an open mall and whether it's a declared epicontinental belt and exploiting everything that's in the submersible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, on the other hand, we can very simply say that the source of Croatian rights is not even an invitation to some historical fluid source of Croatian rights, nor must our heroic history be the source of Croatian rights simply the fact that it is a Croatian epicontinental belt because, as we all know, the epicontinental belt is not declared. You just have it or you don't. It's like I would now declare that I have a right hand. You either have it or you don't have it. Therefore, Croatia has or has its own hair. Either you have an epicontinental belt or you don't have an epicontinental belt. Well, that declaration is in itself pointless. I completely agree that this is for the first time and I think it's too late but I must say that I really commend the government for such a decision, for the first time, that we have made it very clear that we are asking for help or to refer everything to the international court. I don't know why it took us 15 years. This is how we can get the impression in our public among our citizens that we have hesitated, that we have been feeding, that we have looked at possible trade when it comes to EU accession, that we have not dared because of perhaps stronger Slovenian positions within a large European family. However, it is obvious that this government, which otherwise has a strong external-political offensive, which I think is also the greatest value of it, has for the first time made it clear that it will all go to the international court in order not to deceive our public and that we will have a lot of difficulty because we all know that we will have to agree to elect an international judicial body and an international judiciary and we know that the Slovenians have already said practically in advance that they will not be subject to the court in The Hague, the International Court of Justice in The Hague or the Court of Law in Hamburg. However, I think the Croatian government thus shows that it is not inferior, that it is not waiting, that it is not fur, but that it is moving into an external political and legal offensive. What I wouldn't like to forget, I'm afraid you know we talk too often only about the Savudrian Wave and only the epicontinental belt. We have major difficulties with Slovenia when it comes to demarcation in both Međimurje County and Varazdin County, and as a representative of this area, I ask the Government not to forget, in this pro-active foreign policy, the issues of borders in my county as well as in the neighbouring counties as well as, and I must mention, certain labour rights and compensation under these labour rights of thousands of Croatian workers, mainly in the vicinity of Varazdin, Međimurje who have lost any rights in Slovenia, not to mention now saving the Ljubljanska Banka. All of these, ladies and gentlemen, are questions that we will eventually have to resolve in this way, to overcome in this way to seek the help of someone third. And that is why I think that the government should immediately consider these issues. The club of representatives of HSLS, DC and LS supports this declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45039	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have four more clubs. I suggest that we continue our work, we are in direct and transfer mode, so that in predictably at 14 o'clock I invite all MPs and MPs to vote on this declaration. I would like to ask the Honorable Representative of Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45040	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Of course, this subject that's been burdening us for 15 years can be interpreted from this pay phone in an incendiary, explosive and emotional way, but I don't think there's any particular need for that. The HSS will support this declaration for a very simple reason. We were participants in the creation of this declaration, we believe it is good and that in a dignified and clear way it has made it clear to our neighbours what I think of this Croatian Parliament at sea between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. It is good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is finally the President of the Parliament to accept the opposition party's initiative to declare this House on the latest developments and the adoption of the Law on the Protected Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Belt adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is good that we have decided to debate and that even in the name of the clubs, the Croatian public can hear what the political party thinks about this problem because simply the Croatian public has been constantly for many years and, in particular, in recent days, media burdened with various roughness, manipulations and speculations that come from the Slovenian side and the belief that Croatian authorities are being overly moderately, overly peaceful and that there is no real answer. So it is good to present this declaration that is truly good, well measured in this way. I will try not to deal with the legal aspect of this whole issue of demarcation at sea because I think this problem is exploited enough, that it is a clear enough attitude of the Croatian profession, from Professor Ibler and beyond, not to list them, they have made it very clear what they think and what right Croatia can achieve here. I'll just try to list a few I'd say political or quasi political issues that have burdened us in recent days. The first question I will ask is whether it is a coincidence that only a few hours after Croatia has obtained the status of negotiators and after it has started negotiations with the European Union, is the coincidence that the same day the Slovenian State Assembly brings this, indeed unnecessary for them and for us, the Law. I just don't believe in that coincidence. I think that, if the whole act was very carefully planned in order to speak to Croatia in the first minute, in the sport jargon, which begins negotiations with the European Union and sends a message that we will continue with the claims and continue with the pressures, of course the Slovenian side is sending it to the Croatian side. I do not know how to interpret the statement by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janša, who said very openly that it is possible, of course, to speak in this context, that it is possible that one of the parliaments of European countries that will decide on ratification, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is possible that some of the elements do not ratify this Treaty, or its declaration that Slovenia does not always have to be kind to the Republic of Croatia and its problems around the European Union. Both, I would say, are unusual statements, least of all, unusual statements for good neighbourly relations and for two countries that want to be good neighbours. And I will, of course, say in a free integration that it is, after all, an unmoderate and unusual threat to blackmail directed to the Croatian side. I think it is a very relevant question to understand this whole issue, in fact, that the Slovenian side wants such provocations, in provoking me and the adoption of this Law on the Epicontinental Belt but also of these unmeasured and disproportionate statements. I have no doubt that he wants first of all to buy time and wait for an even better position for international judicial proceedings and, on the other hand, the surprise of Minister Rupel, who said he was surprised by the Croatian side's position that the problem could still be solved bilaterally. The story of warm cold statements with which to buy time continues. And I think it's clear to them and to all of us that it's very difficult to reach some sort of agreement and that, in fact, if there's a deal, then we need to reach an agreement on who's going to judge us. I don't think this depletion just makes any sense anymore. Of course, this whole story should always be observed in a certain political context, the need for a domestic political scene. We have an accident that our election cycles and their overlap. Well then in those sinusoids then sometimes these unmoderated statements and siren calls on exclusive rights from the Slovenian side come exactly the moment when... interest of the Slovenian public because which Slovenian politician will say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think in the Slovenian public there is a far better and stronger understanding of this problem than with all Slovenian politicians. I will tell you one of my experiences that I had a few years ago enjoying the deep shade of pine trees in the Adriatic Sea in a mixed Croatian Slovenian society where my main word was led by a friend whom I will not name to not accidentally reveal myself. He's like this in one good mood, because we were on vacation, he said, well, why are you Croats so stubborn, so you have so many seas. So much must you have, so why can't you still give that one piece we're asking you to give us? I answered him also in a good mood but in a joke but also a little bit worrying that it's not a problem to give you a piece of the sea but you know you have to give us something for it. You know, we Croats are terribly jealous that you have Triglav, even with three heads, so we'd be pleased to have only the smallest, one small, half-metre particle that Croatian climbers can get to it. He's consterned, he said, so listen, it's almost an insult, so it's the national sanctity of Slovenia. I replied that, and the Adriatic Sea is the national sanctity of Croatia, we quickly agreed that there was no point in continuing, continuing this debate, some continuing to drink the gemište, some brisgauce, but we quickly realized that in a few years we would be in a position to discuss whether Triglav would go this way or that way and whether the drawing of the distinction in Piran Development would be like this or like this. Of course, both of us have thought about this time when we will be members of the European Union, but we have also made it very clear that in these stories no matter how private or official they may be, there must be no mutual insult and must not actually be at any of the acts for what is sacred to one or the other. In this situation I am asking myself an almost crucial question, it is evident that we will, after both our declarations and after the reason for which the declaration has been made, probably pass the time until some conclusion of this whole issue. What's going to happen in that interregnum. What could happen if you really tried Slovenian fishermen or Slovenian police... Try to apply this law that we today, I am quite certain of this Declaration, we pronounce nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just don't want to think about it, I don't want to think about what happens if there's some kind of a different incident in which not just fishermen and cops would participate, and God forbid another. Of course, Croatia must be sensitive to the protection of its sovereign, sovereign rights and this Law has no doubt that it has hit two fundamental sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia, it is an epicontinental belt and a protected ecological fishing zone. For this very reason, it is important that in this way, not too emotional, not too strong and to the Croatian public in this debate we tell that it is too important for the Croatian Parliament to bring this Declaration. Because the Croatian public also wants us to be responsible for this moment, with dignity, but above all, the Croatian public expects this Parliament in a very clear way to protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, according to the HSS Club, it cannot wait indefinitely for a possible response from the Slovenian Government to the diplomatic note of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was interpreted here yesterday and also cannot wait indefinitely for a possible response from the Slovenian National Assembly to our declaration in terms of our request to repeal, to annul this Law. I believe that by adopting this Declaration, the Croatian Parliament is opening up the full possibility for the Government to immediately assess what possibilities should be used according to the conventions, according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, whether it is a matter of going to the International Court in The Hague, before the International Court of Sea Law in Hamburg, whether it is an arbitration court or possibly a special arbitration court. Of course, each of us thinks in a special way, and we are aware that the trial is certainly more effective and faster than arbitration. The arbitration has so far been misused and arbitration has always been speculated so far in a way that we will agree on who we will be arbitration, whether we will agree on what will be the subject of arbitration, etc., so my party believes that if, within a very short time, some arbitration is not agreed with which we also agree, then one of these two possible international courts should be approached without any complexes. Without any complexes, we will say, there would be no, there would be no waste, and we believe that it is very appropriate for the Croatian Government to consider and apply the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of this Act to the Security Council under Articles 34 and 35. The Charter of the United Nations that was just scheduled for these cases. It's not an expression of any particular hostility, it's not an expression of any particular impatience. It is simply an expression of the desire to protect its sovereign national rights. And final. Of course, I believe that in this whole case, he should be extremely well-intentioned, but not forever. You can't wait any longer because obviously the opposite side can abuse it. Being responsible for the protection of national rights and not allowing our sovereign rights in the Adriatic Sea to be compromised in any way. The Parliament and the Government are, of course, under the light of the Croatian public who is expecting concrete moves, and that is why I think that, by adopting this Declaration, it opens up an absolute possibility for the government to be very specific, very efficient and very fast. This declaration is clear enough, giving us the opportunity for the Croatian government to move from passive to active position. The active position is very important to us in this case, because the difficulty of demarcation at sea with the Republic of Slovenia always, and this has proved to be more harmful to us than to them, which is not ultimately crucial to them. The important thing is that this situation is being resolved. And finally another important thing. Croatia needs peace and concentration at this time to conduct negotiations with the European Union, not losing the mental and physical strength of the government, of course, both the Government and the Parliament to outsmart with neighbours who are obviously, sometimes trying to direct us to this kind of infertile debate. That's why the HSS Club will support this Declaration and expect the government to be quick and efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45041	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, distinguished representative Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45042	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. In the context of the Law on the Protected Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Belt adopted by the Slovenian Parliament on 4 October 2005, we stand on the stand that no thoughts on the claims on Croatian territory from either side are taken into account either way by Slovenia. That's how we've shown it so far and we'll keep doing it. Dispute issues should be addressed in the interest of Croatian citizens, with respect and the interest of Slovenian citizens. The proposal to resolve border issues by peaceful means in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations corresponding to international conventions and that the issue of maritime demarcation should be resolved before international judicial authorities is a fair path and the Croatian Party of Retirement will support the proposal for a declaration in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45043	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45044	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Slovenian declaration of the environmental protection zone and the epicontinental belt comes as a new step, as a new provocation on the Slovenian side, just as Croatia began its negotiations with the European Union. When we discussed HSP's proposal for a resolution about relations with Slovenia about 6 months ago, no one but HSP believed that Slovenia, which many in Croatia believe will act continuously in the spirit of brotherhood and unity, would act in this way. Of course, it was completely naive because in 1993, the Slovenian Parliament brought its Memorandum of the Piran Bay to a time of the most intense struggles in Maslenica and clearly concluded that the Republic of Slovenia stands for the preservation of the integrity of the Piran Bay under its sovereignty and for the exit to the open sea. Over. So it was clear by then in 1993 that the exit to the open sea was a mythic place for every set of Slovenian policies, every set of Slovenian diplomacys, and that it would not be stopped in any way but by a clear verdict of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. No bilateral agreements can stop such a colossal of Slovenian parties' unrealistic ambitions. No bilateral smiles, handlings and statements on the avoidance of incidents or by calling for a glorious common past from 5, 10 or 45 years ago will stop a series of such internationally-legally unfounded agreements but will exclusively stop the International Court of Justice's ruling. The second thing that is indicative here is that, four years ago, when we insisted on declaring an economic belt from all sides, everyone literally convinced us that it couldn't be done unilaterally. Because that's not how good neighbors behave. Today, when Italy unilaterally declared its archaeological belt a year ago, when it is ready to unilaterally declare its ecological belt, Slovenia unilaterally declares its protective and ecological belt, I normally have to wonder why Croatia couldn't unilaterally declare its economic belt and start implementing it? As we did not start to implement it, as on 3 June 2004, we made the decision of this government and this ruling coalition a truly historic madness, allowing the economic belt to apply only to some countries but not to the flag countries of the European Union. As far as the Croatian Coast Guards are concerned, the Slovenian and other European Union vessels are sailing in the open sea, we can really get into the craziest possible situation, which is that the Slovenian patrol ship or the one they have, or the one they're just buying, is being broken down by those rubber patrolmen that our police have in the area and reaches this part of the water in the Adriatic and starts charging fines to our fishermen in this area because fishermen in the Slovenian protection and environmental zone. How, according to our decision, one-sided because we do not apply our protected eco-fishing belt to Slovenia, we cannot bring him in. Because we think he's still sailing in international waters. And that's because we don't implement our own declared quasi economic belt. Therefore, the HSP again insisted on the implementation of this economic belt imitation in the form of a protected ecological and fishing zone in Croatia. We're natural to avoid incidents. But don't forget. The time when Prime Minister Sanader signed a joint statement on the avoidance of incidents in Brijuni caused this by daily entry of Slovenian huts and daily entry of Slovenian patrol ships. And at 10 o'clock this morning, a Slovenian cabin fished two miles inside our territorial waters. Therefore, it is simply about one continuity which we will not stop by calling for good neighbourhood and the fact that so many Croats work on the other side of the border, and so many Slovenians on this side of the border, but only by implementing our laws and protecting Croatian sovereignty. I agree that it is not the job of Croatian fishermen to protect their safety, but it is, ladies and gentlemen, the job of the Croatian state. Croatian fishermen of Savudrija react as they react because the Croatian state generally does not guarantee either personal security or the safety of their property. So that's why we insisted here that we push for a solution to border obstacles through a peaceful path. But this does not mean that Croatia must in this sense forget the safety of its fishermen and must forget the obligation of constitutional provisions to exercise its sovereignty in its territorial sea and protect its sovereign rights in the field of epicontinental belt and economic belt. What's the point here is the following. We have here in this declaration separated two problems which Slovenia is trying to connect together. We want to separate the issue of the maritime border from the issue of the right to possess an ecological, i.e. the epicontinental belt. Slovenia has no right to an ecological and epicontinental belt, it is clear to everyone. As much as we bend the Slovenian-Croatian border in Piran Bay, i.e. the Savudrija Valley, it is impossible to reach international waters. We even have clear motives, which is the fact that in that part of international waters, their gas is being drawn by the Croatian and Italian sides. It is clear to us that Slovenia wants to get hold of that gas, but unfortunately, it is simply, ladies and gentlemen, impossible in Slovenia. This gas belongs either to Croatia or Italy, depending on the map of the Adriatic environment. But this has nothing to do with the territorial seas because the epicontinental belt and the economic belt are completely different mechanisms compared to the territorial sea. We also believe that it is necessary to go to international court. We have left here in the declaration by the international judicial body, however, for us in the HSP it is still an international court. For two reasons. First of all, you need to agree on what is the subject of arbitration. For Slovenia it is the whole border, for us it is just a sea part, if necessary. Because if we engage in the spread of the problem, as Slovenia is trying here, the problem of the sea border, so the problem located at 10 square miles extend to the problem on the surface of 100 square miles. So, and to the problem of the epicontinental belt. If we extend this problem to an entire land border, which, ladies and gentlemen, is the decision of the Badinter Commission, where the entire border has mostly been fixed for the last 300 years between the Croatian Triad and the Slovenian Duchys, one wonders what this is all about. What is the need for confusion, to bring additional confusion into it all together. Of course, on our part, it's doing some good will, but the question is, how long will such arbitration take? The international court is much clearer and much faster. In arbitration, you must therefore agree on the subject of arbitration, which is difficult, about the starting points that are completely different with us. In Slovenia, the whole Piran Bay is theirs and of course the code, you have to agree on who will do it and who will pay for it. In fact, arbitration is paid by both sides, and the court and court costs are paid by the UN, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge difference. It's not because I came from Bodul, it's simply because it's crazy to spend it on arbitration and drag arbitration for 6, 7 years instead of solving this thing in court, as we've been able to do for years now through a few years of litigation. There is another really interesting information, and that is that each member of the UN has declared to be the secretary-general who is a desirable form of dispute resolution. She could therefore say whether she consents to the International Court of Justice, whether she agrees to the International Court for the Law of the Sea, whether she consents to arbitration or agrees to advisory arbitration. Of the 17 countries that have their coast in Europe, only one, guess which one, said it did not agree to court, but that it could accept only advisory arbitration and it declared it in October 2001. Slovenia to the UN secretary-general after a failed attempt to reach that part of the sea by an agreement of Racan-Drnovšek. I've got a nice plate here from the UN website. Only Slovenia, anyone else, all other countries and Belgium and Lithuania and Latvia and Greece and Germany and Portugal and Spain and Sweden and the United Kingdom and Croatia and Denmark all agree to court, except one. And that only speaks of how strong their arguments are and how hollow Mr. Rupel's rhetoric is about Croatia might not agree to arbitration. We know who will not agree to court, which is Slovenia because it knows that the arguments are of absolutely no value to them and that they are fully internationally justified. And the craziest thing is the same in '93. Slovenia and that same document, adopted in the spirit of Pritchani, say that, I quote: "The Republic of Slovenia belongs to a group of so-called geographically deprived states which, because of their geographical position, cannot declare their exclusive economic zones, therefore economic belts." It was established in '93, so that today they would declare their protection zone and the epicontinental dog. So much for the seriousness of this document on the Slovenian side and so much for good neighbourly relations in the European spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union and its entry into it will not exceed the existence of borders. That this is best proved by Slovenia itself, which behaves as a member of the European Union completely Balkan and which as a member of the European Union, firmly protects its borders, even trying to expand a few dozen or hundreds of kilometers south. For all these reasons, the HSP club will vote for this declaration. We participated in its preparation and preparation, and we want the Croatian Government to approach the opening of the dispute before the International Court of Justice in The Hague as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45045	Thank you. And before the last club I ask all MPs who are not in the hall, in the assembly, to come in, because after the last HDZ club, the distinguished representative Frana Matušić will vote on this declaration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45046	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian Democratic Community club gives strong support to this declaration, which supports all Croatian government's moves to protect Croatian national interests and protect Croatian sovereignty. I would like to stress immediately that Croatia should continue to develop friendly and good neighbourly relations and that all open issues should be resolved in a peaceful manner. We remind the Croatian government's initiative, led by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, to resolve all open issues with Slovenia in the spirit of good neighbourly relations and peaceful ways. However, the adoption of the law in the Slovenian Parliament on the declaration of the epicontinental belt and the ecological fishing zone in the Croatian part of the Savadria vala is unfortunately not in the spirit of friendly relations, but in fact a territorial claim for Croatian territory that will certainly have no consequences because it is legally void and internationally-legally completely unfounded. The Croatian government's proposal to resolve this open issue in front of the International Court is obviously also widely supported both in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian public. This very concrete move by the Croatian government after 15 years of trying to negotiate and negotiate makes it quite clear which way this issue should be addressed and, of course, the Slovenian side that should respond to this request from the Croatian government is now on the move. I would like to say something and there have been a lot of speeches here about how Slovenija is trying its position in the European Union and blackmailing Croatia in some way in the statements of its representatives. There have been attempts in Europe, it is known that there have been attempts similar to where a certain member of the European Union has tried to call for its membership in the European Union to solve some of the problems from bilateral relations with neighbouring countries. Such attempts have ended with failure, because the European Union certainly cannot accept such behaviour and certainly will not accept it in this case, but will act as Javier Solana, the European Union's High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy, said that the issue should be resolved by Croatia and Slovenia in the manner agreed. In this case, there is a very clear and concrete Croatian government, that this issue is finally resolved before the International Court and that we will continue to insist on this and in this regard we are giving full support to the Croatian government that has already taken these moves. It is clear that there are other instruments, primarily legal instruments at the disposal of the Croatian government, the Croatian state and, depending on the Slovenian side's move, the Croatian government itself will react, but also certainly this Croatian Parliament. Here, once again, I would finally express satisfaction with all the moves of the Croatian government, giving it strong support and this declaration I believe that will be brought really with a high degree of unanimity or unity as you wish, so that the position of the Croatian government would be as open and wider as possible in the respect in which we have so far stated. So this declaration by the Croatian Democratic Community club strongly supports and we expect further concrete moves in this direction in which it is said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45047	Thank you. Here's how it seems to me that we don't have this quorum right now, I'm setting a break until 3:00, and at 3:00, there's going to be a vote on the declaration. ... that within a few minutes all the MPs who are not in the assembly come in so that we can vote on this Declaration. [[Home is not saved.]] And I suggest we vote manually. Okay, here's the obvious quorum, therefore, exists. Please, 93 MPs. We can approach the vote. On behalf of the HDZ Club Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45049	Since some MPs do not have tools, I suggest that according to Article 238. We're voting our rules of procedure with our hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45050	All right. I am voting on the proposal for a declaration. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the Declarations under the Law on the Protected Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Belt adopted by the Slovenian Parliament on 4 October 2005 in the text as proposed by the Proposer with 97 votes in favour. We'll be back to work at 3:00. [[Applause.]] We'll continue with the afternoon session. We move to the 8th item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States acting on behalf of the Government of the United States regarding the use of airspace, polygons, airports and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe, second reading of P.Z. No. 193. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of Defense, Mr. Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The basis for the adoption of a Memorandum of Understanding Act between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America on behalf of the Government of the United States of America concerning the use of airspace, polygons, airports and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe is the provision of Article 139(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament on 4 February 2005. The final draft law confirms this Memorandum so that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia become part of the internal legal order. The Memorandum is directly in support of the strategic documents, namely the national security strategy of the Republic of Croatia, in particular chapters on the development of defence capabilities referred to in Article 80, which, I quote, is one of the most important principles of the development of the armed forces must be to achieve interoperability with the forces of the NATO member states. The Defence Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, in particular point 2., 3., which discusses ensuring the presumption of full compatibility and interoperability with the armed forces and defence systems of other democratic states, I quote, and the development of the organisational capabilities necessary for successful joint action, completed the quote. These military strategies of the Republic of Croatia, in particular points 5. 1. 4 interoperability and compatibility as one of the leading peacekeeping tasks of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the process of preparing for Euro-Atlantic integration and point 6. 3. 1. bilateral and multilateral military cooperation. State power status... The United States of America is primarily regulated in accordance with the provisions of the agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the legal position of their forces, so on. NATO SOFA, NATO SOFE provisions are part of an agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and other states participating in a partnership for peace, on the legal position of their PFP SOFA forces, which entered the Republic of Croatia on 10 February 2002. The purpose of this memo is to clarify the conditions under which the US Armed Forces for the purpose of training and exercise allow the use of airspace, airports, polygons, sea ports and training facilities designated by the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with NATO PFP SOFOM. The annual plan, which will include the timetable proposed by the exercise plan, will be approved in accordance with the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Let me remind you in accordance with Article 7. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Laws on defence and Article 4. The law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection and civil servants and passengers in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad will decide on the exit or operation of armed forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia or on the entry or operation of the armed forces of other countries on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the framework of exercises other than the exit or entry of armed forces within the international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed them on the basis of international contracts. The memorandum obliges the parties to establish a joint expert team, for joint planning and management, in which representatives of the Croatian, American authorities are. The Memorandum sets out procedures and procedures for the entry, exit and use of the Croatian airspace, airports and maritime ports, polygons and training facilities, procedures for the investigation of accidents and disasters, search and rescue operations, nature protection and the environment, damage to public reporting. Upon arrival in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the shale unit will enjoy status in line with NATO's PfP SOFE provisions. The use of airports and seaports, polygons and training facilities will be in accordance with the implementing agreements and standard operating procedures to be coordinated at the level of the joint expert team. The visiting unit, which, within the meaning of this Memorandum, represents members of the United States Armed Forces and a civilian component that monitors the US armed forces in the Republic of Croatia, has the right to take all anti-terrorism measures and other security measures as provided for in NATO SOFI. The guest unit has the right to maintain order in all military camps, facilities or other rooms in which guests are located. Outside these premises, the guest unit will act only in agreement or together with the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, Article 3. A memo. This shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article 7. NATO PFP SOFE, which is a detailed criminal jurisdiction. Regular military units and formations of forces will have the right to maintain order in all military camps, facilities or other rooms in which they are located. Military police, the force can take appropriate measures to ensure that order and security are maintained in such areas. Outside these areas, military police may act only in agreement with the authorities of the receiving State or together with them if such action is necessary to maintain discipline and order among members of the force. Under the provisions of NATO PFP SOFE, the military authority of the shale state will have in the state area of the recipient State exclusive criminal and tight jurisdiction in accordance with the law of the shale state over all personnel subject to military legislation of that State. The authorities of the receiving State shall have jurisdiction over members of the force or civil component and of family members in the case of offences committed in the area of the receiving State which are punishable under the law of our country. The guest unit will pay the costs for services provided by civil entities according to publicly published prices or concluded agreements except for the use of military facilities and infrastructure of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The aircraft owned or used by or on behalf of the visiting unit will not be subject to the payment of landing or parking charges in the Croatian military bases or the fee for crossing or air navigation while in the Croatian airspace, all according to the aforementioned NATO PFP SOFI. The financial obligations of the parties in this Memorandum will depend on the availability of the money allocated in accordance with the relevant state laws. During the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of this Memorandum, respected MPs in this High House pointed out among other things the issue of liability for damages committed by participants. The memorandum provides that any claims on compensation incurred as a result of the activities set out in this Memorandum will be settled in accordance with the provision of Article 8. NATO PFP SOFE, which was confirmed in the Croatian Parliament on 7 December 2001. The memorandum stipulates that the guest unit will respect the regulations of the Republic of Croatia concerning the safety of the flight of accidents and disasters and search and rescue operations as well as compliance with environmental protection rules during the operation. It is also prescribed that the parties may conclude separate implementing agreements in order to allow the implementation of the Memorandum. Such implementing agreements will be concluded by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and will be co-signed by authorised representatives of a company or a ministry responsible for individual agreements in question. All comments made during the debate at the plenary session were considered by the applicant with due diligence and explained in the final draft law. The text of the memorandum is in line with NATO PFP SOFOM and all observations made during the debate will be incorporated into implementing agreements in certain areas in accordance with Article 18 of this Memorandum. I stress that any dispute over the interpretation or application of this Memorandum will be settled through consultations between parties and will not be referred to the resolution of the third party and in the event of non-compliance with the memorandum and NATO... NATO's relevant PfP-SOFA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, the memorandum procedure identified an error in the first indent of the preamble in the wording of the Croatian memorandum in the section relating to the definition of the party's memorandum and the European Command of the United States. It has been established that there is a missing part of the text, which acts on behalf of the United States Government in accordance with Article 79. The Vienna Conventions on the Law of International Contracts by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations and the Note of the US Embassy in Zagreb reached an agreement on correcting the technical error in the text of the Memorandum of Understanding in Croatian language, replacing the corrected text with the wrong text. Following the correction made in the first indent formulation, the preamble is now visible from the text in Croatian that the parties to this contract are the Government of the two states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45053	I thank the ministers. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is a respected representative, Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45054	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 48th session supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in order to step up activities to strengthen partnership relations and to promote the good co-operation so far, the two defence ministries unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America on behalf of the United States Government regarding the use of airspace, polygons, airports and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe in the text proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45055	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. The Committee for Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection is a respected representative of Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45056	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Environmental Protection has also discussed as an interested working body the law in question and has also proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consent between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command, but at the same time, since we are familiar with the environmental law of the military exercise site in the Slunja area, the Committee has also proposed additional conclusions to the Croatian Parliament and this is related to the mandatory setting up of monitoring at the "Eugen Quaternik" military exercise centre in Slutje and the requirement to ensure the setting of monitoring as soon as possible and that only then would I say the use of the exercise site for certain exercises. In addition, we believe that it is necessary to provide the local environment with compensation for compensation related to the potentially harmful consequences resulting from the use of the exercise site but also the compensation since that part of the economic resources cannot be used for other purposes, since the restriction is in use. It should also continue to monitor the health status of the population in the area of military exercise in order to always have correct information on the possible adverse consequences given the restriction of the use of that space. So on behalf of the board, we propose to the Croatian Parliament and to draw these additional conclusions so that there are no major problems in the implementation of the memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45057	On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! On 28 July 2005, the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America on behalf of the Government of the United States and on the use of air transport, air and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe under the number of 193 draft laws. The Committee considered the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of this Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States as regards the use of airspace by the US Armed Forces as an interested body and in accordance with provisions 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament made the next decision. Introductory exposure to the presentation of this law was given by the applicant, who pointed out that the main objective is to establish a memorandum of consent, better regulation of relations in view of the intensifying of partner activities and the promotion of good defence cooperation so far, and that, according to PfP and SOFI, all sides of the armed forces are considered armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. After the discussion of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, the majority of votes with five votes in favour and four abstentions accepted this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45059	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45060	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! First, a few words about the goal that the law in question aims to achieve. As has already been said, I would like to emphasise and reiterate that one of the important objectives of this bill is to improve good bilateral military cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. This military cooperation has already been able to tell our long history. It has lasted since 1994, or more precisely since 29.11.1994, when a Memorandum of Cooperation was signed between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States. This military co-operation was of great importance to the education or education of senior Croatian officers, an officer at the leading US military educational institutions from the American Military Academys of West Point, the Naval Academy, the Air Academy, the famous Fort Levenworth Command School, the National Security School in Washington, etc. And we are pleased to conclude that not a small number of Croatian military officers and generals have passed education at these renowned world military educational institutions where not only officers are educated but also civilians and many others who want to learn some things from the management of large complex systems, modern management, etc. Therefore, we have a number of reasons to improve this cooperation because it is very important for training the Ministry of Defence, Croatian officers, for all of those challenges facing the Republic of Croatia in the future but also for all of those ongoing, operational, day-to-day tasks that are related to ongoing peace operations and especially in the area of a key, peace operation of NATO in Afghanistan, etc. ISOFU. When the military cooperation agreement was signed in 1994, I would like to stress that it was a year before the Dayton Agreements were signed, that it was at a time when conflicts at these premises and this military co-operation were still ongoing and that military agreement was one of the most important results of the foreign policy of the Government of Croatia at that time and especially the Ministry of Defence. At the end of the last part of this agreement, the following is stressed and I want to highlight and quote it. The foreign signatories of this Agreement recognise the need to resume talks on the status of US military forces and US military personnel in the Republic of Croatia during joint exercises. Washington 29. 11. 1994. 11 years later, we still have the basic fundamental laws that are hereditary, the legacy of NATO's legal gain in joint military exercises. It was therefore logical that, these years or these days, indeed, one such important agreement was bilaterally defined to determine all those high standards that were not regulated by these existing documents primarily by NATO SOF, which was signed between NATO states in 1951. By establishing a partnership for peace in 1994, the Member States signed the so-called "Peace Partnership". PfP to SOFA, which is nothing more than the adoption of those NATO standards, namely NATO SOFA. And it may not be too much to stress now, given the discussions of some of the fundamental elements related to NATO's SOFA, or NATO's PfP SOFA. In that sense, I will only quote Article 2. NATO's SOFA says among other things: "The duty is to force and their civil components, their members as well as family members to respect the legal order of the receiving state.". In every way and so far, we can be happy to say that this was the case despite some individual unwanted incidents. Also refrain from all activities in the receiving country, especially from all political activities that are not in the spirit of this Agreement. It's also a commitment to the state... to take the necessary measures for this purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it can be said that most of those involved in these military operations were properly informed and properly prepared to comply with the basic laws of the receiving State. Nevertheless, I said, there have been individual excesses, but in a statistical sense it is not something that threatens good standards and good customs defined by these basic documents, meaning NATO SOFA, and PfP SOFA. There's really no need to get into the details that regulate and determine all the elements that are tied up, I don't know, with driving checks, fees, driver's licenses, furniture, customs etc.. What's the theme of today's schedule is whether it's a bilateral agreement. As set out in Article 1, its basic objective and purpose is to establish the conditions under which the United States allows the use of airspace, airports, polygons, sea ports and training facilities established by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of training and exercise, based on proposals submitted by the Joint Planning and Management Group in accordance with this Memorandum. The most important part that deserves certainly special attention to this Agreement is related to Article 5, which defines a very precise group for joint planning, management and coordination of joint exercises. I want to highlight his basics. This memorandum means a joint body for planning and management, a joint joint team and a professional team to be composed of Croatian and American representatives. Croatian representatives on the joint team are joint and occasional members whose task will be to coordinate all issues related to the control of polygons, operational procedures and the planned and operational implementation of US operations. Croatian Permanent Representatives and their deputies will be appointed from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, with the representatives of the Ministry of Defence also being the head of the team, then from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, spatial planning and construction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Croatian Air Navigation Control. American Permanent Representatives and their deputies in the joint body for the planning and implementation of these exercises will be appointed from the United States Embassy in Zagreb, which is particularly important to highlight, and then from other bodies of air forces, maritime forces, forces of marine infantry, land forces and special operations command in Europe. This body that it is planning to implement, coordinate and monitor these joint exercises will have, among other things, an important task to identify long-term plans and standard operational procedures for training and training, as it is precisely such exercises that are very important for the adoption of interoperability of all those procedures and procedures which are the basis of joint and effective action in international peace operations. Certainly all of these exercises from the one in Minnesota and from those exercises in the Republic of Croatia are important and deserve support, at the same time certainly the interests of the Republic of Croatia during the course of these exercises to protect all those facilities, infrastructures, the environment and especially the safety of Croatian citizens. There is really no reason to doubt that one such coordinating body will take care of all these interests: quality exercises, safety, environmental protection, in accordance with high standards when planning these exercises and proposing exercises that can be adopted. In the end, these high standards are respected, not only in the case of joint bilateral or multilateral exercises but are respected in the conduct and exercise of the Croatian Army on these polygons. Planning. The Republic of Croatia will approve an annual plan based on a proposal from this body to include a schedule with the proposed exercise plan and to be updated or modified as appropriate. The annual plan will be approved in accordance with national legislation, as also stressed by the defence minister. When changing the date of the planned exercise, the guest unit will inform the Republic of Croatia of its requirements no later than 10 days from the start of the current month for the following month. In any event, some of the provisions of this Agreement raised particular attention, the use of airports and sea ports, polygons and facilities, financial issues but also some of the issues regulated and defined in Article 11 by carrying out smaller structures. What does that mean? For those who do not know, this could cause confusion, the alarm that it is about building objects that threaten the basic provisions and fundamental legal procedures of limitations and so on. These smaller structures mainly refer to what, units that come to practice that last a few days. They mostly refer to tents eventually, containers. Anything that can be removed within a few days of completion of the exercise. From all that has been said so far, the HDZ Club supports the efforts of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Croatia on the proposal for this Law to confirm the abovementioned memorandum, and we hope that it will indeed contribute to quality training and education in all respects, respecting those fundamental requirements to comply with the high standards of safety of Croatian citizens and environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45061	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45062	Mr. President, Cosic said that after 11 years, we get a document that regulates the status of partner countries' forces in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is not true. A few years ago NATO and PFP SOPH were signed. It has been ratified long ago in this House. It's been going on for a few years. Therefore, this claim is not correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45063	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45064	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45065	Dear Representative Cosic, I did not injure Article 205 or 208, which says the president gives... the word in the order in which they entered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 206 at the Parliament's meeting in determining the agenda, and so on, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. ... On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's distinguished representative, Srecko Ferenčak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45066	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Allow me to say a few sentences in the next few minutes on behalf of the HNS and PGS Club on the Proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding on Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States acting on behalf of the United States Government and on the use of airspace, polygons, airports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe. Unfortunately, neither after all the reasoned remarks which were made in the first debate on February 2, 2005, all the constructive and concrete proposals proposed by the Croatian PGS Representatives' Club today can be said that again one and a half of Croatia I dare say not enough of the bill. We are not at all arguing either that we are making it difficult for Croatia to enter European and world political and military associations. In fact, we consider them one of the priorities of Croatian politics but not under any conditions. With this document, the two countries strengthen their good relations, and Croatia as a potential member of the North Atlantic Alliance makes an impression on one of the key partners in the region. The memorandum may give the impression that Croatia can gain great confidence from the US to become a regional training centre for allied forces. It actually determines the conditions under which the United States is allowed to use our infrastructure for military exercises and maneuvers. Contrary to the claims made by the legislator who, during the first debate, assured us that the memorandum must be concluded in the proposed form because the Republic of Croatia has accepted some other agreements such as the SOPHA which has already been discussed here, we argue that such an attitude is not correct because no previous agreement can prejudge the content of the current memorandum but its content depends solely on the ability of a state which makes such an agreement with the United States to define and defend its interests. But there is no way we can take the impression that this memorandum has been prepared so that, without great discussion and observation, we have accepted all its provisions without protecting some very important interests for our country. We are a small country, but in this case, we are a country that provides for the use of its own resources, so it has the right to seek and comply with certain rules of conduct and the conditions it puts before the other side. This memorandum also sets out areas where aircraft flights and the use of airspace or land and maritime spaces containing national parks, ornithological collections and reserves are prohibited. This is certainly commendable because we truly are a beautiful country with wonderful natural and its values and we need to safeguard them. What concerns us in this case is that the creator of a provision like this forgets one extremely important fact. The Republic of Croatia is a tourist country where guests feel comfortable spending their vacations. We have a clear doubt that the guests will feel comfortable in the future when their planes and other fighter aircraft will fly over their heads and we will easily explain to them that it is not war, but that the combined forces have military exercises and let them endure a little. We don't want these images showing up on our shores and insides. It is commendable that the proposal prohibits flying over all our national parks, nature parks and reserves, but we ask that a provision on the prohibition of any military exercise be introduced in the text of the law during the period of the tourist season. It means 6 to 10 months. It is very important to point out that the legislator has not accepted almost one remark or proposal on a higher level of responsibility for US armed forces concerning possible environmental incidents, proposals for a restriction or a complete ban on the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium, which we consider extremely important. These conditions for the use of our airports and seaports. The proposed measures also failed to determine the payment of compensation in case of accidents and accidents. Or possible crimes that would be caused by members of the US Armed Forces during exercises like before and after the same. The PGS HNS Club has proposed and proposed that the conditions of use of airport and sea ports for US military forces be re-equaled with other users of their services. In all current negotiations, Croatia is a party to how we have come to know the instructions on the possibility of using Udbina and Pula as air bases for the needs of US military forces, while the proposal for the final text also entered Zadar Airport. The airport in Zadar is questionable for its size and the fact that it also serves as a civilian airport. We wonder why the negotiations no longer insisted on the possible stronger American investment and arrangement and training of the Udbin airport, which is almost ideal for this purpose because of its isolated location. It is also an unacceptable possibility for a member of the US military force to be exempt from any responsibility for the possible initiation of a criminal offence, or we believe that their possible actions committed against the law if they are committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia must fall under the sanctions of the Croatian judiciary. The final bill further does not make it clear how much the financial Republic of Croatia will actually cost to implement such an agreement, as the legislator remains in the final draft of the law in unclear formulations. An example that well-prepared and reasoned proposals can be presented, amended individual provisions and voted for a more favourable status has in the near past. For example, in 1993, when Germany reached an audit of the US military contracts and fought for their military forces stationed in Germany to comply with the provisions of German laws, and surveillance in US bases is carried out by German authorities. The HNS and PGS club fully supports the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia at military level with the United States as well as the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Euro-Atlantic Associations, but we cannot support the lightly bad moves that have been made on our part. With the United States, the Republic of Croatia has good partnership relations, so in light of this, we have the right to ask that this memorandum be made on fully party relations. Therefore, in the case of a final draft law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America acting on behalf of the Government of the United States of America regarding the use of airspace, polygons, air and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe, we propose to refer to the draft law to the completion of the legislator, that the legislator finally accept the reasoned proposals and the HNS and PGS clubs and other representatives clubs in the Croatian Assembly, as well as individual parliamentary representatives, that after the third reading, we finally receive the satisfying text of the law which will clearly show our wishes and efforts to join the Croatian Association, which will guarantee partner and friend countries Croatia and the US to ensure successful cooperation with fair and clear rights and obligations of both sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45067	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. ... Well, here you are crossed, I don't know anymore. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, come on, come on. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I don't know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45068	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, especially for this misunderstanding that has taken place. So, Mr. Minister, I would like to point out once again that we from the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance support this Memorandum, so that this does not come at all and become controversial. However, the main reason why I appear in this debate and in which I appeared and in the first time we discussed this law was the fact that our members living in the area of the cancer and other parts within the Slunjsko polygon have repeatedly complained about all the damages and sufferings they suffer from the already used polygon and, of course, the signing of such a Memorandum and the adoption of such a law is something that challenges them and further fears that it will be even worse for them, that their living conditions will be even more difficult. So, just in terms of supporting them, I want to discuss this. The aim to achieve the adoption of this Memorandum is to step up activities to strengthen partnership relations and promote good defence cooperation so far. It is said that good bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia should result in good relations in other areas of interstate co-operation. It is an opportunity to point out that something similar is the result of these situations today and that a few days ago we had the opportunity to get some help from that side. It is further stated that the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and the Republic of Croatia with the Ministry of Defence is in constant growth, significant intensity and of exceptional importance. And we absolutely agree with that. However, it may be useful to explain in more detail what the cooperation of the two ministries is of such importance. I note that perhaps some questions would not have been asked, but at first reading, if they had been better explained with the text of the Memorandum itself, which we had de facto received now through the interpretation of our remarks by colleague Kajin and colleague Pero Kovacevic, when we gave this in our first reading we now got an explanation of some things. Of course, we can accept these arguments or not, but what I'm asking as a question, I'd rather see it in writing as an interpretation, or as an addition to the Memorandum Agreement from which it would be read, which would be some additional confirmation. I'm asking one other question now. What's that gonna cost taxpayers? The amount of financial resources required to implement this Memorandum is not clearly established. The evaluation of the funds necessary for the implementation of the act states that the implementation of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum will take place through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence, and that funds from the state budget intended for the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be used to implement the law. This Regulation shall enter into The Memorandum states that the financial obligations of the parties in this Memorandum of Understanding will depend on the availability of the money allocated in accordance with the applicable state laws. It is also stated that the costs of the so-called so-called ‘. Visiting unit or Visiting units for the use of military polygons, goods and services will not be greater than those who pay Croatian Armed Forces for the same purposes. Here they were mentioned, the American side was freed from paying landing fees, parking in Croatian military bases, and overflight fee, air navigation in Croatian airspace. The payment of services obtained from civil entities will be settled by the conclusion of a contract or by payment according to publicly published tariffs, Article 5 paragraph 5, paragraph 5. On the conditions of stay at civilian airports, the US side will reach an agreement with the above. It also states in Article 12(3) of the Memorandum that the costs related to operations will be covered in a manner specified in Article 10. So what exactly is the financial burden of these exercises? What exactly does it mean that the financial obligations of the parties will depend on the availability of the money allocated? Who brings expenses unless one of the parties has the means available for a certain cost? Since the press has made claims that the cost of the Republic of Croatia would be more than useful to determine the real situation in the signing of this Memorandum. When are the exercises going to take place? In Article 19, paragraph 2 is The memorandum states that they remain in force for 5 years from the date of entry into force after which their duration may be extended. Since it foresees the use of airspace, airports, polygons and seaports, it is unclear that tourism, however, which is still making significant means of filling this state budget, will be protected from the immediate proximity of military exercises. The memorandum gave US side access to the following facilities: Slunj and Gasinci polygons, Pula, Zadar and Udbin Airport, Rijeka seaports, Split and Dubrovnik. The US side is also allowed to build less unspecified structures for the purposes of training and safety, which will be subject to an agreed agreement. Very often the word "separated agreement" or "additional agreement" or something like that is perhaps what brings us most into, I'll say, a doubt about what de facto lies behind that memoranda. And maybe for the end, since I'm not there, if I didn't have very much time left, I'd just point out that the area around Slunj is a space that's karst's end, which is full of sinks, specific and very protected because there are also Plitvice Lakes. We are a tourist country, our ports are tourist ports and the question is why we don't work more, let's say on investing in the development of Udbina and returning to be such a call center, but that airports such as Zadar or Pula are burdened with military installations. Construction of structures in polygons of so-called small or non-specific structures we received a response in the ministry's explanation. However, I am very interested still, it remains unclear to me and is related to the reasons for criminal responsibility in the event that any NATO force commits any infraction on the streets, roads, installations, infrastructure or something belonging to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45069	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45070	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. The old people's saying, "If you value yourself, others will appreciate you." It's important to say about what kind of negotiators we have, and it's best visible about this Memorandum. That's why we can freely call this Memorandum "The Memorandum of Free Military Bases". That's the real name, and that's why I'm going to remind you again of an agreement that the Black Leg Indian tribe has concluded with the United States. So, the Indian Black Leg tribe represented by the Chief One who is the Shield and War Eagle in the Air, and the Indian officers The One who scares bears and buffalo with a beautiful voice made an agreement with the United States that is essentially more favourable than this Croatian agreement because it includes compensation for damages, guarantees military protection of the United States. Therefore, I think it would be cheaper and better for Croatia if it had taken the descendants of this tribe to represent us in these negotiations because then it would not have happened if the president of the state in the newspaper knew that Croatia had signed the memorandum. You know for a fact that the president of the state found out from the papers that we made the memorandum. We too understand in the Croatian Party club rights, we want bilateral relations to develop with the United States, because the United States must be an important partner to us and it was also a government mistake to put these relations in a rather unfavourable position. So we have to develop. We don't object to negotiators from the United States. Look, they did their job right. They did their job right, they had a bad team on our side, so the Croatian team, which is obviously everything they said, took. And if we had at least the descendants of the Black Leg tribe or had some representatives from the Croatian Parliament, the results of the negotiations would have been quite different. And if that were the case, look at the special arrangements that the United States has with NATO members. They have very different things, what Mr. Ferenchak and Mrs. Alenka said and everyone else. I think it is well aware and Krešimir Cosic, the esteemed general, that we have to make sure that really that Croatia is represented by people who know what is being negotiated and that they know how to deal with it, that it is always an agreement and that it should be concluded, but the agreement has to be seen, and not accepted, they offer one variant and we immediately accept that part and now it turns out that the lady is, I will not name her, but she did not go there, the minister has set her up or the government has determined that she only went there to take the diaries or that, I don't know what she went there, but obviously Croatia didn't bring well. It didn't do Croatia any good. Therefore, I will not repeat all those gaps that are contained. It's clear to us, look out, at least we tried, we were looking for another reading so these translations were removed, errors in translation, so even though that translation was obviously paid, maybe she, too, this woman who went there and she got the journals and everything else, and maybe she got paid for this part now that she was doing it again. It is clear to us that what I last said on behalf of the Croatian party club is that it cannot enter the memorandum because of the fact that it is finished on the American side, so it must be on our side. Let us once learn order, learn at the Ministry of Defence that we know who is doing what, and that in the name of Croatia we negotiate people who are serious, who are serious, without bringing ourselves into this situation or that because of such irresponsible, irresponsible people we are in conflict with the United States. Because they have a team that knows what they're doing, how they negotiate, get a team from the Croatian side who doesn't even know why it came probably there and what happened happens. And you can say whatever you want, you can refer to the defense strategy, the military strategy, the national security strategy, it's the same hyperproduction, the dead letter on paper. The question is how many people in the Ministry of Defence have read these strategies, which is why we have proposed that all these strategies be reviewed and that we know. You can talk about a strategic defence review, he's nowhere in the Constitution, he's not in the Defense Act, not in any document. You're making up something new. But at least you learn that when you send people somewhere who confuse you with such bad materials to represent Croatian interests, not to go on the road for the sake of the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45071	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic. An individual debate. Are you giving up? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45072	I'm just adding one word. ... So it's just the shortest word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We must also consider here in the next step what the minister mentioned, that we must go into the making and review all existing strategies: the defence strategy, the military strategy and the national security strategy. We need to reevaluate it to make the defense system the way it is. Watch out for me. We're getting a lot of fuss in this area. Take this variant, the situation for the president of the state, the commander-in-chief to know about the press memo. Let's take it upon ourselves that the president of the state actually finds out that we're leading mensota people to a military exercise. Let's take all the situations that are going on, take a question about getting a truck and everything, and now let's just take one more thing. We've been discussing the state of the Armed Forces and the implementation of the defense preparations, we've reached conclusions here, there's nothing anybody's done or done, and now we're expecting, and we need to get a report under the Defense Act for the past year, and it's still missing. He's not even president of the state. So it all points to a rather unserious situation and unserious behavior in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45073	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kočica Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45074	Thank you. I'm giving up further discussion, because I already said within the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45075	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad that this time, however, our government has made a memorandum, an agreement that has already been made with the United States Government, represented by command rather than by command as it was last time. Cooperation with our partners especially with a partner of such strength and size as the United States is not really questionable at all, but it is questionable whether it is co-operation or whether it is two completely unfair partners, so cooperation comes down to the fact that one partner sets the conditions, and the other partner says that you are right. The question is reciprocity, where such exercises of the Croatian forces take place in other people's territory, because such exercises of Croatian forces can happen on some American territory and whether this possibility is even mentioned somewhere that such a thing might happen. But I'd like to say a few words about the problem of the little girl's polygon, and I'm coming from that neighborhood, so it's kind of the closest thing to me. We have already asked in this House several times what happens to the Slunja polygon and the demands, the appeals of a local community that does not see the possibility of developing this area through a military polygon, especially if it is an internationalised military polygon, it already sees some other perspectives entirely. Namely, why is the international character of this polygon harmful to the polygon itself? It's not because some foreigners who will eventually make 2-3 traffics or possibly run someone down, and it's nothing, and it's those incidents that don't necessarily mean much, which happened in the past, but because the use of polygons by internationalization is multiplying and the effects of such dealings on a single karst end of which is definitely what is. The attitudes of local self-government are clear here. Almost all units of local self-government have declared against internationalisation and against the existence of polygons if ever possible. The attitudes of regional self - government are pretty clear, especially in this direction of thinking. It's an environmental impact study, which we heard last time in the discussion. This Environmental Impact Study was commissioned by the Ministry of Defence, paid by the Ministry of Defence and showed that polygon exercises do not have any effect that everything is actually in perfect order, which is more so that the polygon could be used there to organize organic food production in the area, I simply can't believe it. And they can't believe it, and they can't believe the environmental associations from that neighborhood, the Green Association, so they've tried to give that environmental impact study, some kind of review. The audit has shown certain doubts, however, a small chance seems that an independent study of such a type will be done. It's about the area of Plitvice Lakes, a few miles from the border of that polygon. About the area where the River Network springs, which in some near future, and this government has confirmed, is intended to turn into Nature Park and so on. It is perfectly inappropriate that at the source of such a river there should be a polygon over which the control of the civil institution of this society practically does not exist. In order to bring the matter down to a reasonable level, I think we should start thinking about not having the polygon internationalised and that the activities on the polygon come down to that level that the Croatian military really needs, and that is certainly not the current area of polygons that is huge. It was big for the army of the last state, and today it's perfectly certainly too big. Once again, I would like to appeal to the ministry to allow monitoring of what is happening in the polygon and to allow environmental associations to conduct an independent analysis of what is happening on the polygon and the consequence of this entire end and the living world around the polygon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45077	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45078	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Namely, the esteemed representative gave the wrong assumption that the local self-government is against the polygon. Perhaps because of the lack of information on the Committee today, the mayor of Slunj and the mayors of the surrounding municipalities were also on board. They support the polygon because first of all, because it was built last year and a water line of 11 kilometers, a bridge was built. And they argue that, with some small demands, clearly economical nature, and because of a large number of employees from that area, they strongly support that the polygon remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45079	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45080	It is necessary to correct the incorrect assumption in which it is said, there is no reciprocity, one dictates conditions, requirements, another listens, no exercises of the Croatian army abroad. That's not true. You remember this summer we discussed the participation of the Croatian Army in a military exercise in Minnesota. There are many such arrangements that have a very important and valuable compensatory character on the American side. It is not too high to stress that a year of education at the National Defence School in the United States, which the Republic of Croatia does not pay for more than $100,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45081	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I personally object to the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States. And I'm going to shed light on my opposition from only one aspect, which is the aspect of the Slunja military exercise site. And I would say, a complete effort to achieve some agreement between the executive authority, parliamentary authorities, local authorities and civil society in the area. For several years now, a debate has been under way, I would say, a public debate on the devastation of the area in Slunj, during the Yugoslav, former Yugoslav People's Army, the enormous damage done to the area and the simple dissatisfaction of citizens that this part of the area is limited for a particular purpose. And specifically for the purposes of the Ministry of Defense. This was the reason that several times in these public debates an agreement was sought and it probably resulted in a study on environmental protection that tried to reconcile the interests of the local environment, the interests of civil society, but I would say the interests of the Croatian military. From, I'd say, these documents that we finally made, no matter how many people have objections to objectivity, are slowly coming to the conclusion that the interest of the local environment is to close and die a military exercise site. Realising that for the needs of the Croatian government, they should continue to insist for several years. Therefore, it is a kind of attempt to say the easy dying of this special purpose for the needs of the Croatian Army. And of course, we are trying to send a clear message that the executive authorities and parliamentary authorities will have responsibility for the events of this transitional period in this purpose. And that responsibility comes down to monitoring, I would say limited use both in time and in method of use. And of course, a special problem, destroying military explosive things on that polygon. What can we conclude now? If we do not exempt Slunj military exercise from application, at that moment everything we have tried in previous discussions between the executive authorities and the local population will send a clear message, that it will remain a temporary character, we will be careful essentially not to send the right messages. Why aren't they real messages? Because simply the moment this military exercise site is left to the international military forces, regardless of whether they are separate or joint exercises, that means stronger and higher concentration and, of course, a longer time period of use of that polygon. So that's already the first message we send to the local population that we're not going to keep those promises in any way, that intention to re-purpose the military polygon. And that's something that bringing a new Memoranda isn't good because we're still challenging the infidelity of the local population. And now maybe the behavior of local self-government units. We had the first reading of this law, I would say, with the adoption of the minister, in February of this year. And in this debate there is also a particularly prominent problem of military exercise. In April of this year, indeed, the councils of the City Council of Slunja and the municipal councils of Josipdol, Plaškog and Tovnja draw conclusions in which they ask the Government that there is no internationalisation of exercises at the exercise site in Slunj, with a number of other conclusions. These are the decisions of local self-government units that are still in effect today. Today's statements by the head of some of these municipalities that they think different are their private statements. They have not yet tried again to have the courage and strength to go before their councils and send a message to citizens and civil society. No, we don't think that this will particularly burden the location that it is not contrary to agreed views with the government about the future of the military exercise site, not these discussions were not on the council. It is again our political responsibility, again we have a private position but we are not changing the official views of city councils and municipal councils. Therefore, I must say that I expect that the heads of the municipalities that today and the city have declared contrary to the current decisions will have the courage to send a message to the citizens. Because that's what's important about the credibility of our steps and that moment will be less resistance, maybe some civil society will have completely different performances, completely different demands it's all right but carrying the burden of the authorities means being responsible in their work in statements, which unfortunately we can't conclude that it's present at the moment when we're talking about military training at Slunj. I also want to point out particularly whether we have been completely honest whether we really think that the use of this area will be even temporary when we talk about a special purpose, because it is evident that it is not possible to organise a military school in another area. Were we responsible enough in that area to try to send a clear message to the citizens of that area? No, we estimate that this special purpose will remain for a long time with these and these conditions and simply find this sincere relationship between central authorities, local authorities and citizens who may have something different. And apparently that a very clear, transparent answer that we think that the future of that location might cause less impatience, I would say less conflict and it would be far easier to go to the citizens and send them special messages. Until we do that, we remain intransparent, we do one thing, we tell the citizens another and we put ourselves back at risk of not believing us as politicians. And that is why I personally cannot support this Memorandum and this Law, and I believe that only in the event that we send a clear message that there will remain a military school with these and these conditions, I would say and those controls and monitorings can we stand open to the citizens and say that this Memorandum will not harm them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45083	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45084	Thank you. counterpart Linic said local self-government units do not have the courage to put this topic back on the agenda. That's not true. The topic will be on the agenda of the Karlova County District Assembly and the leaders of the local self-government units have also changed their opinion after certain knowledge and measurement of agricultural products near the military polygon itself and it has proved that there are no harmful actions, that was the reason for the change in their opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45085	Thank you. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic's final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, in this brief review, I would like to say one thing: this agreement on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was signed by no woman, but by the woman, by the staff of the Ministry of Defence, as in this ministry and by other women, the employees of the other ministry, and I am proud of their work and this article. Just as in the Ministry of Defence, the share of women is 14% and we are more than proud of their work and now of the content of the observations themselves. We are in preparation and by sending this Final Bill proposal I hope that this came to the respected parliamentary deputies and photocopies of NATO pfp SOFE so that the honourable parliamentary MPs would have the knowledge that the issue of criminal responsibility was regulated and that the issue of damage compensation was regulated. NATO pfp SOFA has been adopted in this High House, this international agreement that becomes part of the internal legal order in force above internal legislation. We can't, we can want to achieve something more, but this international agreement obliges us. We cannot, once we have ratified such an international agreement in the negotiations on the technical implementation of this case, make demands that are somewhat higher, normally unless the opposite party agrees. There is no special interest and let us take down one of the famous ones as we wish to be a military polygon, we had a proposal of military exercises that did not pass in this Assembly House because it did not reach a sufficient number of votes, it was intended to be on the territory of the Republic of Croatia only one military exercise, exercise above Pula airspace, then it was not landing on Pula airspace but use of airspace but must go to this home it is unequivocally and it is beyond the time of the tourist season. It's all been taken care of. The agreement, a memorandum, contains and provides for this joint body which determines all elements of future military exercises. The exercise is live tissue, training is a living tissue you cannot, by such a general agreement, predict all possible circumstances that can occur in the application of a particular exercise, so it is a provision that what is not regulated by this agreement is not regulated in the basic NATO pfp SOFOM will be subject to further implementing agreements. Something about environmental protection since several clubs and respected parliamentary representatives have asked the question. The MORH ordered an environmental impact study, the study produced results that there was no increased negative impact on the Sunj military polygon and this is the result of the measurement. The esteemed parliamentary representative Vuljanić even if I had made it clear that he believed in the result of the study, whether the study was this because he had ordered it, and paid for the MORH. I'm just going to connect to another study, it was also the subject of newspaper writing, the radar position on Učka, and it was, too, whether the study was this way because the MORH ordered it and paid for it. The Primorje-Gorski County ordered another study and this second study gave the same results as this previous study. The environmental impact study on the Slunj polygon provides monitoring and the MORH will respect the obligations of the Nature Protection Act and the Environmental Protection Act and the entire parent responsibility is for the Ministry of Environment Protection. This is Croatian territory we do not hand it over to anyone for use, but we use it according to our rules and requirements. If there is no interest in military exercise and do not perceive military exercise just as... shooting, that part we are investing in the Mays system that Croatia paid out of budget funds I will tell you because you mentioned JNA, I did not mean to go back so backwards but relative to the military actions of the former military and the current military actions on the Slunj polygon are now 5% of any value. We've introduced a mallet system, the more we use the simulators to avoid these colors of action. Well, that's where our people live, and of course we have to look out for them. Among other things, the simulation exercise is cheaper than this live exercise. She will be in training and accepting standard operating procedures. We have this ambition and we have to work on it. The last exercise that was held there was the engineering exercise of the SIBRIG brigade member states, they made one bridge across the Koran, they made 11 kilometers if I remember the regional water supply well. And that kind of exercise is important to us. It's not just about combat exercises because we can replace them in a different way. Sometimes we have to do them too because it's not the same thing just to work on the simulator and practice and have one combat shot. And that must be it. But what's important is that simply as far as Slunj and other polygons are concerned, other training sites that have been there with military or as separate special polygons we absolutely want and we want to respect the provisions of the Nature Protection Act. The study gave the elements that are our obligations. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning exercises control and we are absolutely open to representatives of local self-government and regional self-government and have the right to information. As for some of the elements contained in the conclusion of the Environmental Protection Committee and related to the further reconstruction of the Ministry of Defence not only of the armed forces of the Ministry of Defence, certain activities will be separated from the MRLs in terms of forest management, we do not want to deal in the long term. So according to the Law of the Forests, others will rule and then there will be obligations, those rents and all that comes out of the law. I hope I've answered all the questions since they're here before me and the board's conclusions. In certain conclusions, here is an example for the conclusion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, the first conclusion: "Before the arrival of foreign military troops, the Ministry of Environmental Protection will carry out certain actions and monitoring." It doesn't matter if that monitoring is going to work if foreign troops come. And we practice, and the Croatian military exercises there and this monitoring refers to the exercises of the Croatian Army. It's not about foreign armed forces, it's about monitoring our activities. We absolutely accept those obligations. In view of such a formulation on behalf of the promoter, the Government does not accept the conclusions and accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee as it technically coordinates and corrects the content of the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45087	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45088	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that he answered all the questions. One issue of the HSP Club was when expert teams will be set to negotiate and take care of Croatia's interests on behalf of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45089	I'm closing the debate. On the final proposal of the Law on Forests, which should now be on the agenda, we will hold a debate next week because the Minister and State Secretarys are justly absent to prepare for Croatia's entry into the European Union, so they would still try. The final proposal of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America which acts on behalf of the Government of the United States regarding the use of airspace, polygons, air and maritime facilities and training ports by the US Armed Forces in Europe. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. We can vote Mr. Palaric. That's what you need. The local self-government bill. There's a song called "Good Morning." Information is power. We delayed that vote while the government. How about a score? I find that with 73 votes for, 11 abstentions, 11 against the proposed law. We also have two suggestions for conclusions. First Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Please engage, which minister did not accept. We can vote. The result? For conclusion 30, abstentions 14, 51 against. He's not accepted. And we have a conclusion from the club of HSP advocates that also the government does not accept. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 16 votes for, 11 abstentions and 65 against. They didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow at 11 am is the annual session of the Croatian Parliament on the occasion of the day, the holidays of independence, but we will also ask the representatives and MPs to be present as much as possible. However, the Croatian Parliament has made that decision and it would be good for the representatives to be at the meeting. Continuing Tuesday's October 12th session. I'm sorry, 12th, so Wednesday. On Wednesday, the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union should also set out a proposal for a resolution concerning the monitoring and monitoring of negotiations, and would include the establishment of a platform on the agenda Wednesday. And after that the resolution was discussed and adopted on Thursday or Friday. And we start with point 12 and beyond. Proposal for a decision to assist municipalities for damages. Please, colleagues and colleagues, take your papers and our papers with you from the bench and put them under the bench to keep it clean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fundamental feature of the law of judicial and public record insurance is the demand for creditors in movable matters and rights in relation to the classical publishing right, as the subject of insurance remains in the possession of debtors, thus allowing him to be exploited economically and the believer has no obligation to keep and maintain the subject of insurance. A public record of the rights of insurance on movements and rights shall be established with this relevant register and the interest of third parties of potential creditors shall be protected. In this way, as a feature of the law, it is determined that both the creditworthiness of small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen, which will of course result in economic growth. The law lays down the structure and content of the registers, types, assumptions and impact of the enrolment, the procedure to determine and implement the enrolment. The register is kept within the Financial Agency on electronic form, it is networked and communicated to all of Croatia. The register is public and will be enabled to see the register through the Internet. Searching the register will be enabled according to the criteria of the person and the criteria of the case. The register shall be accompanied by the registration of the rights of movement, shares, share and business share of the company and the insurance of the search takes place in the register and the registration procedure shall be initiated on a proposal from the party or by official duty and shall decide on the registration of the registration service. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide for additional financial resources because it would be independent of the state budget and would be entirely market-based and service-based to create the necessary resources for its work. This is a second reading. There were no additional proposals in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45093	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45094	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister! The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal of the Law on the Register of Judicial and Public Insurance Enquiry of Believers in Moving Things and Rights. If we accept the definition that the claimable right is indeed a right on a foreign facility, which is authorised by the rightful believer to settle its claims from the value of the pawned object, if the asset debtor fails to fulfil the committed obligation, it is apparent that the right of the issuer is the basic purpose of removing the double uncertainty in which each believer is in relation to the settlement of his claims and it consists primarily of uncertainty relating to the scope of the debtor's assets on the one hand. And on the other hand, the uncertainty of the former settlement of other believers. It is this law consistent with the fact that so far there is no public record of movements and other property rights on which the basis of the insurance of creditors and introduces the publicity of their existence with two basic and very important protections. First, the protection of creditors who have acquired these rights and other types of protection, so the protection of third parties who would like to secure their claims to the same debtor in a way that is safe and timely to reach information on the creditworthiness of the debtor. Of course, in the application of the provisions of this law, it is unusually important to divide things precisely by the criteria of natural properties, i.e. the division of movable things and real estate, and because of the different legal regime regarding the acquisition of ownership rights but also not only the rights of ownership but also other real rights. While or, for example, while real estate and real rights are entered in land books held in the land’s library departments of municipal courts, which is not valid, it is not prescribed for moving things. The differentiation of movables and real estate is very important and must also be taken into account in civil, judicial proceedings, but also in the context of the application of the executive procedure. At this very point we come to the core, I would dare say an object regulated by the proposed law. Namely, to distinguish the pygnus from the mortgage means to distinguish the right to property from the possibility of regulation and from all aspects of the right to exercise on mobile matters. As a basis, i.e. the basis of the insurance of claims arising from debt-religious relations. Here, it is important to note the difference in the definition of things according to the criteria of pertinence or the approach in relation to the specific provisions of this Law. In fact, it may also be a moving thing, however, it is in its intention to be considered a real estate if it serves the economic use of real estate. For example. The tractor, the plow, the car, the agricultural machinery of a agricultural good is considered as real estate as well as only good. However, in this context, the provision of Article 6(2) provides that the right to a property belonging to a property may be described in the register if the property is not subject to a mortgage or any other right covered by that acceptance, as evidenced by the land extract of course. By enrolling the right to such a movement in the register, of course it loses the property of the attachment on that movement. Furthermore, it is extremely important to point out that this Law promotes the principle of the public, which is necessary for the proposed regulation to come into life in its fullness. State the provisions of this Act, which states that everyone is authorised to ask for access to the register and that anyone may request copies from the main book or copy of the document collection. Among other things, each person shall be empowered to request the registration of a register by means of a search to determine whether a person in the register is designated as an executive, opponent of insurance or debtor, or as a master, insurance or verifier, all of which would be required to search according to the criteria of the person on the one hand, or, on the other hand, we have a required request by the criteria of the subject, which means that a particular case of insurance may be requested whether any particular subject of insurance has been subject to registration for the purpose of ensuing a person or for the benefit of another person. When we talk about what rights and measures are involved when a direct entry is made, it is necessary to specify them in the next sense. Therefore, the right to exercise movement, law, shares, share or business share in a commercial company, the right to the totality of matters, the transfer of the right of ownership on the movement or transfer of other rights under the law, the transfer of shares, the measures for the prohibition of alienation or the burden on the subject of insurance and the right of ownership on the movement which is retained on the basis of the contract if its duration is longer than 1 year. The other provisions of the law in question should also be supported in the sense in which they prescribe the way and implement the registration itself and form the register as a public book. That is why, and for the purposes of the provisions on liability and internal organisation of the registration service, it is necessary to lay down the solidarity of the registration service with respect to the Republic of Croatia and it is not necessary to bring it into line with the registration service itself as provided for in Article 5(2) in which the correction was carried out. In conclusion and accordingly, presented as one truly good, good and necessary newspaper of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, the final draft law on the register of judicial and public notebook insurance... Believers in moving things and rights absolutely support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45095	Thank you very much. HNS club, PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45096	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Register of Court and Note Insurance on Movements, is another step in which it should go. A step in making creditors feel more secure than debtors in this country's business. Which wasn't always the case. Such a bill, in particular the fact that the legal position and the persons and matters of movement over which the exercise becomes public property. Namely, the register, of course, exists in paper form, but it exists in electronic form, and that electronic form according to the provisions of this Act is on the network, everyone is authorized to enter and search for two things. To look for the business standing of a person with whom he intends to do business and how business is a matter that would potentially be guaranteed by that person a fair and reasonable business. Such a way, such a way of regulating business relations actually does not exist and cannot be objecting. The register is headed to FINI according to the provisions of this Act. It is likely that some other place is not even possible to spend in Croatia, although it seems to me that it is a little dangerous for all the jobs that the state regulates financial relations between citizens and legal persons to trust, to trust FINI. Last time we did it with that stop shop concept. And they wondered if FINA actually had the possibilities of human, professional, spatial and all others to achieve that concept. The answer we didn't get, we didn't even get a report in the meantime how the concept of one stop shop works. I would be pleased if, in the nearest possible opportunity, after the adoption of this Act, I am convinced that it will be accepted, we will get a report from Ms. Secretary on how this works, whether there are mistakes, whether FINA is qualified for this job or if there are any problems. In fact, certain fences are already being set up in the very text of the law, a request service is being established. And the registration service that is not a legal person, FINA is a legal person who suffers the consequences of certain errors, wrong entries of data, delays in data, etc. The registration service can't do that, it can do FINA, so FINA can be responsible for the mistakes of its service. On the other hand, it has been pointed out that the Republic of Croatia is also jointly responsible for certain errors in the procedure which may cause certain material damage to interested parties. If that is not already regulated in the law, I think it would be necessary to adopt a sublegal act, to see the exact circumstances, some regulation, to see the exact circumstances when, in what proportion and in what way is the state responsible for the mistakes, and when is the responsibility of the FINA itself? In the end, this job will be financed so that interested parties will pay for the enrolment. So the paid work is most often for him who is responsible for it, who performs it, and who is responsible for it. Both morally and materially. If he makes a mistake in this business, it makes no sense for me to have the state to be, to have the state in full responsibility for the mistakes made by one service, one institution that is a legal person and has its own account and can also pay for its mistakes from it. I believe that either in this Act or in the sublaws, the relationship between the service of FINA and the party should be clearly defined. It doesn't seem quite clear to me in which of the parties in which he pays for the situation, he pays for registration services in the register. That could be more clearly worked out. I'm saying whether by this act or, or by some sublegal act, it's necessary that the registration service can function normally. The only real grudge we find in the text of the law is found in Article 18, which speaks when the right of ownership speaks of the moment when the right of ownership passes from debtor to believer. The text of the law says by enrollment, by moment, hour, day, minute of entry into the register, which has not been the case so far, until now, that right has passed on to the believer at the moment of the agreement. That's more convenient for a believer. In any case, it would take a certain time to put it in the register, and we think it would be another small step towards a clearer and more direct guarantee of the rights of the credentials. All in all, I consider this a good bill worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45097	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DC Club of HSLS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45098	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. First I'll welcome Mr. Vice President and welcome him to the Parliament after I hope for a successful treatment. Well, here's a law that belongs to these kinds of laws that are passed in the opinion of our multi-state club, more legal certainty and more life security. This is one law that I'm sure the little one will be most pleased with. Those who have so far felt the most injustices in this past period where they have not been able to settle their claims. For example, I believe many children whose parents do not meet their obligations regularly. Various machinations ran away from the fulfillment of their legal and fatherly duties. This Law will be enjoyed by many small businesses, many small businessmen who could also not trace the various assets of those who fled to carry out their duties. Therefore, our club has all the support of this law because I say it creates more legal certainty, more life security. Now we will no longer be able to make it easy for individuals to enter religious debt relations without doing what they have accepted or not paying for what they have spent. It is good that this law is with FINA because FINA is gradually developing as an agency both human and organisational and spatial. It is networked all over Croatia so that it will not be possible for us to say that one believer or one inquiry will be entered in several places. It will be one location located, and it is good what colleagues have said is open to the public and that anyone can have insight. We have one kind of, sort of, one specific market for these claims that have been made public. Mostly our club will support, give its voice to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45099	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. That would have exhausted the list of speakers. The Minister won't speak to you in any particular way. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45100	Final proposal of the Law on the register of judicial and public records, the search of creditors in moving things and rights. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I'm asking the Minister of Justice to show up on the proposed amendments. ... Both agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They become an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes for and 2 abstentions accepted by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45101	We move to the 11th point: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 335; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government's representative, the Proposer, want it? Ms. Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45102	Thank you very much. It could be said that this is a technical amendment to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, although at first glance it seems not. It is about the division of the Municipal Court in Zagreb as the largest court, the Municipal Court not only in the territory of Croatia but in Europe, the court with 156 judges and 726 officials and tenants in two courts, to two specialised courts. So at the Municipal Court, at the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb. Since the building for the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb is already finished and that only the amendment of this Law or division of the Court is pending, I suggest that you accept this Bill, since it will significantly facilitate the work and speed up the resolution of the number of delays that exist on this case for the time being, and by specialising the Civil Court and the Criminal Court in Zagreb, we will also gain quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45103	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go. I gave up, thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45104	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a very short and simple legal text of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts, and I would say, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community certainly supports its adoption and supports it to be adopted in an urgent procedure for the reason that the Minister said it was a technical solution, and I would say that it is actually a rationalisation that will contribute to the quality, or that will contribute to the number of remaining cases which is particularly large in, or according to statistics, the largest statistics in large courts, and mainly in the Zagreb Municipal Court. Certainly, the draft strategy provides for the rationalisation of the courts and clubs of the Croatian Democratic Community certainly supports this large, I would say, the massive Zagreb Municipal Court, because it is indeed a municipal court that is in Zagreb for about a million inhabitants. I also have municipal courts that are for areas of municipalities and materials with far fewer inhabitants. So we support the adoption of this law. One is the doubt about the demarcation south of the Sava River, how, therefore, without urban districts, south of the Sava River, it is a suggestion to consider whether those south of the Sava court will then be more burdened, in fact, by these two now municipal courts. So, the Croatian Democratic Community club imitates the adoption of this law and supports the urgent process of its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45105	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual, Mr. Representative Velimir Pleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, with interest, I followed the 100th session of the Croatian government, which was held in Čakovec, where such a bill from that government's session went to us MPs. I personally support this proposal for legal text, as it is likely to be more effective in the trial and in any case a rationalisation of the trial in the City of Zagreb, or so far this great court, as said the minister with the largest number of judges, 156 and 726 employees of court officials and tenants. However, I also want to make it clear to this occasion that, on the basis of this present law, this way of thinking about rationalisation will not come very soon to the point that we are talking about rationalisation and structure and the number of courts in the Republic of Croatia, respectively. First of all, I have to say that I want to believe that without previous detailed analysis of what is good, and what is not good for certain areas, I would like to approach the merger of certain municipal courts and the abolition of certain municipal courts. Because I think we should look at one thing that's happening, which is that we should take care of both in history, tradition and specificity, the culture of the area for which individual courts have been established so far and not only need to automatically bring them together because, according to some statistical reports, the number of cases that such courts, possibly if they are smaller, do not meet some criteria that, by certain criteria, the ministry itself and the government could no longer exist. So I am for this rationalization, I am for what is proposed by the new law, but, I say, at this point I would like to make it clear that we should not, in some way, be limited to, somewhere here, separate a large court and create two smaller, or specialised courts, it would be said, a court that will facilitate the trial, and in other cases, after a few months, we will be those who will abolish certain courts, i.e. bring two municipal courts together and thus reduce the availability of the citizens' trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45107	Thank you very much. Does the motion lady want it? No, I don't. [[Intruder: No.]] I'm closing the debate. At 5:00 and 15 minutes, I'm asking the MPs and the MPs to gather to vote, so in, here's another 25 minutes. Now break to 17 and 15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45108	And we have a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. The adoption of this Act requires a majority of all MPs, at least 77 votes. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 91 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue to work at the 16th session, you have the consolidated text of the agenda on your benches. We are going to - Proposal for a decision to grant one-time assistance to cities and municipalities to partially mitigate the consequences of the storm and storm damage from November 2004 as well as the cold and application of snow from February 2005 – Proposer of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. The State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elemental disasters has submitted on the basis of the Protection Act against the elemental disasters of the Proposed Decision. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, finance and state budget and local and regional self-government. I would like the President of the Committee, Agent Nick Rebic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45110	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The State Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters under the Law on Protection against elemental disasters proposes to the Croatian Assembly to make a decision to grant one-time assistance to cities and municipalities for partial mitigation of the consequences of the storm and storm damage from November 2004, as well as the frost and snow application from February 2005. This Decision would give the Croatian Parliament one-time grant of grants to cities and municipalities, or damaged by an elemental accident. The decision covers damages that have suffered direct damage to agricultural cultures and long-term crops due to hurricane wind and storm storms, and frost and snowland from February 2005. It should be noted that the aid does not entail compensation for damages or damage to infrastructure and construction. An elemental accident in November 2004 affected the area of 4 counties, i.e. 72 cities and municipalities. Following the deduction of requests which do not comply with the legal requirements, there remained requirements from 2 counties, i.e. 18 cities and municipalities. In these units of local self-government, total direct agricultural damage has been confirmed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy of 38 million 391 million kuna. According to the current methodology for assessing the damages from elementary accidents, the aid is given 5% of the confirmed damage of a million 919 thousand and 79 kuna. Elemental disasters, low temperatures, cold and snow from February 2005 affected the area of one county. The ministry confirmed direct agricultural damage to 4 local self-government units totalling 9 million 621 thousand and 300 kuna. How the same methodology determines 5% of the estimated damage is 478 thousand and 253 kuna. Therefore, the Decision allocated assistance to 2 counties, i.e. 22 cities and municipalities. The proposal for granting aid is based on the Law on the protection of natural disasters to be calculated under the prescribed single methodology for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. It is important to note that aid is provided in the State budget. The amount of these funds provided in the 2004 budget was 5 million and 600 thousand kuna, and the amount for this year is 6 million kuna. In fact, these are more than modest means and only the Croatian Parliament decides on the proposal of the State Commission on the spending of these funds. It is also important to know if there is insufficient funds in the account, according to Article 33 of the Law, the current stocks of the State budget may be used. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also decides on the use of these funds. A proposal for the use of these funds shall be submitted to the Government by the President, or by the Secretary of State of the Commission, with the conclusion reached at the meeting of the State Commission. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Croatia intervened twice during the course of 2004 and on 2 December, aid was granted for damages incurred from 1 January to 30 June, from floods, storms and beatings of 13 million and 912 thousand 910 kuna. And secondly with a regular government decision of... December aid for damages incurred from 1 July to 15 September from floods, fighting and storms of 4 million kunas. Unfortunately, we are witnessing an increasing number of natural disasters and the increasing damages that are caused by their actions. I can't protect myself from that, but today we see that both the most powerful and the richest countries are completely helpless when they are hit by an elemental disaster. And the state to resuscitate the consequences even raises loans even though, I say, it's one of the richest countries in the world. I would like to inform you that a large number of requests for assistance in excess of one billion kuna have been made to the State Commission this year. And now we already know that with the modest 6 million kuna in the budget, we cannot, without the intervention of the Government from the current stocks of the State budget, meet the requirements. Because right now, if we use an existing methodology to calculate the damage, it goes beyond 50 million kuna. We are aware and we already know in advance that due to the great damages caused by the floods, the State Commission will soon propose to the government to intervene. The State Commission shall analyse the situation in the past year, taking into account that, according to the existing single methodology, damage is being calculated by an increasing number of units of local self-government, deciding on the return of funds to the State budget because they are so small that it is impossible to divide them without irriminating applicants, i.e. damaged, and local authorities leading to an unspeakable and unspeakable situation. So, you get sometimes some local self-government units get 100 kuna help. So, not only is it no help at all. This, in fact, and what was seen by the leaders in the local self-government destroys their reputation because simply this methodology was such that it was appropriate perhaps at a time when the damage mainly did not end in the damaged but always the local leaders had the opportunity to re-apply it to some other purpose, to some perhaps general good. But here we see today when funds by amending the 97th Law, therefore, funds to help victims of natural disasters cannot be redeployed. So he has to go back to the State Budget. Not even the State Commission or the Ministry of Agriculture can re-schedul those funds in those units of local self-government, and we have witnessed that a leader down in Dalmatia has re-scheduled funds on his own and ended up in court. Therefore, the State Commission is aware that this model of aid to victims of natural disasters in agriculture survived and... formed a working group that should make new appropriate proposals by the end of the year and also a new Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on elemental disasters. The task force held a constitutional session at the 9th month, we requested some data from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and as soon as they arrived at the state commission we will begin work. But there will be more debate on this matter in the House until we have better regulation of this area. Today, we decide to grant grants of 2 million 397 thousand 331 kuna, noting that those who have been damaged by these elementary disasters are waiting for almost a year, and that is why I suggest you support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45111	Thank you very much. The Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget for Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP MPs' club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45112	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this Decision because, in fact, such minimum funds, which for the two most vulnerable counties, amount to slightly less than 2 and a half million kunas, which are mostly due at the end of 2004, indeed with a delay of almost a year is not a good help. So we will support this decision despite that. We also criticise why it has waited so long for the 2004 damage to be compensated at the minimum at the end of 2005. There is no reason why this could not have been done before, and in these two counties, there is still a minimum of funds. We have now heard from the President of the Commission that the problem is the law, that the problem is minimal funds, that is no justification for the Committee because it was supposed to be the body that should have been warned to the Government if it was to amend the existing law or to warn that there are too little resources in the budget in view of the basic disasters that occurred in 2004. We haven't practically solved anything, or the least help to those who were killed by elementary disasters in 2005. When we discussed budget rebalancing here a few days before the summer break then a few of us proposed that the item in the budget relating to the resolution of the consequences of the elementary disasters and which amounts to only 6 million kunas increase. That is when you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, warned us that we cannot give such an amendment because the government did not touch that item. Also, it was not enough for the government to make its own amendment, when it could already be seen how much damage these funds have been increasing in Croatia. That this is possible from the experience of both the Government and the Parliament in 2003 when there were huge consequences of drought in agriculture, that through rebalancing, through the combing of all items in the budget even found 400 million kuna to help those who suffered, whose production suffered from drought. So, we estimate that it is irresponsible and unacceptable for those who are at risk, who suffered production, who suffered personal property, because this year there has been a lot of damage from the floods, and only at the end of the year, with some minimum funds, to compensate for the damages of the previous year, which means that for 2005 no one will actually receive any compensation. We are actually calling for the government to address these problems in a one-time manner, that this is a subjective relationship, that it is then granted by subjective criteria, and that it is high time for the Government to manage both the strength and the courage to propose once again the budget rebalancing, and that this item provides enough resources to mitigate the consequences of the elementary disasters that have hit our citizens in 2005 and that at least some minimum means ensure compensation for them, not that what the colleague said then in municipalities and cities can't really share those funds because they are in such miserable terms that it is actually an insult to our citizens. Once again, we will support this Decision but we appeal to the Government to secure funds in the budget, even if another budget rebalance is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45113	Thank you very much. National Minority Representatives' Club, respected Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45114	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Minorities Club will normally support this decision to grant one-time assistance for the elemental disasters, however, I join my colleague Zgrebec that it is really a little embarrassing today to discuss the problem a year later. First of all, it's about giving only 5% of the amount of damage done, let's not forget that the cycle in agriculture is very slow, and that 5% might mean something at the moment of damage, at the moment of recovery of production, unfortunately we're talking about it a year later when these funds are literally going to get lost and it won't have any effect. I'm sorry that today we can't discuss the elemental damages that occurred in June and July when the huge damages hit the areas of the Bjelovar-Bilogian County, when 20 thousand hectares almost had total damage, when there was just as much damage in Međimurje County, the damage that totally destroyed the crops, the damages that the farmers threw on their knees and who really had these 5% might have been sown among the crops to help secure food for livestock farming, because they were cattle counties. However, I ask the question when will we begin to discuss the damages in that area in the first place. Do our committees really, starting from municipal, county to state, take a year past all the techniques to process the data? The funds are really small but we are keeping an eye on them, and I think we should open a discussion here on how to channel these funds on time or within 30 days of such funds being deployed. I don't believe it's possible to establish damage, I don't believe it's possible for the data to arrive, I say with all the technique today to the government, to the Parliament, and really in time to enlarge it, and not to give it, here at the end, at a time when only the captains are fighting the battle how to split it up a little bit, so that every day they don't listen to the revolt of the peasants who come for that little asset and who are just warning "that you gave it to me in time, maybe it would be any use, this is just closing their eyes, is how we did help." Therefore, I appeal that when the commission discusses the damages for sure and the greater resources needed, but to really see how to shorten the time for such assistance to actually have any such effect. Thank you very much. We'll support it, normally on behalf of the club, but we're really asking to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45115	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45116	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Lately, in recent years, natural disasters have simply been no longer an exception, they are part of almost everyday life. Changes in climate conditions, human concern for the environment, various disorders are simply one continuing concern and continuing concern about possible elemental disasters that are happening around the world today. In a very small part, Croatia experienced all the power of nature, i.e. the anger of nature. Of course, such events and further developments that can be predicted should be tried to prevent and act preventively in terms of protection and in terms of what is necessary when certain consequences arise which result from the elemental disasters. This proposal of the Single Aid Decision, we at the HSS Club see that this is a pretty easy attempt to cloud things, because in nature it does not represent any serious help. It is not even structured to look just, because it accidentally or does not skip certain accidents that have occurred, is not fair in either content or structure. Of course, we need to review the way we're going to deal with these kinds of phenomena in the future, and I said there's more and more of them, there's more of them on the mainland, there's more of them at sea, there's more of them in our wider and further environment. They cause enormous damage and it is evident that we will have to look for new ways to protect citizens, protect the public and protect nature in a way that people and society can cope with these consequences. In the very decision that is understandable, but insufficient in terms of, I said, most of the funds and in terms of the structure to which they relate. It is evident that I have had an incomprehensible lack of understanding, and this often happens as regards the Sibenik-Knin County, which was not recorded in terms of the elemental disasters that occurred precisely in the period targeted, and at the end of 2004 in Sibenik was a major elemental disaster, a huge flood that caused the city council of Sibenik and the county declared a major disaster, the estimates were delivered and surprised that this was not found on the list of elementary disasters and the whole series of events related to this summer, which was also recorded by the Sibenik-Knin County where large direct costs were caused, large and adverse consequences resulting from the storms that occurred in August 3, 3rd of August, which were also recorded in terms of continuity, for the first time. It's almost tornado, so it was moving at a speed of 180 kilometers per hour and it caused damage of over 3 million, direct damage, this in the town of Sibenik was about 4 million kuna. So I just don't think that there's any need for this little asset, which is available, not to try to find it, even if the principle of justice, because it's, when there's no principle of enough to settle the needs, even though this isn't a kind of damage settlement, it's a one-time help that's given to show good faith. I think that, if possible, such phenomena should be corrected, if possible, in this report, complete it with the things that are simply happening. Secondly, I think that given the frequency of these phenomena and that the answers should be spotless, that it is simply unacceptable to wait one year, and then to react, that the Parliament should make a decision on one-time assistance to cities and municipalities, that it should simply, given the knowledge that this is going to happen in the future, and given that it is about space, all these elemental disasters are happening in space. Usually it was the most attractive space, it was the coast, the sea, the islands, it was the agricultural land, it was the most attractive space in the country. That space has the right to its own rent. I think so. Good years should be left out and the state should be set aside for a particular Solidarity Fund from which citizens' needs, municipalities, cities, present needs will be met where they will be able to react and directly grant assistance where it is most needed, where it can be felt, where it can be carried painlessly as soon as possible. I don't think that solidarity is just solidarity for those who don't, but solidarity with nature. We simply have to understand that you can't, you can't have the most important resources used for any production, either for service activities, for anything, in the best years you have to leave part of the reserve for those bad years. Therefore, there are several models, more ways to deal with this, and since it is almost common and almost daily challenges, I think this should be resolved in the context of a serious legislative solution and a project that simply would not suffer exceptions, it should not allow criticism at the expense of the structure and at the expense of the amount of funds, it should not leave any doubt that it has elements of discretionary behaviour or rights, but simply should be the result of the feeling and need of society that those who have had trouble, an accident, which is caused by a natural elemental disaster, have the right to equal assistance and in an equal way to organise their lives in relation to the consequences that have occurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45117	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45118	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry! Today, we are discussing a proposal for a decision to grant one-time assistance to citizens and municipalities to partially mitigate the consequences of storm and storm damage from November 2004 and frost and snow applications from February 2005. I can't right away and I don't agree with Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's report, which she said in her presentation that they had happened without criteria. It's simply impossible because we have a state commission that we have appointed ourselves. The State Commission has done its job correctly, and there can be no speech of division without criteria, but I think it has been done quality, well and simply with great respect to the criteria. With this decision, the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters proposes to grant one-time grants to cities and municipalities for the elemental accident of the hurricane wind and storm storms of November 2004. This decision includes damages that suffered direct damage to agricultural cultures and long-term crops both from the hurricane wind and storm storms from November 2004 and snow and frost from February 2005. With this decision, the State Commission proposes assistance for two counties, both Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska for 22 cities and municipalities totaling 2 million 397 thousand kuna, representing 5% of the confirmed amount of total damage by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. For the elemental accident of the hurricane wind and storm storms of November 2004, total direct agricultural damage for 18 cities and municipalities, the commission proposes a one-time aid of 1 million kunas, which also accounts for 5% of the total confirmed damage. For the elemental accident of low-temperature colds with snow applications from February 2005, it is directly harmful to agriculture for five municipalities and cities confirmed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy, the commission proposes a one-time aid amounting to 478 thousand kuna, which is also 5% of the total recognised damage. Furthermore, this decision proposes that the entire amount of aid be allocated to cities and municipalities at once, and they are obliged to pay immediately to natural and legal persons who have suffered major disasters. It is also clear that there are certain criteria and that money will come in time and in the right hands. Unfortunately, the majority of these natural disasters have left agricultural households who are largely not providing their property, and therefore the damage is significantly more severe. I come from the Brod-Posavina County itself, which almost every year is experiencing natural disasters mostly from ice and cold, and two months ago, we had twice declared the county a natural disaster due to major floods, and I am taking the opportunity to thank the Croatian Government for the quick help to remove the consequences of the elementary disasters in Slavonski Brod, Vrpolje and other places in Brod-Posavina County. Finally, due to the increasing occurrence of the elemental disasters affecting our landscapes, I would suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia ensure a significantly higher amount of funds for the next financial year to address the consequences of the elemental disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45119	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45120	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The name of the motion for a decision sounds quite bombistic when the proposal for a decision to grant one-time assistance to cities and municipalities to partially mitigate the consequences of the storm and storm damage from November 2004 and the cold and snow applications of February 2005 is read. And now that there is a report from the Croatian Parliament that we discussed today on the proposal of this decision and when it is published without the content of people who have suffered damage, it means that the inhabitants of Croatian citizens in the area of 22 municipalities and the city will think there is something solved and nothing is actually solved. Nothing has been solved because of the fact that only if you enter the motion for a decision so you see what these amounts of funds imagine a variant of what people in the area of the Municipality of Kula Norinska who receive 2 thousand and 796 kuna are going to think, that is the entire municipality. Or, let's say, Brela 3000 314 kuna, which all this says is that this system does not work or is wrongly set because it is obvious that the process of determining damage through a committee at the level of municipalities, cities, counties and even at the level of the state far more cost than in the Brelas themselves or in the municipality of the Tower of Norin. And we can talk about other municipalities. So the more expensive the procedure was to determine the damages that are now being granted to the municipalities and cities. And it's obvious that those municipalities and cities are going to bring it back because they're going to. Imagine how the Brela municipality is now going to divide those 3,000 314 kunas. How is he going to share? You know what the number of the damages is, and let's say we get that somewhere 20 or 30 kuna, and that's really funny, we get into one ridiculous decision. Okay, that's our laws. But just when we're talking about those laws, then we should say the following. First, it should be said that the whole system is not well set up, that important changes must be made under the Law on the Protection of Essential Accidents and that means regulating that relationship related to insurance against elemental disasters. It means one part let it go through municipalities and cities and counties that have to work and the other part we have to decide here to finance from the state budget. It's one part that's important to regulate and that's why my proposal is for the government to seriously entertain this issue and come up with a new proposal for a Law on Protection against elemental disasters. Now, the other problem is what the colleagues were saying. It's a problem that we don't have a system of protection and rescue from natural disasters. This means that civil protection is not in our function and many other components of that system. True, we have formed the State Administration for Protection and Rescue but given the money and everything it does then there is not enough money for the salaries of its employees, especially to form a system that will have both a head and a tail. That means he'll have information, he'll have a chain of command, he'll have strength and resources to intervene. And as part of this, we see the situation in the area of supply and everything else that is important in these situations that we have in order to react. Therefore, our proposal and my proposal is for the government to deal with this problem immediately. It must therefore go into amendments and additions, or the adoption of a new law, of a proposal to the Parliament, to give a new Law on protection against natural disasters, where this insurance system will be regulated against natural disasters. And the second part that we have to establish a system of protection and rescue because then we're going to do something, this is cheating, throwing dust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45121	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45122	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly refer to the decision to grant one-time assistance to citizens and municipalities. Well, it's probably by chance that this debate is being conducted today. And today I learned the same thing, so I watched "Croatia Today", where they warned that today is the World Day of Protection against elementary disasters. And it was warned that it was actually a global problem. We witness every day different cataclysms around the world that happen in which a lot of people are killed, therefore, as a result, therefore, the creation of huge material damages that destroy not only certain cities but also individual states. For example, one piece of information tells us that in 2004, such elemental disasters, cataclysms and so on were twice as unfortunately killed as in 2003, much more material damage was also done, and we can say the same thing about 2005, which is also marked by large cataclysmic elemental disasters from America, so on and so on. Croatia, therefore, has not been spared this kind of climate change, so unfortunately, in Croatia we are witnessing from year to year, so such elemental disasters are also more frequent, and they are also stronger than they were in previous years. For example, we were there, so we heard what was happening on Murter, what was the elemental accident there, so a leech that had never appeared in Croatia before. And also in one small space such as that of the Međimurje County this year we have declared a four-times natural disaster, i.e. a decision to declare a natural disaster. For example, it was declared in the 6th month 2005 since the storm storm with the fight, in the 8th month 2005, again as the elemental disaster of the fight, in the 8th month 2005 that, unfortunately, it would have been the biggest natural disaster here in 10 months, so it was the flood on the Mura River that caused the biggest damage, so 7,8 million kuna. The government intervened there, therefore, from a reserve with a million kuna which I think is too little, therefore, to these damages that occurred in Međimurje. I agree with my predecessor, therefore, that it is the whole system and that we are not all ready enough together, so that we respond to the challenges of nature itself. From the prevention itself, therefore, to prevent as little damage as possible from natural disasters, e.g. since the fighting, we know that anti-urban protection in Croatia has been blocked for almost a few years, and this has already been a lot of words in this House, so our crops are almost unprotected as far as fighting itself, farmers themselves are trying to solve it, by buying and installing networks, means physical protection, also by insurance, and in using some new initiatives in Slavon-Baranja County, also in Međimurje County, so they started initiatives for a different use than fighting, it is with the use of planes in that part. It is also known that Croatia has only 1.5 seems to me to be a percentage of the farming area that is irrigated, meaning the agricultural area, our ornaments, therefore, meadows are quite sensitive to climate change, especially as regards droughts, as far as flood defenses are concerned, there is also such a weak situation, this flood in Međimurje has unfortunately shown that we were not ready enough for this flood, not built dikes, municipalities, did not have any bags simply to defend against floods in the first wave, etc. And also as for prevention, it was weak, therefore, and the equipment, the poor training of people, was also the weak harmony of different resistors and those who had to take care to protect the space and people who were located. It didn't work, or neither does civil protection now, there's no consistency between the Ministry of the Interior, so volunteer fire companies, etc., and so on, and so on, so that's what we have to do urgently. Also, at the very end when damage is done, that damage should be compensated in some way. We heard that this budget for 2005 was prepared only 6 million kuna as some compensation for damages, those 6 million kunas it is only a drop in the sea, so that nothing can be done in view of the damages that have taken place, so that the government would have to invest there, and prepare the next year, and certainly big funds not only for compensation, but also for improving the overall, overall system for combating elementary disasters, because it is expected, therefore, that from year to year, such elemental disasters will be more and more, therefore, stronger. As far as insurance is concerned, our farmers need to be instructed here, so they need help, they need to be subsidized at the beginning of the interest, etc. So here today, when it came to this World Day Against Essential Accidents, it was said that one dollar of prevention was invested, so on one dollar invested in the prevention of defence of various elementary disasters comes a seven-dollar savings. So, in the right sense, this prevention comes to terms in order to prevent damages, and we need to make 7 times less invested, therefore, in prevention to prevent these damages from happening. Unfortunately, that consciousness has not yet been developed in us, so I appeal to everyone who is competent to try and, therefore, think that we are investing in the future and not that we are now discussing how to share these small funds with those who need them very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45123	Thank you very much. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Elections and Designs and Administrative Affairs scheduled a meeting of the Committee today at 10:30 at the "Janko Draskovic" hall. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45124	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Pavlic gave a good... when he said that you really... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Prevention that you can save actually seven new dollars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our people also have a beautiful saying in wisdom when they say it is better to prevent it than heal it. And apparently, the fact that today's world celebrates, that is, the need to mark this day and show that we've really made a pretty big deal of nature and what's really going on with these tsunamis, the need, these Louisianas, New Orleans, and we can't, and neither can Croatia escape from that fact that it's really not easy to fight with nature. What makes me a parliamentary representative with mild discomfort is that today we are discussing something that happened almost a year ago and it is very difficult for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to explain and in the meantime they also suffered the damages of some other cities, some other municipalities, some other county that they will only come in line. Obviously, this principle of solidarity that our Croatian Parliament is showing is good, which shows that there is a consciousness in us that what is happening to others happened to us tomorrow, but that principle of solidarity will really make sense if something more prompt happens to us. Manny, I am fully aware that a certain procedure must pass that it is not possible to resolve it overnight but certainly this moment for the citizens of Osijek-Baranja County of Podgorica or some others who suffered damage in August, September this year that they also, that they do not create one false impression that they will only come in line much later than they do today that we are solving the problem of these two counties and some other cities and municipalities. That's why I'm only telling this little appeal to the state commission that these things that they have to do to do something, something more spotty and thus, just to show that this, this principle of solidarity is, and that it can, act and that citizens will feel very quickly, feel that those who have suffered and that the damage will be compensated more quickly. And we think it still makes sense because when it's been a while then I say performances and frustrations and resignations and it's this very feeling that no one, that nobody cares, and obviously it's not true. I also agree that the funds must be increased. That something must happen in the system itself. That kudikamo needs a certain education. I don't know, the same of, there's no colleague here, Jamesa Marasovic, I remember when he was the director of Croatian Waters that he was just saying that we actually have one relationship with, according to the phones and at all one, it's no problem to spend on cell phones that in the house, that I don't know both father and mother and children have cell phones, but when you have to pay, I don't know, fee for... We already have water, we have a problem, and then it just happens that, I don't know, the channels haven't been cleaned for a few years, and actually, besides these subjective or objective circumstances, there's a whole series of subjectives that could be prevented with one different approach. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And right there is the problem of both the Government and the Croatian Parliament just to work on education, to work on this process from... When an elemental accident occurs and to that, these final payments, this reaction to making that flow of time as small as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as a third, a little more money is foreseen in the budget, but I say obviously with nature you shouldn't joke and it turns out that these all, these green movements, ecosystems, make sense and that it also needs to be done as quickly as possible in Croatia. So my appeal is that the sooner it comes to the agenda of this, this county, or these cities and municipalities that had, this summer, had, also experienced certain problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45125	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's to saying at first that although today is the Day of Protection from elementary disasters, I don't think the Croatian Parliament is going to show itself, but I don't think it's our responsibility. I can't even speak too harshly to a colleague of Nikki who's the president of this state commission because I think that's where the gauges are set, right? Six million kunas. We have certain possibilities in that section. The law is very clear here, 5%. However, a very clear question is raised. What does that mean and what makes up? What does that mean to people? Will it help them at all? We've heard here that the cost of those who judge at all, and somewhere the cost and mail is greater than the damage people need to receive. The main question that's being asked here is what we're going to do with easing the effects of the flood damage. We're only talking about something that happened in November 2004 and something that happened in February 2005. I'll, uh, maybe you're not informed, but just a little bit of a reminder of what it looks like in numbers, and you need to know after this decision of 2000, 2 million and 700 thousand what it's worth to us is 3 million and 600,000 circuses in this part. And so far it seems like this to you: Zagreb County total damage of 83 million. Krapina-Zagorska 2 million and 700, Sisak-Moslavina 22 million, Karlovačka 6, Varazdinska 34, Koprivnica-križevačka 17 million, Bjelovarska 67, Primorje-Goranska 8, Ličko-Senjska million, Virovička 5, Požeška 32, Brodsko-Posaviska 11, Zadar million almost, Osijek 356 million. An indicator of how much this applies, how much damage there is from the flood in Slavonia. It's a Sibenik million, so... One million and a half million, Vukovar 55 million, 17 million Istrian, Dubrovnik 90 and 43 Međimurska. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A total of nearly a billion kuna. A billion kunas are floods, registered damages that we have, and we have 3 million and 600. Why are we even talking about this State Commission right now? I wouldn't want to be in the skin of Nika or the people there. I think it's about our decisions being made that there's nothing they can do about it. What do you need to do? You have to tell me where the government is now? The government can't, it can't take the measures it's taken so far. Which, I'd say, are not even firepower. They're well-intentioned, good ones. Let's go to Međimurska, I don't know a million-and-a-half, in Brod million kuna, but it's not a system. That... That's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They come there, and they help, and it can be said, "Here is the praise of the government, and thinks and so on." Systemic measure is a truly systematic measure. When estimates of total damage, and now we have them defined, then we have to make a system of how and how do these consequences alleviate? What measures do you bring? I'm going to remind myself of some of the measures that I think should definitely be brought in, brought in to help, but in an effective way to farmers. One measure is certain to be in this position, and that's what we said and put into rebalancing some more serious figure that can mitigate some of these damages that they are. Then to release the obligations of customers of monetary incentives for the production of bread grains, brewing barley and so on. Lectures and demonstrations of the minimum yield of these crops in 2005. What am I saying that for? You have examples that in some counties because people had to prove the reference yields did not receive incentives. Unfortunately, they were killed. It's a flood, they've got damage, and they haven't gotten the incentive. It should be recommended that county congregations and city councils be freed from paying the rent of a state agricultural land tenant. If they were killed in that area, they should be helped. If it's okay, and if they suggest it's okay. I think we should see what's up with the loans. You know our farmers in this area use loans. We need to see how much they can be helped in that section to reach a certain delay. What we have to stress here, and what affects every farmer of ours, which is something that unfortunately here is influenced by the world price market of this and that is blue oil. The blue oil and its price that goes here are 4 kunas, 30, 40 as far as it is now. Unbearable for our farmers. Unbearable. Ask the fishermen, ask everyone. Unbearable. We need to see how to help them in that part to ease some of what has hit them now. Here I think with these thoughts I'm not, not helping this committee safely with this decision, but warning of a critical situation, warning that unfortunately there is no money in the country today. There's no money. The incentives have been reduced. Ask our farmers, their incentives are reduced. They were struck again by the flood, before the drought and so on. We need to help them specifically, specifically. Not to talk about all the other consequences that come out of it. There used to be a lot of shouting about the enormous imports of previous years. Unfortunately, some now who have been very loud about it are now silent. But imports continue to rise drastically and at even higher rates. Without some concrete measures, there will be no stopping and especially if we do not protect our farmers in some way, in some ways we help. In particular, I think the Government must take concrete measures. When we get all the reports, you have to find money like he did in 2003 to bet the drought, so it has to be this year. Because we need to know, if then the total damage was about 2 billion kuna, and it was in the state budget of 400 million, if the damage is now worth a billion, we need to find 200 million kuna to ease the damage from the flood, the fighting, the frost and the storms that were. Unfortunately, on this day, I don't think we're going to show our face, even though we need to help with every kuna when there's money for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45127	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45128	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In this individual debate, I would like first of all to look at aspects relating to the sea, islands for the simple reason that in recent years almost such phenomena can have elements and have elements of an elemental disaster, meaning events that can negatively affect both the population and those who are there for vacation and tourism and all those who find themselves in that space. In recent years, certain winds have been almost frequented, almost cyclically repeated each year, and the fact that in the eighth month of this year, more than 70 000 vessels of various kinds, various contents and various intentions were on board or were present on the Adriatic, and that, according to the Split Institute's assessment, cyclical changes in weather behaviour and storms or certain cyclical disorders occurred almost in the Adriatic area every 24 hours. So every 24 hours in each part of the Adriatic, there was a disturbance that seriously threatened people, left victims, caused damage, and a common denominator for all of these events that were estimated to be more than 1300 just this summer of all sorts of such events that could be found, they can find their source for the reason that it happened, simply there was a change in nature, it was that the usual classic time for eight months and it is not so classic anymore, but it has all the elements of time in February. These and such changes simply in that great space even though we say about the Adriatic it's a small, closed pool, unfortunately it's a small closed pool just from here, when you find yourself on it then it's not like that. What am I going to say? Our system of protection, our system of rescue, our overall system that should be just above that growing phenomenon, and the growing phenomenon is that you have almost two and a half times as many ships and vessels on the Adriatic than you have ports where they will dock. So, at this point in the Adriatic, we have somewhere according to rough estimates in the marinas of 15 000 places, in the ports of the city another 5 to 6, 7. It's 20, 60-70,000 ships located at sea. Where are those ships going to be? Where are they gonna land? Where to find safety and who can help them at all? What kind of system can you organize to help spotably? The Coast Guard is, of course, one of the models of how to reach one full and purposeful protection. Another problem that arises, which should also be taken into account when it comes to the sea. On these vessels, people who are not the most common are not trained on the sea, but have passed their exam somewhere in Switzerland on a lake that has very little features and elements of weather phenomena. These people in very minor weather disorders are very difficult to help. I just happened to be a witness, you all remember there was on TV, that big storm, the cyclone, the hurricane, the leeches they call down the third August that passed in the middle of the Central Adriatic and that had a speed of over 180 kilometers an hour. I was somewhere at that time right at sea, but not in the center, but on the side. 20 minutes after passing that tornado every 10 meters, the sailboats were turned and the sails were down, and the locusts were up and there were something on the hills, on the islands and so on. That's where they settled in. In any case, it was something, a scene that simply could not be described, and the result, of course, should not have happened to them if they had certain experiences. But it wouldn't have happened if someone had announced in time that such a phenomenon was coming. So the issue of preventive action in such a wide area where every year a huge number of users are being addressed. In 10 years, there'll probably be more. At the same time, we do not have the infrastructure needed on the islands. We obviously need to agree whether for those ships benefiting from which Croatia as a tourist country is known in the world, that the Adriatic is the most popular destination for nautical tourism in Europe. We have to answer the question, are we going to make sure those ships have their own parking lot? You know, in Zagreb when we get to the car, you have to park somewhere, but no one's gonna let you park on the road. But at sea, you can park on the road, and the waterway at sea is called the road, and you don't have the parking lot, parking is a riverfront, berth, marina. It's not there. Therefore, I am saying this in the context of overall responsibility, but also in the overall understanding of what is happening. And then when a particular case happens that can end and tragically, a man can get hurt because he's got a lot of cases like that, then everyone's wondering where anything happened. However, things need to be very precise and clear in order to find answers. We need to know what level the Adriatic can receive. How many Adriatic ships can be on the Adriatic during that day, and in the event of weather accidents, it can be placed anywhere and in which way and where it should be settled and who will inform him of the possible arrival of a certain time disturbance. These are very important points of view and very important things that should be solved and arranged. I'm not talking about Nikina now. Clearly, no one can be responsible because there are no marinas, no one so you don't have to write for this. But, all together, because what I'm talking about is the context of the report right now. What, I would like to object to the report and ask our president to change it, which is the fact that the Sibenik-Knin County simply has to enter, the town of Sibenik with, which suffered an elementary disaster, huge storms, floods at the end of 2004, the western part of Sibenik-Knin County, which was hit by 170km of rapid tornado, which had taken over houses, which had destroyed economic facilities, caused direct damage over a million and a half kuna to people who had loans, who had obligations, who had children etc. So what we can do is get help directly to whoever needs it, because help locate, what Pero said, every 10 kuna, it's like playing with people. It's better not to give them anything than to give them something that no one will eventually understand. Because if the message is now that there's a debate here about the decision to grant one-time assistance and everyone says, rub their hands and say, well, we're going to have that help to say in 10 days, so the good news is, there's no help. Therefore, aid when given must be an element of righteousness, it must be an element that it is indeed intended for those who need it, and that no one should be cut off in it. Of course, it will not solve those issues that I was talking about, it will not solve the problems that we have at sea and on land, and therefore return to that proposal that we must have a certain fund that needs to be charged from the basic fact that there is a positional rent, a positional rent at sea, on land, which everyone uses to carry out the activity and which everyone has to pay in one fund, the fund is solidarity and it is used according to need. This fund together contains the funds of the state budget and funds of the fund for exactly that positional rent, because it is not equal to having and achieving its business interest on an island, on a beautiful bay, without paying a certain positional rent that will be re-killed by those who need it if they need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45130	I mean, just let me conclude that just one fund is a good example and a way to reconcile needs, but also opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45131	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45132	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, in October 2005, we are discussing the proposal for a decision to grant one-time assistance to cities and municipalities to partially mitigate the consequences of the storm and storm damage from November 2004, as well as the frost and snow applications of February 2005. So we're discussing partial damage mitigation that occurred a year ago, that is, in a smaller part eight months ago. There is no explanation for so many delays and we are not familiar with it, and as it is the budget for 2005 blame for the delay, therefore in the lack of information we cannot ask for a lack of funds, but only in the Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters or, more specifically, in the authorised caller of the meeting of the State Commission. With an inadmissible delay, the decision is incomplete and vaguely reasoned. It explains: "Elementary accident, hurricane wind and storm storms from November 2004 affected the areas of 4 counties, i.e. 72 municipalities, the city. After deduction of the requirements to be met for, which do not comply with the legal requirements, the remaining requirements from the two counties, i.e. 23 municipalities or the city. Therefore, the State Commission clearly considers it unnecessary to inform the parliamentary representatives of 4 counties, which were the shortcomings from the consideration of the Commission before the very beginning, even 54 municipalities, i.e. the city of 72 covered by the accident. Why is this hiding from us by asking us how is it that damage is recognised in only two counties in this first part of only 18 municipalities, or cities? There is plenty of room for speculation, the reasons for developing intercommunication impatience is too much, and there is no room for satisfaction or damage because of the recognised damage suffered by the total amount of the 38 million kuna will be compensated for everything in this first part of the million and 900 thousand kuna, or only 5%. Looking at the total amount doesn't get the impression of insignificantness. However, we do not know the number of damages, or the area on which the damage occurred. If we had all this information, we'd understand the absurdity of insignificantness that, apart from waking up evil blood from the neighbors and until yesterday's friends, has absolutely no effect. 5% of the damage assessment, and directly, is a shameful amount of more than that, which comes a year after the damage suffered. The decision clearly states: "Cities and municipalities are obliged to provide funds to help immediately pay both natural and legal persons who have suffered natural disasters. And now, for example, let's take the Brela Municipality that's been mentioned here, which has been assigned a compensation of three thousand and 300 kuna and let's say there are 100 damages. It's obvious there will be, that there will be damages that only a few kunas need to get. I wouldn't want to be at that chief's place. All the anger, despair and mockery of the harmdoers will come upon him neither guilty nor debtor. In such a situation, it is understandable that municipalities and cities avoid paying out for damages, and then the purpose of this assistance is not achieved. Aid funds are strictly intended, and the mayors and mayors are responsible for the use of them. It is generally known that there is non-intentional spending, but I dare say not always by the mayor and the mayor's guilt but are the consequences of decisions that are in practice unimplementable, without a serious negative reaction of the damages. The motion for a decision itself is contradictory. It clearly states that the means of assistance are strictly intended, that municipalities and cities are obliged to pay them to natural and legal persons who have suffered damages, that the mayors and mayors are responsible for the purpose of use, and now in point 3, I quote: "The State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters is empowered to give instructions on the allocation of funds, the use of funds by carriers, and the height and form of damages.", finished quote. Does this provision mean that the Committee shall be empowered to give instructions contrary to the provisions of this decision by the Parliament? No one has the right to alter the will of the Parliament except himself. This debate of mine cannot and must not be interpreted as an opposition to the mitigation of the damage caused by natural disasters. I'm in favour of compensation for damages in a significant percentage, not 5% as it stands in this decision. I also advocate that all those who have suffered damage from any elemental accident get help. During this year, Croatia was hit by various kinds of natural disasters. Storms, storms, frosts, floods, fights. There have been enormous damage to crops, plantations, housing and economic facilities. The damage has also been suffered by natural and legal persons throughout Croatia. Despite this fact, today before the end of the calendar year we make a decision on the symbolic mitigation of the consequences of the damage in only two counties, Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, for a total of 23 municipalities and the city. What are we going to say to hundreds of thousands of other damaged citizens? No money? Or has God sent punishment to the sinful people? Such arguments do not have a passage. All the time during the year, we have been assured through means of public communication that the channel's impermeability is to blame the owners of agricultural land that do not pay water-based compensation and not clean channels located next to their land. We explain, only partially true, the owners of the agricultural land stopped paying compensation when they realized that no one cared about the flow of the canal network that had grown into plants a few dozen years old and had not been smudged since the time of the excavation. Such a march is rarely the bottom of the canal on the land to be drained. The completely abandoned channel network is dedicated to maintaining local self-government, and the fee is further paid to Croatian waters, so local self-government only obligations without the source of funding. We have been listening for two years that the irrigation system for Croatia is a strategic project. How strategic it is to carry out a budget that clearly says that the project has nothing but, of course, an empty promise. With this policy from now on to eternity, we will suffer damages from droughts and floods and have an excuse for producing insufficient for our own needs that must in any way be met by the import of food. If there is no raw material, there is no need to develop the food industry, because the final product is imported. Such policies produce only social cases that will reach the number of millions of citizens very quickly. If we're lucky and avoid the damage to the cold, flood and drought, we probably won't be able to avoid the damage to the fight. The risks are numerous, and the better will of state authorities in reducing them is weak. The action is to silence the removal of such a system of defense against fighting, without offering another more effective, useful and better. In order to demonstrate that ineffectiveness claims are deliberately not subject to the necessary conditions in order to assess the effectiveness objectively. Launchers are left without enough rockets, the tender is called for and cancelled, in the absence of domestic production that was deliberately destroyed without competitions, importing rockets from Serbia-Montenegro and that is wrong. The failures of political powers are paid only by producers by suffering damages that could be done by a proper policy if they do not remove and mitigate it. This year's damages have passed 800 million or more precisely 860 million kuna, and we have no answer to how and when we will alleviate them. In 2003, 400 million kunas were found to remove the effects of drought, which shows when there is a will, and a solution is found. In the absence of will, there is no solution. And now instead of a solution, we offer this segmentary solution to a small part of the damage without an explanation to those who have so far said I would have traditionally been forced to satisfy only empty promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45133	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45134	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, as my colleague said, the channel network she handed over to the local administration is absolutely incorrect. Only part of the channel is given less importance to the local administration while Croatia leads to clean channels to a good degree, larger channels. On the second question, we should talk a little bit about how much is paid to Croatian waters at all, therefore very little, therefore not much can be expected. And third, I see no one mentions insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45135	I'm reporting to the MPs that the time has elapsed for a ten-minute hearing on this point. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45136	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So here's a report that we have on the table, now an example of the impotence of us as institutions, and especially of the State Commission for Assessment or better to say for relief from the consequences of elementary disasters, because by means of a legal framework, we have tied our hands and brought ourselves before the final act. So if we try to share the funds that are secured in the state budget in any way, it turns out to be the result we now have. So our surprise must go into concern, first of all whether this legal framework can exist, how it can be fixed and what kind of strategy it actually accepts. We have to determine that we are protecting production in the production phase in a way, it is already said in part that the anti-urban defense is put into operation, that we introduce a system of insurance in part or all of one, that already there is talk of a channel network, that starts to take care of the whole system, and that time if the system starts to function then we are determined for all production in a way that this country needs it. Because if we just remember we have three or four products enough to settle our obligations, everything else we have to import, we don't have enough production, then that production of any size is interesting and we protect it that way. If we turn the saw upside down again like that, then we're fighting what, if we ignore all of this, and we're obviously just mentioning these parts, and we didn't bring them up to the level where it would be in the function of protecting production, then we're fighting the consequences, and the consequences are in one way or another, is it ice or a fight, is it flood or drought, wind or storm or I don't know what other elemental accident. That's why I think this is a good report now as a motion for further discussion. My suggestion is that this should be the last such report, because it ends in 2004. For 2005, this Parliament should be a trigger and it should be an initiator for all these reports that have so far been not given by God or by them, to unite them and to say, we will ensure in the state budget if this is a damage to the flood by law 20 or 30 more than the total land bonus, etc. The criteria are easy to bring. 20% fee... It was supposed to happen, but it's easy then to calculate how much the funds should be provided. [[You don't understand.]] It depends on us, and then our boards of municipal, county and state commission, then she has a relatively easy, although it's not easy work, give someone not as they say, a couple of counties fall out because it simply didn't meet the legal framework, it didn't collect enough come damage there, so it just turns out because now you're taking average yield pa times quantity, etc. Yeah. So we should define ourselves here, protect production in such a way that all assumptions are included or determined for compensation, secure funds, let these channels heal, let the anti-urban protection not work, let us not provide and then wait for the state to make it all together. I think it's easy to answer the question, in fact, which is our definition and where we have to focus our forces. We must organize ourselves in a way that this production so as small as it is protected from the beginning to the end, that it in the balance sheet of this state means... It is the largest because it does not contribute to the general good, it in the global sense smells the needs of as many or as many inhabitants and it is interesting for whoever makes it. [[You don't understand.]] Because if we're now starting to think globally that we're small, that we don't need this, that we don't need what, we're going to be ourselves for an hour. Someone says we don't need it here, too, because without us, we'd rather not spend the state money than some state could work. But that's not what it's all about. So I repeat again, this is a good template for us all to think about and take seriously. Only solve one section of protection when any elemental accident occurs is not good. It's not good because it's just insurance, because it's just this. Because look, I'm an example for you at 2,000 acres that I'm providing completely as a community. Let's make a mistake. When we secure the storm, the wind and the fight, then there's a flood. When we secure the flood, then we get wind, storm and fight. And everything secures is impossible. That's why a channel network, it should be a fight, it should be part of an insurance of one kind of elemental accident, and maybe someone else has 10 other proposals, including it all together, and then the system would probably work. The question arises that it is impossible to pay both insurance and water compensation today, etc., because a small income is made, our prices are limited and all expensive. Yeah, we probably left some time when we had to think about it, but it's already been said for that coastal, Adriatic part of the fund, but that's true for our whole beautiful one. And I remember, even in the former system is so-called. The Solidarity Fund, which and that part of the state budget predicted, where, for example, for the former still states intervened for not giving God some elemental disaster. We now have our own state and I think it would be good for the price of the sold product to form a fund where it would all come in, from the service, and if we don't, we actually have a hard time relying only on the state budget and just from the state budget wait for the results. So as much as this compensation was, the members of the Committee were in the dilemma of whether it was generally giving, but we decided not to violate the system that had so far worked. Let it go now, and in this House give us the task of changing the law, adapting it, improving it, and then really show the good will that our citizens have security for, don't give God, greater needs that they don't die alone. Or if it's cities, municipalities, while it's such material damage that they can rely on a clear state, on the state budget, and that it's remedied, as soon as possible. Maybe it missed, I don't know if it was said, the state intervened promptly in such cases where it was supposed to be at once, where it could have been as much as it could have been, and that there was more resources. I think it would be good if we had discussed this in the second or third months, but here's what's happened when the situation is what it is. So here's another chance to think about the system and change it for the safety of all our citizens as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45137	Thank you very much. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45138	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So basically Mr. Kolar was at the end of his exposure and gave himself an answer. In fact, I also agree that this report by the Commission is a good template, but for the creation of a new, whole Law on Protection against elementary disasters, in which the Government should urgently, no later than the end of this year, mean to submit the proposal to the Croatian Assembly where exactly the issue will be resolved, how to resolve the issue through insurance. In which part will the municipalities, which cities, whose counties, which state. And then how and how to solve this issue of damage itself when the state jumps out of the state budget. Unfortunately, we always have this situation where the state jumps in, or the government, whether it's her or her, only if it's the election year. Then they'd jump right in because it's election time, but when there's no choice, then it's forgotten and they claim that someone's gonna get 10 kuna and it's more expensive because the municipality's gonna send it, like the mailman's gonna pay more or he's gonna open a jury account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45139	Thank you. And respected representative Ruža Tomasic, the final 5 minutes on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45140	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives from the government. I am reading this explanation of the Proposal for a Decision to grant one-time assistance, which says: "This Decision gives the Croatian Parliament one-time grant of grants to cities and municipalities, i.e. damages to the elemental disasters for the partial mitigation of damage caused in November 2004 and February 2005. The decision includes damages that suffered direct damage to agricultural cultures and long-term crops caused by the hurricane wind and storm storms in November 2004, as well as frost and snow applications from February 2005. "years." The aid does not involve compensation for damages. And now that you take, for example, because I'm from Smokvica, I take it as an example, but it could be, there could be any place especially on the islands, especially in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, where people are unemployed, where people mostly live on grapes, i.e., from wine, from olives and tourism, and where tourism lasts for about a month, and then you know how these people live because you know what these people live on, and then you know why these people run off the island. In Croatia, we are therefore proposing and asking the Government to urgently draft a new law on protection against a natural disaster that will regulate the issue of insurance against natural disasters. It means that part of the insurance is carried by the state, one part of the county, one part of the municipality and the cities, and one part by the citizens themselves. We also ask that a system of protection and rescue be established in case of an elemental accident, not that, like now, a year later, we talk about it and we show some kind of concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45141	Thank you. The president of the commission, Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45142	Thank you. I would actually thank all the colleagues and colleagues who participated in this debate. And in fact, from a large number of these discussions mainly arises and is not satisfied with the insufficient means and slowness, i.e. the delay in the payment of certain funds. So we in the Committee are also dissatisfied and that is why we are proposing a change, but we are also surprised that all the commissions before us have not come because this system has been working with this methodology for almost half a century. So, it hasn't changed in 97 years, and this commission is the first fact that after 6 months and after the ridiculous numbers we've given and we've been obliged to distribute it to the municipalities, following numerous remarks by the mayors and mayors that they are no longer in a position to cooperate with their citizens because it irritates them and such assistance generally refuses. And then we see that we don't have the number of cities and municipalities that kind of help just goes back to the state budget. If we compose our Law and model I think this is the Committee with this decision to go looking for a solution on the right path, From all your discussions I thank you, we will work together on this job, I hope this will be the last year when you will be sharing assistance in this model. If we compete for damages from the elemental accidents with our neighbours then we have to realize that every country has solved it differently, so every system, every country has its own model and their own system and I can say that every system is better than ours, so ours is one of the worst systems. For example, I will also give this example in the Republic of Slovenia requests to receive the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, the ministries have expert commissions delivering this to the Ministry of Finance, etc., which is important, there is a permanent reserve in Slovenia, a permanent reserve in the budget, which is assigned by the Ministry of Finance and in a permanent reserve there is a current reserve that is not determined, and the permanent reserve is 1.5% of the amount of the state budget. I took this model as an example because it is the most similar to ours but the funds are much larger than we provide in our budget, but also this methodology is slightly different and better. For this reason, we are in the state commission thinking that our most appropriate way is a new model of restructuring, providing aid for damages from natural disasters in order to more effectively allocate funds to help through participation in the payment of insurance policy. So we would solve not only this aid but we would solve some of the other problems that we clearly have, and above all we would know how much we have sown and planted on our agricultural surfaces, and I say this example shows with this proposal, and now I will only indicate what the proposal is. We already have about one new model and methodology and a working group that will work on it I hope by the end of the year that with your help we will come to the Parliament that we will do so. We propose that insurance policies be such a state budget that 25% of the insurance policy participate, and in areas of special state concern and in mountain-mounted areas up to 50%. The county budget to participate 25% in the insurance policy, and municipal and urban according to the possibilities. In any event, the agricultural economy does not participate in paying the insurance policy more than 50% and in areas of special state concern more than 25%. This is one variation, there'll be plenty more suggestions. Now as far as secrets are concerned, this framework has no secret criteria or methodologies, it was simply delivered to representatives, so Ms. Lalic tells us as soon as the criteria taken by the commission were taken, this is the prescribed documentation and deadline of the application taken into account, the damages left out from processing, whose confirmed value does not exceed 20% of the height of the budget of the city and of the municipality concerned, indirect damage not taken into account, the secured property which has suffered no damage to the processing, the damages left out to the municipal and regional infrastructures and the construction industry, which were remedied immediately after the damage occurred or were obliged to repair other systems or societies or owners themselves. So that's already prescribed and we can't change this, this isn't a report, this is a decision, and we're discussing a decision made by the State Commission and giving the Parliament to adopt. On this trail, I would like just on the trail of Mr. Kolar, who in fact in a few sentences stressed that we have to change this surviving model, give along with the state commission, we will be with this group in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry by the end of the year going out with the Amendments and additions of the Law on Protection against elemental disasters, and I think it's the only way that we're going to end it together, and we hope that this will be the last year when the damage has been calculated this way. And I have to tell Mr. Markov that in Sibenik all the damages were on infrastructure and legal persons, so they are not on agriculture, and that is why this commission neither received them nor received them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45143	A colleague of Marks, a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45144	Thank you very much. Not all of the damage was to the infrastructure, the damage was to the family economies, people's homes, basements, because two houses were destroyed on August 3rd this year in a large windstorm almost half of them were destroyed, they were left without roofs, hence, the damage that was done to people, persons, not infrastructure, that part of the infrastructure was not shown in numbers, 4 million and in figures 1.5 million. But good, that's it, but we'll hold you to it for the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-06-0.u45145	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. May I have your attention, please? First. The proposal for a decision to grant one-time assistance to cities and municipalities to partially mitigate the consequences of the storm and storm damage of November 2004, as well as the nets and snow applications of February 2005. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the decision has been made with 85 votes for and five abstentions.
