ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38252	Your Honor, thank you for giving me your word. I want to say that Croatia is facing a serious constitutional problem. In fact, today I had a chance to read in the Morning List that a platoon of land troops at a training exercise in Minnesota. Namely, the Croatian Land Army is sending a pedestrian platoon to the officers who finished it, etc. in Minnesota. Croatian soldiers will be sent today. So, if that happens, Mr. President, and that platoon leaves the borders of the Republic of Croatia during the day, it will be a "serious blow" to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia without Parliament's decision. No soldier can leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's not 1992. Under regular number 13 is the decision to hold military exercises of members of the Croatian Armed Forces during 2005 where this military exercise in Minnesota is mentioned among other things. It is clear that this decision comes into force only on days of publication in the National Journal. In one word, we found ourselves on an impossible mission or situation. I believe that, before it is published in the National Journal, Croatia must give up sending soldiers to the United States, it needs to find a way, a mechanism for Croatia not to be blasphemed and the president of the country has to intervene as commander-in-chief in order to get out of an impossible situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38253	Thank you very much. Col. Cain, news articles and something we have the procedure of the Constitution and the law prescribed in which and under what circumstances and under whose approval of the Croatian Armed Forces and the Croatian Army participates in peace and other operations, participates outside the borders of Croatia. We'll have a discussion about that. If someone has broken the Constitution or the law on this matter, we will discuss it under this topic that we have on the use of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. We're going to continue the debate. I'd like the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Antun Zvlamir Golem, to further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Already, the announcement of the amendments and additions of the Health Protection Act has already sparked heated debates, although it is necessary to say that the implementation of the Health Protection Act adopted by this House in July 2003 in order to regulate how to conduct a healthcare organisation in the Republic of Croatia has shown certain difficulties that impose simply the need for changes and additions of legal solutions and primarily in order to improve the health care system through the process of rationalising the health care system as well as the supervision of the organisation's implementation of healthcare. Let me show you the next one. The unification of health homes in accordance with the applicable Health Protection Act resulted in inequalities with regard to the quality and availability of health care. In addition to the above, it must be noted that until today, as far as eight counties are concerned, unification has not been implemented under the current law. On the other hand, by looking at the founder of the institution as a county through decentralised funds, he had the responsibility of investment maintenance without the possibility of affecting the business ability of the management of those institutions which he was the founder of which became the initiator of creation and irresponsibility of sometimes available funds in the operations of a health institution. Therefore, these amendments to the law propose a solution to the legal obligation to organise health homes at least one in each county and three in the Zagreb area, with the responsibility of the founders of the health institution. The institutional change also provides for the establishment of at least one home of health by islands with more than ten thousand inhabitants. The island of Brac, Cres, Hvar, Korčula, Krka, Lošinj, Rab and Vis would necessarily be established in this way. On the other hand, in clinical institutions where the administrative council as a representative of the founders of the Republic of Croatia had certain powers that need to be more clearly defined now. The administrative board should be empowered to analyse the financial operations of the institution and to request a commitment to be at least once a month in order for the founder of the institution to be warned in time about any problems encountered in the first order of financial and professional activities. This clear definition of obligations enables timely interventions of the system because, in addition to health care, clinical institutions act in the field of scientific and teaching work in order to enable the creation of the most qualitative management of the institution with the quality of the scientific and teaching direction of the institution, it is proposed that the Director and, if not the Director, then his alternate must have a scientific educational calling. On the other hand, the colourfulness of the internal structure of the health institution has led to an inequality of the performance of the head of activity and subdividence which can practically not be aligned with the applicable regulation on coefficients leading to diversity in the evaluation of their work, requires a clear definition of the internal structure of the health institution, an existing division of clinical and general institutions. The proposed division is based on activities and narrow activities and enables better quality management of the institution by respecting the professional work of the institution. In the field of professional work in this proposal, amending and supplementing the law strengthens the control of professional work in the part of the study and use of medicinal products and medical products by clearly defining the establishment of a health care committee with the obligation of quarterly reports, as well as a clear definition of the obligation to submit quarterly reports not only on the number of deaths and causes of death in medical institutions but on the completed autopsy and on all the circumstances surrounding the occurrence of this unwanted event. In the part of improving the solution compared to the current provisions in the proposal, it is proposed to this House to enable and in our tourist orientation to ensure the establishment of tourist hospitals. Tourist clinics would be established in legal and physical persons carrying out tourist activities with a contract between health institutions or companies performing health care activities or private healthcare workers to implement healthcare measures provided to tourists. The specific category or article also refers to the responsibility of the person means the user of healthcare. However, it is much clearer to define that any business-friendly person is responsible for the preservation and improvement of his health and to avoid all known risk factors that threaten life and health and should be taxed for intoxicating drugs, alcohol, tobacco products, risky sexual behaviour and excessive weight. Specific changes and additions have sparked stronger discussions on the complementary work of healthcare professionals. What is currently in force under the applicable law enabled healthcare professionals to work in their own institution. This has led to some difficulties and according to reports that have been conducted for a year and a half on the work of workers in health institutions, it has found that a good part of healthcare professionals does not satisfy the basic normative work during regular working hours and, on the other hand, outside of working hours meets very well normative work in their own practice. For this reason, and also because of the need to allow top Croatian experts to go to work and other institutions, assistance to other institutions where necessary is not prohibited from private work in healthcare institutions but increases the criteria for coming to the status of work where the principles of absolute and opinion of the chamber and the authorisation of the employer who is required to keep an eye on and record the work of workers in a health institution and the final approval of a minister who would allow or not be interested in additional work outside of working hours. And it certainly limited that extra work outside work hours to a maximum of 8 hours a week. And allow me to present the last point of view of the motion on the subject of restrictions on the right to strike. It is clear and loud that the strike, i.e. the suspension of work as one of the forms of strike in health institutions, can lead to tragic consequences. He recognized the existing law and made it clear and loud that a strike was banned in emergency medical care facilities and in emergency care facilities. Unfortunately, we witnessed the past two strikes that rocked the Croatian health care in which the agreement, i.e. the agreement between the minister and the doctor's representative, or the strikers were clearly defined what belonged to the strike and what mandatory jobs are for the sake of maintaining health and allowing the removal of the consequences of such a strike. These criteria were much stronger and much stronger than what is proposed in this Law. And in this Act, it is proposed to limit exclusively the part of the work that is in close connection with bringing life or disability, to the risk of life or the possibility of disability of the patient, and as such does not restrict the right to strike, but rather restricts the right to health, the right to life and the right to lack of disability as a result of inadequate sharing. Because apart from emergency medical care facilities, it's clear to all of us that the strike can't even be in the intensive care units, that the strike can't even be in the units that provide literally the limit between life and death with their direct work. All of the proposals presented in this way, in the first reading of this proposal, are subject to certain changes that we expect to bring this House to a constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38255	Thank you very much. Legislative Committee, Committee on Labour and Social Policy, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38256	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 30th session of the Committee held on 1 June 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 20 May 2005. The Committee discussed the proposal, the Law discussed it as a home working body in accordance with the powers of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the reasons for amending the Health Protection Act. The application of certain provisions of the applicable law in practice has shown some difficulties, and in order to improve the solution, these amendments and additions are proposed. In doing so, it was primarily taken into account the more complete achievement of the objectives of health policy, which is to preserve and improve health and quality of life. In a very extensive debate with the Committee members, representatives of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Croatian Institute of Public Health, Croatian Institute of Labour Medicine, Croatian Medical Assembly, Croatian Medical Association, Croatian Medical Association, Croatian Medical Chamber, Croatian Dental Chamber, Croatian Chamber of Medical Biochemists, Croatian Association of Laboratory Medicine and Associations in Health. A considerable part of the debate was raised on the issue of restrictions on the right to strike in health institutions. Almost all participants in the debate have pleaded against such a possible solution as well as against the conditions that trigger the strike even though they do not at the same time approve of the doctor’s strike in health institutions. It has been pointed out that the past two strikes by doctors for whom, according to some members of the board, responsibility is primarily borne by the doctor's union. Doctors showed their responsibility to patients and no harm was shown to any of the health care users. During both strikes, businesses were provided that needed to be undertaken in order to avoid harming the health or endangering the life of the patient. Jobs for which the draft law provides for a ban on strike in health services are too broadly indicated. The present representative of the Croatian Union Association warned that the existing regulations are also sufficiently regulated by the doctor and the provisions of the Labour Act give the possibility to regulate this matter and advocate to delete these provisions. A representative of the Croatian medical chamber points out that a solution has been achieved well primarily because it allows every citizen the constitutional right to strike in the protection of his rights. It should be retained, and the work obligation should be redefined in strengthening the responsibility of the doctors on strike. All members of the board agreed that the provisions of the strike until the second reading should be improved for the benefit of both health and patient purposes and brought into line with the position of the Economic Social Council. Changes related to the supplementary work of healthcare professionals in the debate have been assessed differently. Although the current situation is not satisfactory in the opinion of the Committee member, the proposed solution will not significantly improve the situation. On the contrary, most Committee members feel that a solution has been offered, especially since the possibility of conflict of interest has been avoided, by prescribing that additional work can be done exclusively in another health institution and not in the one in which the doctor is in a working relationship. Furthermore, the obligation to deliver a solution to the tax administration’s authorisation has been assessed as one of the measures that will introduce order into the existing situation. In this way, the board members must meet their working obligations in regular working hours, and financial controls for work outside of working hours are introduced. Although supplemental work is not allowed in a health care facility in which a physician in a working relationship would be useful to supplement the provision and to establish that the director who grants the authorisation explicitly states in it a ban on competition with his own health institution. A provision stipulating that counties and cities provide a means of covering the loss of health institutions, the founders of which assessed most of the Committee members as useful. The state in which the financing of health institutions has been centralised and management has not proved to be good. The operations of hospitals owned by counties and the control of costs of the Ministry of Health have no influence, so it is necessary to establish that the founders bear and are responsible for business. However, care should also be taken of the fact that certain health institutions have also received debts that exceed the amount of the one-year county budget by abolishing their health homes in their area and that it is difficult for the founder to recover it. However, the opinion of the Committee members has also been expressed that determining the increased responsibilities of the counties for the losses of their health institutions is a good solution. Transferring responsibilities without significant changes to the public funding system is unacceptable. The possibility that counties establish more than one home of health depends on the number of inhabitants is considered useful, and it is also necessary to complete the privatisation of health homes that have proved successful so far. Further discussion supports the establishment of a crisis headquarters in order to manage and coordinate the work of the healthcare system in major crisis or incident situations. Just a few years ago, the Bexter case showed the need for such an organization. As regards the provisions of Article 11 and the conditions for the selection of directors, the majority of the members of the Committee maintains that they are unnecessarily tightened and narrow down the possibility of selecting good management staff by limiting it to a health profession only. The provision could possibly be applied to directors of clinical hospitals, clinical hospitals, centres and clinics. The opinion is members of the Committee. It draws attention to the provisions of Article 37 which should be reconsidered. Further control should be introduced in the exercise of private practice of physiotherapists and nurses, medical technicians when this function is already performed by the Chamber of Nurses. A foundation was established with the Law on Sisterhood, which clearly established their status and responsibility. As regards Article 30 and the obligation of the Institute of Public Health of the Units of the Regional Self-Government in the protection of the health status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, members of the Committee have proposed that it be complemented by a special group which has specific needs and should be protected as a special category of health care. Public health services should be competent and planning measures for the health care of this group of insurance undertakings. After a broad debate, the members of the Committee decided, with two votes, to propose a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Second, all objections, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38257	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? For gender equality? The president of the board, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38258	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 22nd session held on 7 June, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act as an interested working body. In the opening statement of its representatives, the Committee met the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, and, as one of the most important reasons, pointed out the inability to implement a large part of the applicable provisions in practice. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee made the following comments and proposals. Article 2 of the doubts assesses the regulation of obligations to the counties and cities to cover the loss of a health institution whose founders are. It is almost certain that the founders of the county health institution will not be able to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 2 of this proposal. Article 6 Article 6 lists risk factors that threaten health in order: the use of intoxicating drugs, alcohol, tobacco products, risky sexual behaviour, excessive weight. Members and members of the Committee ask whether this is the only risk factors and whether they have a negative effect on health, for example, excessive consumption of coffee, starvation of various diets, insufficient movement, stress and factors that disrupt oral health and others, which today medical science claims are in close contact with various diseases. It is undeniable, we point out that every person is obliged to take care of his health, but it is also a duty for the state to create conditions for the implementation of health care and for the protection, preservation and improvement of the health of the population through measures of economic and social policy. Article 14 misjudges the solution by which it is said that the Director of the Clinical Hospital Centre must have a VSS of health guidance and a scientific-training. And then there's an exception to the rules. And it remains unclear and it is not clear enough whether the Director can be a person with, say, higher professional training if his deputy meets a cumulative condition. The majority of the members and members of the Committee consider it to be a supportive regulation of the health profession as the only one because the director must also be a good manager, which he undoubtedly has in other professions. In Article 17, the proposed solution to the composition of the Expert Council as well as the work cycle is considered by most Committee members to be a better solution than the existing one. They also believe that the Committee for Medicinal Products is within the health institution that it will contribute to better work of the institution itself and to greater control of the use of medicines. Article 37 The members and members of the Committee shall support the amendment of Article 141 of the existing Law in the part in which medical technicians, as individuals who are able to carry out private practice from their professional capacity, are referred to with their nurses. However, the other amendments to this article have been made. On the basis of the proposed Article 37, Article 141 is amended in such a way that medium-sized healthcare professionals are no longer able to carry out private practice from their professional facilities on their own, as instructed and under the professional supervision of doctors of medicine or specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation. The reasons for the proposal are not clear whether these solutions have been taken from the legislation of the European Union countries and whether the reasons for the unprofessional work of nurses or in something third? The activities of nurses are governed by the Law on Sisterhood in a way that covers all procedures, knowledge and skills of healthcare, and the approval for independent work, the license of the nurse is given by the Croatian Chamber of Nurses, which extends or withdraws the licence every 6 years. In view of the fact that the Croatian Chamber of Nurses is an independent organisation of nurses whose duty is to carry out professional supervision of the work of nurses, the Committee considers that the proposed solution would be a solution in Article 37. The bill violated the integrity and integrity of the Croatian Chamber of Nurses themselves, and would bring this draft law into line with the Law on Sisterhood. The professional supervision of the work of nurses is laid down in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Chamber of Nurses, Article 27. The sisterhood law. The debate also noted that the activities of nurses were underrated in society. The profession is highly feminised and their importance in the health care system is often forgotten. In Article 39, he newly regulates the private work of doctors in public health institutions. When and under what conditions, which specialists, at which price, will perform services, how will the work of a doctor be measured, who will do so, is it unfair competition on the market, conflict of interest, and what will ultimately have the consequences for patients, will this lead to the reduction of waiting deadlines or waiting lists for individual reviews? These are all questions from members of the board that have remained open. The suspension of independent work in the same institution, i.e. working on its own behalf and on its own account in another health institution, does not necessarily mean that conflict of interest is prevented. From the explanation of this article of the law, which literally reads: The supplementary work of healthcare professionals in health institutions is arranged. This is not clear because the supplemental work is regulated and valid by law. Otherwise, the general remark of the members and members of the committee is related to the proposed amendments to this proposal for a law that the arguments with each change are extremely impertinent and unclear. The members and members of the committee consider the establishment of a crisis headquarters as a permanent body of the Ministry of Health and Social Care to be a necessary and good solution. As for Article 32, they consider it unacceptable to restrict the right to strike for a full range of services in health institutions. In the opinion of the members and members of the Committee, all listed jobs are not necessary, i.e. such that the interruption of their work could endanger the lives or health of people. The right to strike is a legitimate right, and a ban on strike in health activities leads to violations of guaranteed constitutional law. After the discussion, members and members of the committee unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is hereby adopted in the first reading. All opinions, objections and proposals will be forwarded to the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38259	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The club of HNS representatives of PGS respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38260	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to say that our club will not support this bill. And I'll give an explanation in the course of the debate. At first, I want to express my belief that with this bill, someone is joking with us. If it's not a joke then I'm afraid it's an attempt at a prank, and if it's not even a joke then it's a counter-constitutional proposal. And that's why I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State if he has authority on behalf of the Government to withdraw this proposal from the first reading procedure, because I think that would be the only reasonable solution at this point. If the Government has not given power to the Secretary of State to withdraw this proposal, then I am obliged to explain my assessment of the anti-constitutional and exceptional harmfulness of this legislative proposal. Article 9 of the Law, which remains unchanged, states that the county and cities, with the implementation of the constitutional provision that local self-government is concerned about primary health care, does not implement this ministry through this proposal. So this bill prevents the authority of local self-government units from carrying out primary health care tasks as stated in the Constitution. Therefore, this Article 9 obliges the counties to invest, invest, invest and maintain space, medical and non-medical equipment, transport and information systems. How? In accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and the basis of the network of health activities. Who does this obligation apply to? General hospitals, health homes, county pharmacies and public health institutions. Who brings the plan and programme of health care measures? Who brings a network of health care activities? When you read the law, you will see that it is the authority of the Minister, the Ministry and the Government. And what does the state have to invest in under this law? This is prescribed in Article 8. Only where she's the founder. So the state is in a position to bring itself a plan and a programme of health care measures, to establish itself a network of health institutions and to provide itself with money. But when it comes to regional self-government, then it is not allowed to establish itself, for example, a network of health institutions in its territory, only it is obliged to give to the ministry an opinion that the ministry has never, in establishing the network, respected by any opinion of the regional self-government, never one. But the county must therefore implement both plans and programmes and respect the network and open hospitals in places where no one is looking for them or where they are not needed. Even in places where there are not enough insurance providers of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute because the number of remaining patients is 300 more than the limit that the same state, the state's health authority has established. So we are witnessing that every year in the daily press HZZO will open a tender for the opening of primary health care clinics and dental clinics and for those municipalities in which there are no spatial conditions or interest in opening the clinics. But that's how it's written in some kind of health care network. But that's not all, that wasn't enough, so in the decision on decentralisation functions for this year when it comes to, so the decentralised investment funds and the investment current state maintenance said, if you don't mess with us with these funds, we'll centralize the purchase, we'll decide what you need and with your money we buy you what we think you need. Under the firm, there's a lot of savings going on. So for example, if a facility has to take six new dialysis devices and has 22 correct ones, it doesn't matter, it has to have six new ones, because that's how someone in the centralized procurement plan for this year decided. So what does the government propose now? Countys are also responsible for covering the loss of health care facilities. General hospitals, health homes, public health services and pharmacy. What losses? Those of last year, those of this year or perhaps those who began to form in the second half of 1996 when the current model of establishing a hospital limit was established and started to apply. However, 2001. 1.7. when the counties took over general hospitals, did they take on consolidated debts? Were the general hospitals' operations reduced to zero, so the county took them with zero or loss, or positive? Nobody asks these questions today but says: Here you are to take over the debt of general hospitals, health homes, public health care and pharmacy. From the 1st.7.2016 limit to hospitals is determined by taking the amount of invoiced realization from the first 6 months of 1996 and it remained until today at the base of the monthly budget of hospitals with mild, small small corrections which were not carried out on the basis of either argument or criterion. Is it, say, the number of kunas per bed in the hospital? It's not. Because one general hospital has a monthly amount of 26 thousand kuna per bed and another 22 thousand kuna. The population number? It's not. The number of HZZO security guards in the territory? That criterion was not taken either. That it was taken, say, the number of beds per capita or insurance company. I suppose those counties and hospitals that have three and a half beds on a thousand fuses would have one limit, those that have 2.7 beds would probably be stimulated and rewarded, and those that have more than 3.5 detimulated until they cut the number of beds to 3.5, which is some kind of Croatian standard that is valid at the moment. Or maybe the number of employees per bed and those hospitals that have 2,02 employees per single bed would be on the Croatian average, those who reduced it to 1.95 would be rewarded, and those who have 3.5 employees per bed would probably be financially demoted so long as they didn't agree to it. Or perhaps the relationship between medical and non-medical staff, where the ratio of 30:70 in favour of the medical profession would be on the Croatian standard, and where it is 60:40 at the expense of medicine would probably be financially stimulated to resolve it as soon as possible. Or maybe a percentage of caring patients from their region that the hospital in that region covers. So those who solve 87% of the gravitating patients who are at the very top of the Croatian standard would not have a lower budget per bed than those who provide only 60% of the graviting patients. Who signs a collective contract for health care employees' salaries? Staff costs, staff expenditures in general hospitals range between 75 per cent and 85% of the monthly budget of general hospitals. Who determines the health standard? Who determines the list of medicines and those hospital drug lists? The ministry, minister and Croatian Health Insurance Institute. When you add staff expenses with health costs, health standards then it's 95% hospital budget expenditure. What expenditures is decided by the Founder? County by the board of directors. About the amount of roll toilet paper in the hospital, the amount of purchase of potatoes and pasta, salads, meat, tea, white coffee and lawns in the hospital circle. These are the powers of the founders under this law that are now being proposed. Why don't we apply the model from education to health care to pay under collective contract and material expenditure employees are not the item of decentralised budgets of health institutions, but they go directly from the Treasury and are under constant supervision of the central state government and then hospital budgets would be one million kunas and the founder and administrative council and incompetent directors would be responsible for these millions of kunas. Because the collective contract is not in the jurisdiction of hospitals or boards of directors or founders. What are the losses of the health care facility that we're transferring to regional self-government today? 100 million, 700 million, a billion. According to some of the data I have, they're currently worth 640 million kunas. At this point, the obligation of general hospitals is 3 billion 186 thousand kuna, and the unpaid liabilities have already reached one billion kunas. From these billions and a half to the end of the calendar year, the loss rate will be a billion kuna. A billion kuna on the burden of Croatian county budgets, which at this time are about two to two and a half billion tops. If anyone thinks that counties exist only for solving the loss of general hospitals let's call it that and abolish regional self-government. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 137(2): "The income of a unit of local, regional or regional self-government must be proportionate to their powers provided for by the Constitution and by law." Are these obligations appropriate to their expenses? No, they're not. And as long as we don't create conditions for their income to be proportionate to their obligations, this law must not be passed. The Constitution in Article 134(1) states that primary health care is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, not regional but local. For years, this ministry has not wanted to implement the constitution through its laws and always retains primary health care only at the level of the region, or county. Only when he's asking cities for money to help hospitals and the only thing the city can start is a special hospital and that's all. What are we going to do now that this law is passed? Change the Constitution, delete this Article 137? Change the funding of regional self-government? When? Or abolish the county? What is with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which obliges the government not to make any changes in the system of obligations and organisation of local (regional) self-government, without having previously held a debate with it, which is an excuse that the Government could not hold that debate or ministry on the ground. So if that's the case, let's discuss it in the fall, not now, let's hear what the county thinks about it. In early November of last year, media reported from the health minister at the time that 40% of medicines end up in domestic pharmacies and junkyards, and 20% of diagnostic findings remain undisturbed, with health funds losing around 3 billion kuna a year. I agree with that statement and I think even the estimate of 3 billion is approximately correct. But whose problem is that? The mayor? The mayoral councils? The city headship? What's wrong with the waist, which in our medical system doesn't have the responsibility of a doctor who doesn't ask the patient to return the results? Why do Croatian Institute controllers not control unsolicited findings? Whose patients are they constantly raising finds and where they end up with, who they're invoiced to, and why is that happening? Three billion kunas of drugs in the trash and unscathed diagnostics. If we only solve this problem not 100% but cut it in half, it is a billion-and-a-half kuna annual health funds more without a single new burden and without a new reduction in insurance and patients' rights. But this is a problem of profession, not politics, not founder, but manager. So I appeal that instead of these proposals that border and my court are unconstitutional, I would ask experts and experts at the Ministry of Health to deal with the profession and return these 3 billion kunas to the cost-effectiveness of investing in health instead of everyone realizing that 3 billion kunas per year are being thrown into the trash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38261	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38262	Thank you, Mr. President. A lot of things have been said that could be challenged, and starting with this counter-constitutional act, but I would only go back to one correction to an incorrect quote when a colleague said that central procurement limits local self-government to determine what to obtain. On the contrary, local self-government determines what needs to be obtained, so it determines what needs to be done, and central procurement is intended to achieve a cheaper price, and this was just confirmed last year that the estimated funds of 100 million kuna for a particular equipment thanks to the central supply is parched 25 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38263	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38264	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HSP Club welcomes the appearance of this Legislative Proposal but only in order to open the debate on the situation in Croatian Health and Debt in Croatian Health and the only thing we can support without delay in this legislative proposal, which is the establishment of a Health Home on the Islands. It's the only thing we can support right away. As far as other situations are concerned, these are three important issues, health care issues, the doctor’s supplemental work and the strike issue. The first thing we have to say is that the problem of large debts within health care and the consequences of our primary health care is completely abandoned. We know ourselves the kind of primary health care we used to have, the kind of health care we had. In fact, basic diagnostics were carried out within the health care centres, they were specialists, so both orthopedics and surgeons and interns, and gynecologists and it was far cheaper than what the current system is because of the fact that we are now experiencing because we are completely abandoned primary health care that it all ultimately falls for secondary health care and abandoned patients is far more difficult to treat than to have effective primary health care. The current situation also tells you that doctors of general practice according to our findings are not at all concerned with the basics of diagnostics, but in all variants send instructions and send patients to additional specialist reviews, so you have even paradoxical situations where you are normally only made up of costs that for ordinary ultrasound or any other diagnostic specialist review a man must go, I will speak in the field of his electoral unit, from Gareshnica must go to the hospital in Bjelovar and we ourselves know that all of this must be paid and all of this goes to the expense of the fund or health care, and when you just sum up how many such cases there are daily and this is all the consequence that we have abolished the former health homes that had function and this real primary health care function when you get together then it happens to you that the patient is waiting for a diagnosis for up to 6 months and we know how much waiting in the hospital area where they can perform these special checks again. There comes a game of money because when a general practice doctor directs with a guidebook to conducting certain specialist reviews, then it goes to the expense and there are games, it goes to the cost of that medical institution, or hospital where it is done, because there is no treatment there is nothing, and then again when it comes back after 4 months, if God has done that review then has to perform an additional specialist review and all this is still going on in the stage of diagnosis and the treatment hasn't even started and we have this situation that our patients come to the hospital as an emergency, because of the fact that the primary health care was not responding in time and it couldn't react in time because of the fact that the former homes of health were totally decommissioned, we have at the level of the county one home of health, there's a possibility for this to be established and more, and this is the fundamental problem in most of this part of debt, all these costs that we've incurred in the way of health care and that we'll go back to the new money that we'll go back to the way to the money, and the way of the money that we go back to the way to the way to the money that we's to the money. And there is, so we have the opportunity to react now in the current situation to put primary health care into operation because it's far cheaper and in the health of Croatian citizens and it's far cheaper and cost-effective, whether it's a word from the state budget, whether it's a word from the county budget, because this way we're just creating debts instead of reacting in the right way and returning to many health homes as they were, in providing the right primary health care means with those fundamentals of diagnostics, and ultrasound, and gynological checks and internal, and the surgical part, means what can be done because the current situation only gives us daily higher costs. And now another problem is this supplemental work issue, while on the other hand, because of this organisation of primary health care, everything is essentially secondary within the hospital, we have these variants that are full of waiting rooms in hospitals, and on the other hand, with the same hospitals not 100 meters away, such as the hospital in Bjelovar in the area of my constituency, a private health practice is carried out and the same doctors who work in that hospital are doing so. Look, it's done by the same doctors then they say go see me this afternoon, and yet no one controls it, no one controls it, no health or tax or other matters. And therefore, this additional problem is now being created, and therefore our view is that it means that in our Committee where the important experts are doctors, it is our view that additional work should be allowed but within the same health institution, means not within another health institution but the same health care institution, that means that this doctor will then work in the supplemental work within that health institution, which means that the funds will remain in that health care facility and that hospital and will not be poured elsewhere. And then it should normally be strictly controlled and taken all the legal measures and on the side of the inspection and everything else so that what is going on in this area doesn't happen and we now have work on black, where these same doctors who are full of waiting rooms tell people to come to them, to their private institution where they charge them for it, but it doesn't benefit them, neither does the county, nor does it have a state budget in fact it's about one of the forms of working on black. So this is your situation in the area of the second electoral unit, not only the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, but also the area of the Koprivnica-Krysjeva County and probably the situation in other areas in Croatia, because there is no adequate and effective system, unless we return to our primary health care being at our level, such a level as to prevent and reduce these costs in good time. Because this system now only increases the costs and with these reviews additionally, quantifying the diagnosis, because you can no longer do anything within, the former someone at home health, but you have to go and it's all paid. Now, the second important part about all this concerns this issue of strike. Normally, this is an area, a strike is allowed, that is the Constitution said but with certain restrictions, we consider it most important to make such provisions where patients' health will be protected, meaning to take all those measures that are necessary in order not to question people's life and health. And there should be a good delay in all these proposals that have been made especially on the Committee on Labour and Health, but it would be wiser and more appropriate to do the following, to resolve the issue of status and other healthcare professionals, from doctors and all others, compared to returning to primary health care, then we will not come into a situation that we will have to solve the consequences, solve the cause, and then the situation will be different, because there will be no such debt, so there will be the possibility of repairing the material situation both the doctor and all healthcare professionals. Therefore, the HSP Club cannot support such a legislative proposal in this form and we expect that appropriate changes and additions will be made until the second reading, which will go towards strengthening primary health care, which will go in order to facilitate additional work but in the context of the same healthcare institution and with the precise rules of the game and which will resolve this issue when and what conditions are considered to be a matter of strike but in every sense in full terms of words to protect the rights of the patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38265	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38266	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Kovacevic said, quote, doctors in primary health care are not dealing with the basics of diagnostics, but by giving recipes and instructions. This is simply not true because of all those patients who turn to primary care doctors up to 20% go into specialist examinations. Therefore, I am saying this in order to protect my colleagues and the integrity of my profession and all those who carry out their license every six years fairly and thoroughly participate in the diagnosis and treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38267	Honorable representative Ljubica Lalić Club of HSS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Today, when the newspaper daily brings us a few affairs or an affair in the field of health care and the provision of health services, when it announces an increase in participation on both medicines and hospital accommodation, it is logical for the Croatian public with special interest to monitor any intervention in the Health Protection Act. It was clear to us at the Croatian Peasant Party Club that intervention must take place after this Assembly passed the Patients' Rights Act. On this occasion, we said that we welcome the adoption of the principles and standards set out in the 1994 Amsterdam Convention but that our citizens' rights will not mean anything unless the law is implemented in practice and this requires intervention both in the Health Protection Act and in the other laws and sublaws governing the health care system. We have indicated that for a long time we will have parallelism, on the one hand the law established rights, and on the other hand the inability to consume these rights because our system is in crisis. For example, we accepted that article 2. The Law on Patients' Rights guarantees every citizen the general and equal right to quality and continuous health care appropriate to his health condition and that provision is good but in practice in a system where there are huge and inconspicuous differences in technical, personnel equipment of health institutions. The promoter assures us that these changes bring health care into line with the Patients' Rights Act. It doesn't seem quite true, as much as there are differences. Unlike the previously cited article which guarantees a general and equal right to a quality service in Article 5, the amendment says "In the achievement of healthcare each person has the right to a health service of standardized quality", therefore not equal and general. So one law guarantees all citizens equal health care and another law that needs to create conditions for the possibility of consumption of this right narrows it down to a service of standardised quality. In times of huge variety of technical and personnel equipment, we read in the paper that the IMF requires Croatia to rationalise a health system that spends 14 billion kunas per year or 9% of the state budget. They say we can choose a way to rationalise, or by firing 60 thousand health employees or by introducing participation for all citizens or by shutting down county hospitals. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do we do not know but we certainly know that it will be at the expense of citizens who sometimes wait for a particular health service for months and some do not welcome it who do not have enough means to eat or let alone to participate. This is especially true of citizens of older age. Furthermore, these changes allow for the establishment of more health homes in the area of one county. The promoter says that the merger of health homes in the units of the regional self-government into a single home of health in practice has been a result of the difficulties that have resulted in inequalities with regard to the availability and quality of health care for the population. On the Health Committee, this change has been assessed as useful, and they say, privatisation of health homes has to be completed, which has so far proved successful. It is an impenetrable fact that after privatization, many health care professionals have become increasingly more accessible. This primarily refers to the rural population of an older age. Recently, a doctor came to their village at least two or three times a week. After the doctor's privatisation, there is no more than once a week. What's the reason for that? The unification in a unique home of health or privatisation at the moment we do not know but we know that in municipal places there are two, three or more doctors in the same hospital lined up by each other but there are none in the hospitals of other settlements in the municipality. Let us try to imagine the old, sick and disabled who need a doctor but cannot get to him because there is no public transportation and their descendants have gone through the white world with their belly after bread. These people must not be left at the mercy of neighbors and other good people. Doctors in highly privatised hospitals must be required, ordinated at least twice a week and in places outside the municipal seat. Of course, for such an organisation of work is a prerequisite for a number of patients from that village. Generally speaking, the organisation of work seems to be a weak point in Croatia at all. This is why residents, for example, are forced to go to Slavonski Brod at night for pain medication or to take the baby's temperature down, which is 85 kilometers in one direction and the comparisons are 92 kilometers to Zagreb. Further changes relate to the complementary work of healthcare professionals. According to the applicable law, healthcare professionals can only perform supplementary work in a health institution in which they are in a working relationship. The amendments provide for the possibility of supplemental work in other health institutions, companies that carry out health activities only from a healthcare professional who performs private practice. The promoter says it is important to stress that healthcare professionals can perform additional work with proof of performance during working hours of 40 hours a week and with the employer's approval. Let's try to turn this into a reality. Every full - time health worker will bring in the evidence sought and how much he really works in an institution where he is employed will only know dear God and patients who will wait for hours, days, and months to come. He will continue to face the fact that the waiting list in that institution is too long but if he wants the same service elsewhere where that doctor is at extra work then he can get it right away, of course at a full price. Discussing such phenomena was the reason for the solution so far in force. A health care professional was thought to pay for the use of equipment and materials to work outside of working hours or for additional work. We are confident that it will be strictly monitored when supplemental work will be carried out. From monitoring nothing and health workers during duty and even regular working hours with the equipment and material of an institution where they do so without compensation and for their own account provided health services. The existing solution is not good but it is offered even worse. Contrary to the Committee's opinion, it is our opinion that no conflict of interest has been avoided. Healthcare professionals compete with a health institution in which they are in a working relationship. It is their direct interest that a patient from an institution who is employed by instructions in an institution in which they work additionally. Furthermore, the regulations concerning the provisions relating to the strike are in fact contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees the right to strike. This problem requires a more studio-based solution because, as a legislative body, we must not deny constitutional law but we must neither allow the consumption of the right to restrict and restrict the right of the patient and their right to a timely and quality health care service. In view of the matter provided for by these amendments and additions to the Law and the way it is regulated, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will be abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38269	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Madam Representative Ruža Lelic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so here is my colleague Lalić, who has made a number of claims at the expense of health care and health care systems that it is properly organised, that it works regularly and that it is not in crisis. And as for waiting, I can only give one piece of information that Blair, in his pre-election promises for these last elections, has said promises to wait 16 to 18 weeks for a specialist review, yet this term is much smaller and is waiting mostly where the patient wants a certain doctor. So, after privatisation, that primary health care has also deteriorated so significantly, that there are no doctors in the sub-destinations which I can say in my field that absolutely no.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38271	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative van Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38272	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Health Insurance Act, the Health Care Act is a fundamental law that regulates the health system. From the principles and measures of health care, how to implement, organisation and content of healthcare providers, as well as how to carry out and monitor health activities, as well as regulation of any other activities and the existing Health Protection Act requires additions, changes, one word improvement and with the aim of high quality health care in accordance with the outlined and accepted health policy. The HDZ Club is behind all efforts to preserve and improve health and extend the lives of the population with a focus on the quality of life. The longer life, but with as few years of disability as possible. The right to continued health care and health service of standardized quality and according to professional standards and ethical principles is the right of every Croatian man. We support the amendment of Article 9 of the existing Law. In fact, practice knows the advantages and disadvantages of centralised and decentralised forms of financing and management of the health system, but the combination of centralised financing and decentralised management is certainly not a good solution. We therefore represent that the responsibility of management is extended to the field of business, not only as an instrument to cover the debts of health institutions from the local level of government but also to assume the responsibility of the administration and mentioned institutions and owners for efficient business. Also, for Croatia as a tourist country it is of particular importance to regulate the issue of organisation and financing i.e. the payment of tourism healthcare to be achieved by supplementing the existing Article 9 in such a way as to provide for the possibility of contracting between operators engaged in tourist activities and healthcare providers. In the case of health care measures, the amendment of Article 17 of the existing Law provides for the possibility but also obliges other health institutions, not only the Public Health Office to propose a plan and programme for health care measures and their competences. The amendment of Article 20 of the existing Law shall ensure the implementation of specific health care of workers not based on the employer’s and health institution’s contract. In connection with the rights and responsibilities of persons in the exercise of healthcare, the HDZ Club supports the amendments to Article 21 of the existing Law ensuring the rights of every person to receive health care and compliance with the rights laid down in the Patients' Rights Act. The HDZ Club maintains that addictions, risky behaviours and generally do not take on concerns about their own health need to be regulated legally, in their own way sanctioned and to the well-delivered individual, family and society as a whole. It is therefore necessary to make a link to any addition of Article 22 of the existing Law to the Health Insurance Act. Amendments and additions relating to the pharmacy shall be subject to the supplementation of Article 25 of the existing law under which health care at the primary level includes the supply and manufacture of medicinal products and medicinal products. This is related to the addition of article 69, which gives health care homes the opportunity to introduce a pharmaceutical service with the aim of correcting, let's say not ideal coverage of the existing network of pharmaceutical activity. The addition of Article 40 of the existing law allows the County and other legal and natural persons to establish a Palitative Care Institution to correct the failure of the current law. The addition of Article 51 of the existing law also enables the healthcare institution to make additional funding based on the so-called insurance. higher standard. We consider it necessary that the founder of a medical institution has timely information about its business. It is therefore welcome to supplement Article 54, according to which the administrative board of health institutions must consider financial operations once a month and inform the founder of losses. And the proposed addition of Article 55 of the existing Law under which the Director of Clinical Hospital, Clinical Hospital, Clinical Hospital and Clinical Hospital must have and the Scientific Educational Call is justified because both scientific and teaching activities take place at the same time in those health institutions, although we are aware that this provision will narrow down the choice of future directors, i.e. heads. The amendment and addition of Articles 60, 62 and 65 underlines the importance of the expert council, determines its composition and tasks it with drawing up diagnostic and therapeutic procedures as well as harmonising needs with financial opportunities. All of this is aimed at improving the quality of health care. The new Article 65a plans to establish trust in medical institutions for medicinal products that will ensure the implementation of all activities related to the examination and rhyming of medicinal products and medicinal products, and to rationalise consumption. The internal organisation and organisation of health institutions are of exceptional importance. To secure a process that will receive the best health outcomes. We therefore believe that improvements to the existing Law have been made to the new Articles 67a and 67b in this regard. At the level of primary health care, medical staff or diagnostics are required to make the maximum available i.e. accessible in accordance with the needs and recommendations of the World Health Organisation, whose main postulates are currently available. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the envisaged possibility of establishing more than one health home at the county level and more than three at the city level of Zagreb. The organisation of health care on the islands is of priority for Croatia. Therefore, the HDZ Club is looking forward to the announced establishment of health homes on the islands of Brac, Cres, Hvar, Korčula, Losinj, Rab and Vis. For the same purpose, Article 69 of the establishment of a pharmaceutical activity within the health care centres is provided for to ensure additional coverage of the network. In addition to Article 79 of the existing Law, it is possible for a health care facility with the supervision of a physician to temporarily provide patients who need it and rehabilitation. This is in line with the Community rehabilitation policy, leading to positive effects such as hospital discharge and cost reduction. When we talk about health institutions at the tertiary level of health activities, then we support the proposed amendments and additions to Articles 92 and 94, which are arranged to give the name of clinical institutions and are more precisely regulated by the cumulative working relationship of the healthcare staff. In particular, the HDZ Club welcomes the amendments and additions to this Act, which complement the concerns. overseeing the supervision of the health of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War, which will be achieved by the additions of Articles 98, 100 and 106. Organisation of work and working hours. In the case of this part, the employer shall be authorised and subject to the 40-hour working obligation of the week. This proposal amends and complements the supplementary work of healthcare professionals employed in health institutions of Article 158. The HDZ Club supports the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws governing this matter. On the one hand, the needs of the community and, on the other hand, the conditions of work and the like may be the cause of certain dissatisfactions of the provider and of the routine health services. We stress this is a very sensitive field in which rules of play between providers of services on the one hand, health institutions, public and private and healthcare professionals and patients on the other hand must be regulated and based on partnership to prevent any conflict of interest, inequality of service and quality. The HDZ Club particularly welcomes the establishment of a crisis centre at the Ministry of Health as bodies that will coordinate the health activities of public and private health institutions and institutions as well as all healthcare professionals in cases of extraordinary i.e. crisis situations regardless of the shape and cause of the possible threat. The establishment of a crisis headquarters even though it actually exists as a liquid of the Homeland War and its position is in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and its instructions for emergency handling. In the case of a strike, the HDZ Club supports the right to strike as the last means used by workers' associations to meet its requirements. But I stress that in cases of interruption of work that could endanger the lives of personal safety or the health of one part or all residents, the strike is allowed to limit what is in line with the views of the International Labour Organisation. It is therefore known that the current Law strike is entirely prohibited in the medical institutions of emergency medical care and emergency medical services. Legal regulation of other audit-related, diagnostic procedures related to the exclusion of emergency and treatment procedures in the same situations and possible solutions related to this HDZ Club is an important issue. We expect that the debate with all stakeholders in and around the health sector will give the best answer to this important issue, which will be to the satisfaction of healthcare professionals, as well as patients. Finally, we support all changes and additions related to supervision in health institutions and the determination of cause of death. The autopsy. Finally, the HDZ Club supports this proposal to amend and supplement the law as an instrument for ensuring even more effective healthcare and expects better outcomes of the health system, as measured by indicators of the health status of the population, the satisfaction of the provider and the users of health services and financial indicators. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38273	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go. ... Who knows? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We no longer dare to say anything when it's over and what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38274	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the context of the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, it would be irresponsible not to refer to this general debate on the health sector today. I think that this situation also calls for a special debate on this, in this House, and I hope that even though I still know that the ruling majority avoids this slippery topic, I hope that, because of the seriousness of the health sector, this debate will take place within a reasonable period of time. What's the state of the health sector today? Well, one of them will say good, I guess, colleagues on this side. And the other one will say bad. Some will say very badly. I think it would be most responsible to ask patients about it, including those who represent these patients gathered within the associations, but also those who represent health care professionals who seem to be the most difficult burden for me right now to bear the burden of disorder in the health system. Recently, the chairman of the Governing Council, our fellow representative, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, said that the health system lacks 4 billion kuna. 4 billion kuna is a significant amount. I remember in the beginning of 2000 when it was precisely that amount of 4 billion kuna that was insufficient in the health system, and it was about the services provided, the goods obtained and the unpaid bills. So much at the beginning of 2000, there were unpaid bills in the health care system. At the end of 2003, about a billion and 200 million of such contributions were made about a year and a half ago in the health system. Within a year, the health system was headed by the current health administration again managed to restore the health care system when we talk about unpaid liabilities to those 4 billion kunas. Normally, there were some 7 billion people in between, and there were some planned investments planned for 7 to 10 years, but the real situation, the true truth refers precisely to a billion and 200 million kunas a year ago, and I hope accurate information since it was spoken by the President of the Board of Directors of the Bačić about 4 billion inaccessible kunas today. That this 4 billion-dollar data is accurate also points to the state of non-payment of drugs. Today, medicines are not paid between 260 and 300 days, or wholesale, the only one who is willing to accept that strange arrangement with the Ministry, banks and wholesales will be aware of their claims for 260 days, and those others who cannot accept the cost of paying interest today are waiting for 300 days or almost a full year. I'll remind you that in 2003, that payment deadline ranged between 120 and 154 days. It means that we have doubled the deadlines in which the bills are paid or not paid. It is also an irrefutable fact that investments in the health system have been slowed down and sometimes stopped. This is not good, it is not good because any slowdown in the renewal of health institutions will cause additional problems and cost growth that we will not be able to cover with the funds collected for healthcare. There are talk of major centralised procurement effects, but I cannot agree with that as well as some of my previous colleagues. Centralized procurement has ensured that something lowers the price of what has been obtained. But unfortunately, what health institutions would like is obtained, rather than what someone in the health administration, i.e. in the ministry, HZZO or some central commission wants. Often it is inappropriate equipment, often it is bad equipment, and most often it is equipment that is not needed by a particular health institution. There is the biggest problem right at county hospitals that have decentralised funds again centralised and under the orders of the central administration purchased equipment they did not want. But they were forced, almost esteemed to agree to such conditions. Health information projects prepared and completed in early 2004 until today have not been implemented. Not only have they not been implemented, but the government has not yet made a final decision on this. Everything is still standing and waiting, and control of the costs in the healthcare system is trying to introduce some kind of supervisors, or I don't know of any kind of surveillance that absolutely can't be satisfied because it's a large system, a large number of institutions and 15, 16 or 17 billion spent in that system. The waiting lists are growing. As much as we're told, patients can testify to that. This is why not only dissatisfied patients but also healthcare professionals because those who are first conflicted are conditionally confronted, faced with patients to be returned, who should be delayed, who should be told that a diagnostic examination or another medical service should wait three months or in some cases even three years. What is the result of these increased waiting lists, and why are patients returning? For one single reason. Because of the unacceptable and poor financing system, those known limits that are determined by healthcare institutions without taking into account at all how many institutions the institution is working, how many patients are taking care of or not taking care of. On the contrary, those who do not treat patients and who do not exceed their limits are rewarded and stimulated, and those who treat patients are punished, they, those hospitals, those institutions and those doctors that the patients are looking for. We might be able to testify if some of the directors of health care facilities sitting here in the Assembly were to speak frankly, such as A colleague from Gospić. The missive hospital has no problem with losses but therefore does not solve 50% of the patients from what she received the restrictions. On the other hand, some other hospitals and institutions exceed the limits, but not because they are wasteful, but because they treat more patients. More expensive procedures are avoided. In this assembly, there was a lot of talk about successes, positive steps in an expensive transplant procedure. I'm going to say it here today because I'm going through this data, I'm monitoring it regularly, what's going on in health care. In the last two months, no transplants have occurred, and because the donors are being detimised, those performing these expensive transplant procedures are not being paid, even though we have reached a consensus and agreed to do so. And why is that? Because the institution spends a lot on other things, there is no good administration, and therefore there is a lack of funds within the approved limits. And finally, the state of health is not well showing today's papers announcing amendments to the Health Insurance Act, which intends to charge patients an additional three billion kuna. Three billion kunas from the pockets of patients who should be covered and calmed not only by the really insufficient resources in the health system but often by a whole series of unrealities and disorganizations that the government is not trying to act on at all. Nor have we received before us a proposal for any measures which, in the organisational sense or in terms of improved objective financing or control of the spending of funds, could ensure both the rationalisation of that system and the rerouting of available funds for the benefit of patients. And what bothers us most in the SDP. We have a feeling that a level of solidarity within the health system will collapse very quickly. When we talk about the level of solidarity, then we talk about the fact that those who have more, stand out more even though perhaps their health needs are not such as to finance those who earn the least. And these are not just pensioners, they are certainly workers working for a thousand and a half, two or three thousand kunas below the Croatian average. In such a system, in such a state in the health system in Croatia, we meet with this proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act, and we can't at the SDP Club take the impression that it's actually about one thing, that one attempt at a health administration is that the powerless and in ignorance solve these real problems that aren't simple and we don't envy them in the position they are in, that they're trying to make these changes of the law, here's something like that, at least when it comes to repairing the form. I also agree with what I heard earlier from my colleagues, Bagaric, that this law should also be updated and that it should be improved towards improving the organisation of the health system so that both health care professionals and patients can have better working conditions and better health care services. But unfortunately what we are suggested here is far from what we would expect and what we can do in Croatia. And let me therefore look briefly at a few groups of amendments in this law that we hold to be not good and that should be changed. One of the important things has also been mentioned so far is the change of responsibilities of county hospitals that expand and cover losses. We really don't mind the founder's owners taking responsibility, either. But we cannot ignore that the counties that are the owners and founders of the county hospitals have no effect on this catastrophic system of financing that produces losses of county hospitals, among other things, not all but some. And it has to be installed somewhere. They cannot be legally transferred to them without being transferred or being denied the possibility of affecting the elementary or basic distribution of centrally collected and centrally allocated healthcare funds. It is unacceptable and we think that not only is it unacceptable in one political sense but it will not take any real step, because we can write in law, transfer that responsibility to the county. The mayors don't have these funds, we know it today, and this is one law change just something that we might call "popping from hollow to empty." One change group also refers to a reduction in the scope of health care in this Health Insurance Act. The truth is that reduction of justice is also explained that these rights of patients are listed in the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, which we recently brought to the Croatian Parliament. But I remember very well, and I will remind you, when we asked that some of the rights of patients be entered into the Law of Rights, then it was refused and explained that it already stands in the Health Protection Act. Today, in the Health Protection Act, we are erasing the scope of law and we are actually reducing patients' rights. I will also refer briefly to the fact that it is unacceptable for us to restrict the selection of directors by rigid provisions, i.e. it comes down to medical and scientific teaching, as I will also refer to the provisions that speak of the strike as unacceptable and that they mean the whole of the strike ban. Because of all this and some of the things that I haven't been able to talk about in more detail, we presented them in a committee debate and we ask the Ministry to consider them. The SDP club will not support this proposal, but we will be restrained and in the hope that everything that is bad in this law until the second reading will be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38275	Thank you very much. I'm reporting that at 11.02, it's time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this subject. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, a respected representative of Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38276	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would correct an incorrect quote that contains a single digit that is correct, and in a globally not true. My colleague said there were 4 billion commitments. That's not true. The total liabilities are 4 billion, and by taking over the government we inherited the total liabilities of 7.5 billion. From that, there were 3 billion that were returned neatly. Therefore, the level of total liabilities in last year, i.e. at the end of last year, remained at the level of the situation we practically had. Thanks to control, strict consumption control we managed to stop the growth trend in health debt that was at the beginning of the year last 24% at only 2%. So we continued at the same rate as we inherited, then our commitments would be by a billion and 200 to a billion to 500. So basically we've burned over one billion into the system, and I'd say the figure is that 4 billion are total liabilities, but the liabilities are one and a half billion. They were like that when we inherited them. Secondly, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38277	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ruža Lelic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38278	... She tried to say in her discussion that the state of health care is now so serious and messy during this government, and that it was all quite different by 2003. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I can say quite responsibly as a doctor with experience and as the manager of a health institution, an appropriate medical institution, that the condition is not at all and that let's just say a point in primary health care just now we managed to get him back to the level he was before 2000. It is also noted here that hospitals are financed unacceptablely and catastrophicly, and the limits are actually increased this year by two and more million kunas for these general hospitals, and certainly... far and bigger. [[You don't understand, the bell at the president's table.]] Thus, such claims do not really stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38279	And the third correction, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Antuntovic, as an incorrect allegation, presented her entire exposure. It's a health politicization. I'll do as much time as I can, just fix a few. It's true that the total debt was 7.5 billion, now it's 4 billion. It is true that HZZO had 2.5 billion dues in the form of a bank loan that we returned. It is true that a billion and 600 million in HZZ has not been shown in the final account, as has been established by the state audit. There was no centralised but decentralised procurement of only those counties that requested the ministry to unite and cheaper purchases entered such a form of co-ordination. The information was not made because the State Audit wrote that the content of the contract was inappropriate and that it should be changed and changed for exactly one year. The contract was signed the last night before the elections worth more than 70 million kuna, but its content does not allow implementation as determined by the State Audit for the past year. It is also an incorrect assumption that institutions that reject patients have been rewarded. In the past year, the number of services in healthcare institutions has increased by 10 to 11% lower prices by 1.02%. So they were awarded institutions that increased the number of patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38281	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38282	Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38283	Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38284	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club cannot support this bill, and you will hear from the reasons why. Every time I'm behind this pay phone, and on the agenda is health care, the situation is getting worse and worse, whether it's talking about primary, specialist health care or hospital treatment, and worse and worse because proposals and legal solutions only bring about cost cuts, rather than the desire for better health care. Instead of systematic health care reform, we get some sort of partial solution on the bench every few months. We pass a law I can say with quite an ease, we end our health homes, then we find out that it wasn't good, so back it all goes back to the way it was. I just want to know if anyone will ever take seriously the legal decisions that will be made on the basis of a broad debate or some serious research, and it is also possible to take some good solutions abroad and some other countries where health care is well organized. In such a way, we would find true seriousness if we were really to deal with all the problems that plague our health care. This bill goes towards the burden of units of local self-government, i.e. on the burden of cities, municipalities and counties, to transfer obligations to tackle the loss of health institutions they are founders of, and we also know that county hospitals have so many debts that no county budget can cover such debts. I can conclude that we really need decentralisation, but not this decentralisation of problems and debts, all the important decisions still remain in the Ministry and HZZO, so until there's real decentralisation of money and powers, until we have regional health insurance institutions like we once had from the real decentralisation of health care will be nothing and thus neither will health care improve. I am from the county from which I come also received remarks on this Law and can read you a few things that bother the county I suppose others in Croatia. What's this about? We know for ourselves that we brought together the health care homes on 17 July 2003 when the Health Protection Act was passed, so after not two years of age, this Health Care Act is changing and more health homes are being reintroduced to the space of a county. On the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities when I asked how the reasons why it was coming back, and that the county had the costs when they had to register a home of health which, for example, in the Primorje-Goran County was 8 and that now one is being done and now we're going back to the old one, that something and cost it, so the answer from the Ministry was so you didn't have to respect the Law you could act like the Dubrovnik-Neretva County where the former minister, they didn't do it now won't have any costs. I don't think such an argument is appropriate to come from the Ministry. I can only say that the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County founded a home of 8 health homes and was precisely on the trail of rationalising the home of health and equating quality and availability in providing health care. According to these proposed amendments, four homes of island health should now be established without previously giving its view as the founder of the home of health on the justified needs of the establishment of island health homes. So, as the founder, she had no influence on the adoption of the bill. In addition, this Law does not lay down the criteria for establishing the necessary establishment of health homes, meaning the number of inhabitants on islands, surfaces, distance of the island from land, etc. So it happened that the island of Cres is intended as an island that will have an independent home of health even though it has not had a home of health so far, it is all increasing, of course, the cost of operating to the health care homes in carrying out its activities and increasing the management costs. As for the observations, I may in some way have had three general remarks on this Bill's proposal, so the first one that brings everything into restrictive and transfer of responsibility or debt to local self-government units. As for the part that deals with the supplemental work of a doctor, I have to say that it's just legalizing the existing situation because somebody explain to me how someone can do full-time let's say "in the state service" and then do another working time with a private person. In our opinion, that's not possible, but somewhere these people have to rest and I wonder where it's going to be, whether it's in the state service or private. I also think that it may be possible for doctors to earn such a decent salary without costing the state anything, because otherwise it would have to naturally increase wages. In our opinion, there is indeed a need for systematic rationalisation and for systematic reform to be made, not at the expense of patients and their health care. Here I really think you should, let's like our neighbours Slovenians where they made a reform that hospital treatment is paid by diagnosis and not by bed. Other remarks and there are many, we will give in the form of amendments and I hope that the Ministry will really see the problem and that it will engage and start reforming the health system because it is a serious and long-term process to start improving healthcare. We remember having better health care and I think that Croatian citizens deserve better healthcare. The only positive we see in this law is the formation of a crisis headquarters, so the IDS Club won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38285	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Ivanis, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a claim that may not be the most important to discuss the law itself. The claim that the single county health home rationalised and cost-effective business increased the availability of health care to the population simply and objectively does not stand, because the first indicators of the functioning of the single home of health say that it operates even more expensive than before, and the availability of healthcare is reduced even by the conditions of the single home of health compared to the 8 previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38287	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate, dear representative Drago Prgomet here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38288	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So a few provisions in this Law certainly merit a shorter review, and I will try to avoid repeating what was said. Certainly among the most interesting provisions are those provisions relating to the strike, which were also said in the introduction with the intention of not violating this fundamental right of workers, hence also the doctor on the one hand, and on the other hand to ensure continued health care and thus to protect patients' fundamental rights. It's really hard for me to tell if a solution like this will ultimately have a result of what the applicant had in mind, but I would like to remind myself of something that may have been misregistered here and for me as a doctor is extremely important, this is the conclusion of the Health Committee which, speaking of the previous two strikes that we have had in the last three years, stated that doctors during these two strikes have shown responsibility to patients and there has been no damage to any of the health care users. I stress this because in the first strike there were a lot of media inscriptions and even very serious complaints about it I think that there were about 10 deaths that occurred during the strike indirectly accused doctors, and we never received a concrete response from the Ministry of Health, and therefore this conclusion of the board is more acceptable to me and ultimately confirms what the doctors and knew that they had done their part of the job during the strike professionally and correctly. Of course, it remains doubtful whether all such precisely listed strike restrictions should be in this Law. When you read them, all those involved in the strike know very well that they are all of these provisions that have been mentioned and respected, so the question remains whether they should be specifically listed since other laws regulate this right. I'm not against the strike personally. As a doctor, I was not against either of these last two that occurred in the Republic of Croatia, and not because the primary purpose or reason of this strike was the salary but above all the improvement of the conditions and standards of work, pointing to a difficult state situation where in the increasing social marginalisation and underestimation of the medical profession it requires a top result, quality, kindness, good service and through an increased view of any error and seeking sanctions. I agree that everyone should be responsible for their mistakes but to paraphrasise the famous one. Let's not get into a situation where a good doctor is just a fired doctor. So, finally, as regards these parts of the law, I believe that the opinion of the Economic and Social Council should also be taken into account in order to finalise these strike-related provisions. When it comes to private work, I really think it is very difficult to find a solution, a legal solution that would satisfy one side of those who would like to work privately outside of working hours, so doctors as well as users of services. I will personally support the possibility that even doctors outside of working hours work in private hospitals because I think that the complaint about state hospitals that existed only as places to negotiate business in private practice would not stand if the main criteria of working in the state sector were met, and that is to do the job for which it was paid in the course of regular time. I think that the possibility of performing private practice outside health institutions and outside of working hours can indeed be not only for doctors as a possibility of additional earnings but also for patients who are able to afford a private doctor and pay, thereby shortening the length of waiting for a possible review. On the other hand, it should not be forgotten that the equipment of such a doctor's office requires certain funds and yet results in a payment of taxes to the State. On the other hand, the criteria set out for doctors who can practice private practice outside of working hours can be stimulating in terms of further efforts to acquire professional and scientific qualifications. There is one question left that I must admit from this law is unclear and concerns those doctors who are the first amendments to the law from some six to seven years ago when it is possible to work outside the working hours of extraordinary, regular professors and primaries with doctorates of science in their private practices. So I don't understand from this law whether they'll be able to carry out that practice still in their offices. That's what I'm asking for because these people have provided certain financial resources, loans, etc., equipped their own infirmarys, so I'm afraid that these changes to the law on private practice like the one from three years ago don't put that group of doctors in a position that I personally don't think is such a large group of doctors, maybe 30 to 40. So, what about them and how to enable them to work normally in those areas without still playing the law by transferring private such hospitals to other persons, contracting, etc. Which certainly shouldn't be the intensity of these legal solutions. As regards the structure of health institutions, it is perfectly understandable that the criteria for the recognition of the status of clinical institutions should be the number of staff with specialization or narrow specialisation, and the number of persons who have cumulative working time or contract on work with higher universities or medical colleges, and I believe that such a formulation in relation to the structure of the department cannot be because these are too high criteria which are simply almost impossible to meet, especially since the department as an organisational unit must primarily be based on professional work and on professional preferences and not on scientific ones. As regards Article 30 and the obligation of the Public Health Institute of the Units of the Regional Self-Government in the protection of the health status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, I think it should be complemented and I think that this is the position and our committee, given that it is a special group that has a specific need to be truly protected as a special category in health care, and in any case it would be good to place in charge of the public health services and the planning of health care measures of this group of insurance companies. I also support the establishment of a crisis headquarters in order to manage and coordinate the work of the healthcare system in major crisis or incident situations. I really believe that there should not be wandering not only because of the Baxter affair mentioned by someone but for the simple reason why, if anyone deserves all the praise for working during the Homeland War, then it is a health crisis, and there is enough experience of our own to revitalise such a body whose activities would be linked exclusively to the incident situations. In addition to these remarks and remarks, I will support the proposed law or amendments to the law. I believe that until the second reading not only of the remarks but also of my fellow MPs will be seriously considered and included in the final proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38289	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38290	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I'll start by saying that in any case I support these amendments to the Health Protection Act. In the debate so far, a lot has been said and even beyond this bill itself, it has been discussed in general about the health system but I would say that as the proposer also said in the introduction that some problems have been raised in the implementation of the existing law and that these proposals are changes in order to improve. And I'd say what's good, it's already said in a few discussions so far, but I'd say it again. It is good that the law provides that each individual must take care of his own health, so live healthy. It's a special emphasis now. It is good that it is already mentioned that the crisis headquarters of the Ministry of Health has been re-established, which should be continuously working and on all incident situations normally respond and organise what needs to be organised in good time. It is good in the law that the administrative councils are indicated their responsibility to keep a strict account and report once a month to the hospital owner and, in particular, on financial operations. The role of the expert council is also particularly pointed out there that it must coordinate the professional work of the institution with financial opportunities, hospitals and thus propose measures that must be taken to ensure that the profession is not damaged or that it works with patients within these financial opportunities in the best possible way, that algorithms are operated, that steps are done which are normal observation that not all are yet made but many are. And what is important is that quality control at the hospital is increased specifically by the introduction and in some way by standardising the internal control of the hospital, which it must all do and mainly related to the analysis of the cause of death, therefore, the professional college of each, every department, each clinic must analyse the causes of death once a month, the expert council must be informed and internal control as well. In this regard, the role of the Committee for Medicinal Products is particularly indicated by the Committee for Medicinal Products, except that it coordinates with the Committee for Medicinal Products at the level of the Ministry of Health and the Agency for Medicinal Products where it reports all side effects, which also leads to stricter control of clinical trials conducted in the establishment, but also controls the use of medicinal products. What is good for me is that it is also the obligation of county hospitals, i.e. administrative councils and county hospital owners, that they are also in some way responsible for consumption, to control consumption, and to have the opportunity and to recover the possibility not only to control investments but also to be able to cope with the losses in the business so far, which has not been possible. What's good, in my opinion, is that this part-time work was better done in order to be popularly called and for a number of reasons. In the first instance, this work is now being made possible outside of the institution where the employee works, and that is exactly the point of the conflict of interest that it is now being reduced. The important thing is that it gives the chamber's opinion. Therefore, the chamber must make sure that the part-time work does not endanger real privates living on the market. Well, it's a good thing that from one-third of the time that fund is down to eight hours, so before it was a 7-hour window, now it's eight hours. And what's very important to me is that now it's the obligation of every employee who works part-time to report to the tax administration. Therefore, it seriousises the whole process and in some ways the state has control over it more directly. What I think may be missing in this regard is the issue of competition in my own institution, a solution issued by the Director, and I believe that there should also be a proposal for a law in a single paragraph indicating that the Director must make it compulsory in his approval for this work to indicate that an employee must not compete with his own institution. That's good stuff, there's more, but I'll go back to what I think is a little doubtful. It's already mentioned standardising the conditions for department status inside the clinic, it's too demanding because it's above the conditions set for someone to become a clinic. I think also the conditions for the director of all clinical hospitals to be in scientific teaching is not good, perhaps just clinical hospital centres, I think it's until the second reading can be discussed. The strike has already been mentioned that it may be overly detailed that everything actually has to be done during the strike, and I think that even until the second reading can be considered. This provision in the Law aims to protect patients which is absolutely to greet but must leave the possibility that even these remarks on the right to strike will not be completely deleted. I think there's still room for corrections. It is also doubtful to return a pharmacy to health homes. And I think that's because now it's given the opportunity to establish some new health homes especially on islands, so maybe it's given in that way a legal basis that can be established if it turns out that the network is insufficient to establish health homes. What's good about home health is that now it's said that each county can organize at least 1. Therefore, it is not an obligation that health homes must now return everything to the old as it is now said in the debate but gives the possibility that, if the organisation considers that the organisation is defective to establish one or more. So it's a possibility, not a commitment. It is good that there are obligations on the islands, especially in islands that have a larger number of inhabitants, that there are health homes because so far this has been shown many, many problems can be avoided if there is a well-organized home of health and emergency care within that home of health. What I think is, I think we should use it when the law is already being amended, and that can be solved in amendments. I think that the Institute of Toxicology, which is now within the Croatian Institute of Public Health, has its meaning, but I think it's a solution before the old law when it was completely separate and the state institution that this is a better solution, especially since a lot of work will be now being entered into the European Community, the control of chemicals, toxic things, etc., I think it has to be a separate institution and it would be to consider that the Institute of Toxicology is singled out as a standalone. And one more thing, I think it's time to consider that the company can't be the founder of a part of the facility. It's only consummated in the famous separation of analysis in the Holy Spirit and nothing else, I don't think that's good. Trade companies can establish an entire institution, can establish any institution health care but to establish only part of the institution, I don't think that's good, that it's wrong and that it's just meddling in a state institution and it can't be a private institution. Here, with these remarks, I hope that the Proposer of this Law will work on these questionable things by the second reading and that in principle he is acceptable and I will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38291	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38292	As a particular advantage of this Act, Mr. Bacic points out that units of local self-government, I quote now, Mr. Bačić, that units of local self-government are now able to settle the debts of hospitals that they have not had until now, said Mr. Bačić and stayed alive. On the contrary! They didn't have a chance, they didn't have a chance, they wouldn't have a chance because they didn't have money simply. And what he's doing with this law is that the state transfers its commitment to them, and they don't have any money. And what happens when they fail to resuscitate it, how will the patients in these county hospitals go? How will the doctors go? The patients won't be able to strike, the doctors might be able to, if that didn't happen... strike and forbid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38293	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38294	I am correcting the quote of my colleagues, Bačić, and I quote: "It is good that this bill allows owners to resolve the losses of hospitals.". If we are reading the same Law and we have received the same bill proposals, then I must correct Bačić's colleague and say that the article of the Law supplementing paragraph 9.2 reads: "The Countys and cities provide funds among other things and for covering losses.", note, counties and cities founders and hospital owners are counties and the coverage of losses extends to cities as well. Therefore, it is not true that it gives opportunity but that the obligation is determined which is a very large difference, provided that we read the same text of the law and that we received the same proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38295	Thank you. Replications. Dear Representative Miroslav Korenika
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bacic said exactly that, about the obligation of the county and the cities to resuscitate the loss said it was a good thing. I must say that at the same time that counties such as have ownership rights cannot affect certain costs related to the work of their health institutions, for example hospitals, let's just remember how the government or in the name of the Government has concluded a collective contract to increase the salaries of health workers. But... they stayed at the same level or were slightly higher than they were in the previous period last year, depending on how they are viewed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can't say that counties and cities can affect the price of energy, municipal or to the end of the communal food service. It is obvious, therefore, that medical institutions will go to waste. There's another thing in Varazdin County you have except for the general hospital and three special hospitals. In these special hospitals, only 20 to 30% of patients or patients from Varazdin County are treated. The county, which has 30% lower average salary than the rest of the Croatian county, must bear the means that the poor county must also pay the costs for those rich examples of the city of Zagreb or other locations in Croatia. Does that mean we should... that the General Hospital of Varazdin, and she's the type of regional hospital will no longer receive patients from some other county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's neither ethical nor moral nor I think anyone normal in this country can accept it. According to how this can be a good solution, and if money is not provided in the county budgets, we have heard cities to solve such things. Someone else decides on costs, and you county politicians are incompetent because you cannot ensure the positive functioning of institutions which is impossible under these circumstances. I'd like to hear, the cities are richer than the county, because for example, the town of Varazdin seems to me to have seventy million higher budgets than the county, however, how to do it. So what magicians in this country have to be able to do that. So the solution can't be good, but it's vice versa. Then let the county determine both the heights of the pay and all the other expenses. And that unfortunately doesn't allow anyone else to do it on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38297	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38298	Well, here's a thank you for the possibility of a replica. I'd like to remind you of the old law before this since 2003. The law allowed the Ministry of Health to influence the director of the county hospital that, he confirmed it or did not confirm it. That's exactly why he thought he wasn't good at running a hospital. With this new law, the minister could no longer influence it. The funds have been decentralized. The county had practically decided everything, but had no obligation to correct business and repair business. Therefore, investment funds are provided and only for investments and I say why is this change of law good? Because so far these funds could not be used to cover the costs because they were legally limited. So they only had to be singled out into capital investments. Now it is possible for the county, and many have expressed their desire that one part of the loss in their hospitals and from these funds. Not all the funds, but part of the funds. It's the only possibility of moving things from a dead end. So they are given the legal opportunity to intervene in business as well. Therefore, not only can there be powers, but there is no responsibility for business. And that's why I think it's good. ... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38299	Thank you. The second replica of the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38300	Well, I would primarily like to dedicate the replica to the part that Mr. Bacic spoke of but also many before him. It is about the supplemental work of a doctor who is now being opened here as a possibility that doctors do not only work in their health institutions but also in private health institutions. It all came down to this morning that this law by opening these possibilities solves a conflict of interest. That's completely incorrect. The conflict of interest will remain equally independent of whether doctors work at their hospital in the afternoon or work at another health care facility. As much as I think that this way, and you said so too, there will be a lot more competition for their own health institutions where they work. On the other hand, I think that this provision is actually buying social peace in health care on the burden of Croatian patients because I think that in the present situation, which was also not ideally regulated where doctors in the afternoon were able to work, so in this way they still had such control over their work. You said they simply didn't meet their standard in the morning hours, but they are afternoon. I'm curious about how their work and the quality of meeting their standards will now be controlled when they work in other health institutions, so they're completely out of hospital institutions when there's no surveillance? And as for their benefits, so far, this way of work has brought its own benefits to both hospitals and patients, as well as to certain medical staff who have worked in hospitals. At the moment this legal possibility is allowed, only doctors and private health institutions will benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38301	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38302	Thank you very much. Well, I said there are still some doubts about conflict of interest. However, I consider this to be a diminished question, that conflict of interest. Why? World Health says there can't be state and private in the same space. So this suggests that doctors work outside of their facility that's exactly what they respect. You can't work in the same space state and private. And that's now avoided. I'm sure there's a control problem. However, the control problem remains with the department heads and the hospital director. He finally gives his approval. Everyone's work can be valued. There's a blue book as much as any doctor has to make points. Therefore, only when it is done can he exercise the right to work part-time. I consider this law practically and the medical group a possibility is given, a possibility to work who wants to be part-time. Because everybody can do it. Why can't doctors do that? So I don't see this big problem, and that thing got a little bit sharpened right in the fund hours. So it's not one-third of the working hours, it's only eight hours, and what I think is most important is that it has to report to the tax administration, so it's completely controlled. I'm not saying it's ideal, but it's one of the options that in some way seriouss the problem and that conflict of interest still narrows it down. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38303	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38304	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Bačić's debate moved me. A colleague said that or disagreed with the establishment's private establishment. It's one of the solutions that's out of the system again. There is no establishment of a part of the institution, and it is not really a replica to you, but a legislator because it is known by the Law on Institutions that institutions are established and that you can have a share in founding rights. And also with responsibility for finance. It's the same here, the general regulations are very clear. Who answers and how for the facility? The founder corresponds without limit and I think it should also be avoided in the laws of those solutions that go beyond the system that has already been built and in which terms are known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38305	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38306	In fact, a colleague, Josipovic, said the essence. I don't actually have that steam, but just to confirm that I believe that the law must be very clear and precise in jurisdiction. So this, in my opinion, these companies to establish a part of the facility, I don't think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38307	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38308	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I support the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act and some of its parts I especially support, and the others I have noticed will be highlighted in my presentation. Well, here I would say at the beginning that the goal of every health policy is safe to preserve and improve health and that we have made some progress in this regard. Also in our reform of the health system we have outlined that we will add years of life, means to extend the working life and life span, and that we will also improve the quality of life in this regard in these late years. I'd just like to say here that the life expectancy at birth is 74.85 years. The average in Europe is 73.97. So here's this claim that we're going to add years of life to some of it. And when it comes to improving the quality of life in those added years, there are also amendments to the Social Care Act and these other activities that are happening, but I think they are more represented in the larger environments, so I'm always saddened when there are no such activities in smaller environments as mine, but hopefully in the future it will be and so. Here, too, when we are discussing health care and we see here and here in this debate, the question arises primarily, and the conclusion is that health indicators and responsible health care are almost fully responsible. But that's not exactly the way it is. According to the World Health Organization, the health system for health indicators is responsible for 10 to 20%, the environment 10%, genetics 10%, and would expect it to be more. But lifestyle and diet 20 to 30% and living standard 30 to 50%. So when we're discussing health care, then we'd have to consider all this. That is why it is good to suggest that everyone is truly responsible for their health and that any risky behavior should be avoided. What would particularly support in amending this law is that it is now possible to establish at the level of the county at least one home of health and on the islands as proposed. It is pointed out here in some discussions that it is not very good. I would remind myself of that time because I was also a participant of the fact that this merger was actually being conducted I would say quite a bit of coercion, that the minister was really using all the possible methods to force the counties to implement such a merger, although it was indicated that it would not lead to a positive shift. In fact, the unification of health homes has led to one and more organisational problems as well as to finance and also to the conduct of health care. I therefore support, in particular, this article where the counties are given the opportunity to establish a health home in their territory as they believe they should in view of their space, given their age structure, the density of population and everything else. If the county is the founders of health homes, then surely they should have opportunities for this one. And here she would also remind, she would remind here that, on primary health care which unfortunately in the system can often be neglected, but primary health care is nevertheless the basic health care that we have heard before from colleagues, should provide 70 to 80% of the needs of the public. This is therefore health care, which is fundamental health care and represents one entry and savings guard in other health care systems. And I couldn't possibly agree with the opinion of individual clubs that, primary health care is not doing its duty, not doing the tests that are available to them, but all of this points to specialist health care. However, I would point out that this year, for the first time this year, we have the opportunity to have additional tests paid for in primary health care such as small surgical procedures, which has not yet been recorded by the ECG. And I think it's a good move. Here I would like to refer to Article 24 that means that health homes can have a pharmaceutical activity, or a pharmacy. I particularly welcome these changes, and I think that it has removed one of the illogicalities that has existed so far, where, for example, Article 25 says that everything is primary health care and it is also stated that it is also a pharmaceutical activity. Article 68 speaks of what the House of Health is doing. He's conducting primary health care. So far, it has been said that the House of Health, which conducts primary health care, cannot have its own activity, while all other natural and legal persons can establish this activity. This provision will not endanger anyone because there is a rule that regulates where a pharmacy can be established, that it must satisfy both the population and the distance and everything. So the House of Health will be just one institution that will be equal to all other natural and legal persons. What I would refer to here, which would still express my opinion on Article 4 when it comes to specific health care, which I am particularly interested in considering that I am also a specialist in medical work and that I am really addressed and most of all when it comes to health care. Here one part is now deleted, that health care costs are borne by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute according to special regulations. I'd like to ask the proposer. Mr. Secretary of State, the Proposer would like to reconsider this article. I think that this provision, that there is a possibility that the HZZO bar from the supplementary insurance would bear part of the cost of specific healthcare because it is not logical that an employee who is to go to prove a professional illness can't do it because he is going to his own burden, and there is also this fund that is paid out of 0.5% of the gross salary paid for accidents at work and occupational illness. A part of the specific health care could also be financed from this fund. And especially when we are talking about the protection of workers now, then more and more pronounced diseases are related to work that significantly burdens then and basic health insurance. I'd like to present my opinion on the supplemental work. I absolutely support the possibility of a doctor working in supplemental work. We had a provision that only teachers could do so, so we saw that it was constitutionally disputed, that, in the end, the Labour Act allowed workers to work extra 40 hours. And here we see that part of the fund is hours and reduced. I don't think it's any problem if you want to control how many individual employees work in a health care facility. And I don't think I see anything controversial about it, or what kind of competition it is to work in private offices or other health institutions. But here I express my opinion that even this provision that was available to work in the health care facility where she was employed, I think that might leave that as a possibility. I think the work we've done so far is because it was only possible in a health care facility and that health care institutions didn't have much use for it. It is good that when the minister issues a solution to this supplemental work, that it will also be declared to the tax administration, I think that there really should be order in place, that such work is legalised and that all other obligations are paid. When it comes to strike, I have never been much of an advocate of strike, because in the former system, and I found it humiliating that a doctor who puts so much effort and does such a responsible job must seek his rights. However, there is still a need to consider here how much I see the opportunities for the strike are significantly narrowed down, so there is still a need to agree with the social partners. And when it comes to this coverage of losses for the county, I have to read article 52 of the valid Health Protection Act. If a loss occurs in the activities of a healthcare institution, the loss shall be covered by the founder in accordance with the Health Institute Act. And here in Article 58, I will only do this part when it comes to the director, says: The loss covered by the founder in accordance with Article 52 of this Law. So it's been legal so far. But the truth is they weren't sitting on top of the county when it came to solving the hospital's losses. But there's a real order to be introduced. When we had a consultation of the Association of Employers in Health, we highlighted positive examples of hospitals that could function and work quite well, while others who were constantly creating loss. And you need to see what's causing one hospital to do successfully, to invest in space, equipment, to invest in personnel, that patients are happy to go there until others do. That's why I believe that this decision in and the Priory should not cause one disagreement. And I'd just say, I can see that my time is running out, that there was talk here that this article 37 is that physiotherapists and nurses are doing home care and other services under the supervision of physicists, or doctors. I think that's absolutely how it should stand, as a doctor I fully support it because it's teamwork and we can't each of us do it on our own and separately and I think that this formulation that is now put forward that I fully support it. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38309	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38310	It is completely incorrect what a colleague claims, that this law gives local self-government the opportunity to establish health institutions in their area according to their needs. That's not what this law does. It's already in the law. This law does not give them any right but gives them a commitment. The obligation to resolve losses, not to say how they will comply with that decision, that obligation. Some medical institutions, for example, are to be established. both on islands and in other units of local self-government and loss, any loss of work of these institutions will have to be borne by units of local self-government without the legislator telling us in which way. No law, no new obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38311	And a second correction, a respected representative of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38312	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Lelic, who said that the hospitals had no use for additional work. That's absolutely incorrect. In this way, additional revenues were created for the hospital and others, in such work were employed and paid not only by doctors but also by other hospital staff who therefore worked at those moments with doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38313	Replica, a respected representative of Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38314	Well, in this replica, I wanted to look back on that part of my colleague's discussion about the functioning, the role, and the benefits of my health home. Why do I want to say something? Because for years we have actually been avoiding to speak openly about this problem that occurred at the time when the privatisation of primary health care, which was the essence and basis of the functioning of the homes of health, took place in a completely wrong way. Health homes as it is now regulated by law, but also as it proposes to be regulated by this new law will not fulfill the function they would like and have had. Namely, the health homes were created by the Printer model and they were a base that made health care available to patients in Croatia and accessible not only territorially but also in the quality and width of the services they received. Unfortunately, today is no longer the case, and this is the only thing I would say is a cosmetic attempt to get rid of something. Past amendments to the law aimed at reducing administration and reducing costs, but objectively health homes do not exist, and if we do not face this problem seriously, we will continue to accumulate and spread the problem we have. And another thing I wanted to say. Decision in the law relating to nurses, the demeaning of nurses and their professional associations to the benefit of the medical profession. It is undeniable that doctors and sisters must cooperate and cooperate, but it is also uncontestable that nurses who have the only option in the care of the patients in the house, acknowledge the possibility of working so that they can be supervised by their professional association, such as in the medical or any other profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38315	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38316	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I would say about the home of health certainly if we had supported it and if I did, I agree that it is, we all know that it is the printing model, that there was availability and everything. However, the privatisation process, in the end, we know that it had to be turned around and that in most European countries it is a matter of private practice in primary health care. That should, I don't think that showed any particular shortcomings in that. I can speak accordingly for my home of health, but I also have broader aspects of it and that even now, if it is about the tenant that the home of health, the director of the institution is responsible for the regularity of the work and so on. However, I could not in any way agree that the home of health does not exist. The home of health exists in other environments. The truth could have experienced certain status changes, since it is not necessary in some environments or in some counties to have seven or eight health homes, but it is no good to impose that there is only one. Let the county decide that according to its needs. And me, here's how it can be that the home of health doesn't exist. Let's say we have 145 employees, we have other services that, because now there's a possibility that the home of health will also have a palitative care, a mental health center and a series of other services that will eventually be the coordinator of this health care in its field. Therefore, I still see the role of health homes in the good and future, and the privatisation process certainly must continue but is not forced. If anyone wants to go out on a lease, they can go out and they don't have to, so I don't think there should be any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38317	Thank you. Second replica, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38318	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would say a few words actually about county hospitals because here almost every speaker highlights the problem of funding local administration etc. We need to start with the fact that the Croatian state has 4.5 million people, that there are 22 hospitals at the county level, that there are 27 special hospitals, that there are 14 clinical clinics, etc. Now I leave it to all of you to think about whether it's a lot or not. That they are geographically deployed even where the population is the most, but 20 kilometers you can't find without having two hospitals. Chakovec, Varazdin, for example. 17 kilometers. I don't want to go any further. So here the question is now easily raised, but there is something else that every local government I mean here specifically to the mayor, all of them want in their county to have one representative hospital, a hospital that will serve their insurance companies, their population, but that all special services will be combined here. So we have oculistics, otolinoralingology, orthopedics and a little more cardiosurgery. It's a big question whether we need it or not. Or it will be 4, and when we have God that we now have a traffic connection that there is no, an hour to two maximum that can't be in 4 large centres of Split, Rijeka, Zagreb and Osijek any sick person brings and then is treated for the best cabins of the profession and what's good for him. After all, any such patient was then treated in the best institutions. We see something here that nobody's talking about. I know it's popular for her, what kind of mayor would have agreed to do something to him from the hospital. I look forward to one thing, which is accreditation and categorization of hospitals that this ministry has announced, so it might be a little bit in that sense that will help solve these things financially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38319	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38320	Here I can say that I fully agree with the expressed opinion of the esteemed colleague Turic, but the question of the hospital is an extremely sensitive issue and I know in the past when it was both the number of beds and the number of departments that it has always been so that everything needs to be done and that the time must come when we will set realistic possibilities. But I would like to point out once again, that this will improve one financial discipline in hospitals, because indeed some hospitals succeed with so many funds that are certainly not enough, successfully working until others do. Here, I've had here since 2002, let's say the Pula Hospital hasn't paid a contribution to employment, a contribution to health, pension insurance and has created losses of around 35 million kunas that the state has recovered. The question arises and we hear later that the hospital has been in difficulty again, why some hospitals have or do not think that these provisions will in any case help to establish better financial discipline in hospitals, and surely a solution will be found again as well as so far that legitimate losses are met if they arise, but so far it has really been in practice that the one who works well and does well can get the limit of the next year, and the one who is constantly creating losses and its losses we settle and then, in fact, by making such decisions, we support those who are irresponsiblely carrying out their duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38321	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38322	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to take a little polymize with the pleasure that my colleague has expressed with regard to supplemental work. Namely, I have two problems with it, the first question of competition to my own company, I know that this measure is a substitute for the state's ability to reasonably and decently pay doctors, however, is likely to move our health concept, move towards market conditions, all talk about someone working in Vinograd and in the afternoon on Rebr or vice versa, as if he's working in Sony Ericsson in the afternoon at Panasonic, for example, and I think it's going to become impossible very soon. The second from the patient's point of view, my point is very unsympathic because I think few people have not tasted that very often happens to be factual, and some times and clearly consistent actions of force patients that come from the health care system they have in the afternoon or some other time for private treatment and that it is an unprincipled relationship with patients and if there is already such complementary work, I think that rigorous measures should be taken to control whether patients are forced to move from the social protection regime to the private office regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38323	Thank you very much, the reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38324	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's one more time he's got to point out as a doctor. I really support extra work, but I support him as a patient. I don't think that extra work should be denied to doctors if all other workers have the right to work overtime on why they shouldn't have the right and doctors. Normally with all these control measures. I think that now, we can't go into a broader explanation, that the work of a doctor at the hospital is limited by the number of services, etc., that this creates waiting lists, not because there might be something that might not be done and I think it's possible to work in the supplemental work that's quite justified, that it won't damage anyone and that those who are willing and want to pay for the service want to get in order sooner, that they don't wait for it to be made possible and I don't see anything wrong in it. I think that these eight hours a week which provides the possibility of working out of full-time that it's not much and that it certainly wouldn't burden the doctor of the one who works in one health care facility so that he can't handle it, after all, we all know that many of us do many of our jobs even more in comparison and when it comes to university professors, and anyone else that this way we place our services to those who need it, so I really don't see anything wrong about seeing good. I'm saying I'd only give it a chance in my personal opinion that those who decide to do it in the health care facility that they do it in. And with all kinds of control measures and a major shift in what will be immediately notified and the tax administration means all of this will in some way become more legal and more rules in that regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38325	Thank you. Replica Honored Representative Plasimir Mršić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38326	Your Honor. I'd like to take my colleague and I out of the way on this hospital debt settlement provision. She said about it, here's what we have to be surprised at when it was written in the 2003 law. I am not surprised that it was written in the Law of 2003, but it was written in Law 97 and it was written not only in this Law but also in the Law on Institutions, where it is said that the administrative council, i.e. the director, is responsible for the business of the institution and so on for covering possible losses, but I am now asking the question whether anyone from 97 or 93 to today has been removed from directors because of the losses, not the state has been rehabilitated so far and has always done the same losses, always the same hospitals, the same directors were doing losses, and the same hospitals and the same directors were always doing business in accordance with what the administrative council had brought them and who had been punished, were punished patients and directors who worked in accordance with the business plan, because they did not buy the devices that others bought because they did not needy workers in the hospital, because they might not have been able to provide services that others. And now we're still hearing the thesis not only that we have to do, but now someone's going to decide that this hospital over there doesn't have to do any services, because the state determines what services a hospital can do, so of course the county hospital won't be able to do profitable projects, or it won't be able to do expensive operations, but it'll be doing checks that are mostly less costing and less points worth doing. Finally someone else will bring value to the score, but the founder who in no way can influence the responsibility if he is in dissent of income and expenditure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38327	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38328	Well, here's an esteemed colleague, Mršić, who said what I also pointed out that the same hospitals create loss often times doesn't have to be a strict rule that the same directors are doing and that no one has ever been responsible for it. Well, I think it's quite an emergency for these cases to be reduced. That it is not wrong to interpret that I am now an advocate that the counties are strictly to be held accountable, first my county will be difficult to endure because there are two hospitals that have been killed by war well Vinkovačka was mostly restored, Vukovar has had a stalemate in the past four years, so now this year it has been intensely renewed so it has been unable to provide services and certainly these losses of the county cannot bear, but it will tend to introduce more order for which I am and it is possible that the limit that is obtained for normal functioning of the hospital and normal development and because these limits and formed on that basis, according to the number of employees and the services that can be done. And I can tell you that some hospitals also have trouble making that number of services and making some of them sure as hell don't. But these limits aren't made up by heart, they're designed for the normal functioning of the hospital, and eventually these limits change. These restrictions change and increase in relation to the real needs of the hospital and to the methods they introduce in their treatment. So that should all be in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38329	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovačević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38330	Dear Mr. President, in the name of the Croatian Party Club, I ask you to be quick to really resolve the question whether it is true that today the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are leaving for the United States for a military exercise with the units of the National Guard of Minnesota. According to our knowledge, this morning Mr. Cain asked this military exercise begins on June 10th of this year, and we ourselves know that according to the Law of both the Constitution and the Law on the Defence of Armed Forces and Parts cannot go outside without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. I also asked Minister Roncevic if it's true, he says the predecessor is coming but we still have the knowledge that the entire platoon is ready, that the entire platoon today travels to the United States of America so we shouldn't allow it, tolerate illegal treatment if it's true. Thank you very much. So full information please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38331	Thank you very much. I will give one explanation because I have collected certain information and after the beginning of today's session, the respected representative Cain called for a newspaper report. I called Mr. Roncevic's defence minister about an hour ago and got the next explanation. Not today. Today, this part of the pedestrian water does not go, does not travel to Minnesota for military exercise along with the Minnesota National Guard, but only on Friday. It was published in the paper today that today is a ceremony. It's a send-off but not a path. So we will try to discuss this today because in the proposal for this decision on the maintenance of military exercises and bilateral military exercise at the end of September 2005, in the area of Pula airport, Minnesota June, in the area of Albania during July, a multilateral military exercise in Georgia and a multilateral military exercise in October 2005 in the Ukraine area. We need to resolve another dilemma about whether this is an application of Article 7(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which, if that is the case, the Croatian Parliament must make a preliminary decision on which the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross its borders or cross its borders or, as necessary, Article 82(3). The Constitution of the two-thirds majority for the approval of the Assembly for the application of Article 7(2) or Article 7(3). The Constitution when armed forces can cross the border exercise of Croatia within international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed on the basis of international contracts and in order to provide humanitarian assistance where a previous decision of the Croatian Parliament is not provided for under the Constitution. Here, that's an explanation. I suggest that today, after this point, we discuss the proposal for this decision and that the clubs take care when we try to vote today. 102 votes are needed, that is one continuity, one continuation of multilateral exercises in the multilateral relations between the participation of Croatian armed forces in military exercises outside Croatia's borders. Let's move on to the debate now. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38332	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me, without any political introduction, put my opinion on this bill in the articles. In connection with the often mentioned Article 2 in conjunction with Article 9 of the existing law on the coverage of losses, this is, in fact, and I agree with my colleague Mršić, it is only an highlighted obligation of the founder who existed before, as an obligation established by the establishment of an institution, because in that decision it is said that the founder is in full and unlimited responsibility for obligations, etc., etc. finished the quote. As regards this article, therefore, the opinion is divided because it can be positive because it stresses the county's responsibility in managing the institution while at the same time responsible for all those participating in the appointment of members of the administrative councils but can, of course, be negative because there is the biggest problem with the recovery of fixed debts. Why? Because the fusing of health homes in a single county home of health has come to the conclusion that many debts were not shown in the process when the county health home was formed, that there was an enormous surplus worker and that the single health home had not received the means of severance to resolve it, that many judicial disputes were inherited that burdened the business of that institution. And I don't agree with what's been said that it's not true that no one's ever been replaced by it. Yes, it's been removed, if you want at the end of this debate I'll give you the information. I believe that Article 3 should also be added in conjunction with Article 18 of the existing law, where "professional diseases" should be "and work-related diseases". Why? Because these are the most common causes of the improvement, sickness and early retirement in the European Union countries and are directly consumed in these countries by approximately 2.8 gross social products. These work-related diseases account for almost 99% of all diseases and for their occurrence are premature occurrence or deterioration of working conditions of one of the cofactors. These diseases are always preventable and the primary prevention of these diseases is currently the primary objective of protecting workers' health in the European Union countries. Furthermore, Article 4 in conjunction with Article 20 of the existing law, other than the definition of the costs of specific health care, should be regarded as having to be provided to each worker and that it should be free of charge for the worker. It should also be complemented by a statement that specific health care is for workers to achieve it through compulsory health insurance in case of occupational diseases, work injuries and other diseases related to work. In Article 6 of the current law, Article 22 emphasizes the responsibility of patients for their own behaviour, and I think it is good to avoid all risk factors for the preservation of their own health. Article 7 in conjunction with Article 25 of the existing law, subparagraph 11 of this Article, a single error in the medical work, the health care of workers should be written because the medical work is a profession and not a form of health care. In the light of Article 13 of the current law, Article 54 of the Law points to a tightening of the control and obligation of the financial report. I think that's good because they're the only indicator of the financial situation in the facility. Article 14 which speaks of Article 55 of the existing law, director and necessary scientific calling, I think we do not necessarily need this because many of those who have organisational and management skills and do not have a scientific calling and would be hospital directors, I think we can look at it with a lot of aspects, but I don't think it's necessary. Article 21, in conjunction with Article 67a and (b) of the existing Law, it is good that it determines the size of the structural structure units because they are important to determine the pay coefficients, but here in this Bill proposal there has been hypernormality where the criteria for individual departments are above the almost criteria for the establishment of clinics. In Article 22, in conjunction with Article 68, this is the most important paper for primary health care. I tend to support it because I know everything that happened in the fusion of health homes in the County Health Home of Split-Dalmatia County. But here's the Secretary of State asking you, have you thought about what will happen to the homes of health on the islands where they are bound to be set up, what will happen to the activity of emergency medical aid on those same islands? Whether this will be resolved through the provisions of the statutes, i.e. the Act establishing a home of health because in these environments they are necessarily bound and directed to each other. And it is stated and is in accordance with paragraph 2 of the same article, therefore, it should either be deleted or supported by my proposed solution. Article 23 and 24 in conjunction with Article 69, I think it is good news because pharmaceutical activity was the only source of income especially in small health homes while avoiding the possibility of them being, i.e. medicinal products with an integral part or an extended arm of large manufacturers or drug distributors. Article 39, in conjunction with Article 158, I agree with the part which is abolished by supplementary work in my own institution. But believe all of you who talk about it, ask yourselves how many houses, especially houses outside of Zagreb, hospital institutions have come to life. And in those who have brought more problems and disagreements than benefits and I support the current work proposal, the addition work as one that will still bring less problems and less conflict of interest. Restricting the right to strike, I think, too, is too limited, but at the same time in the proposed proposal, there has been a chasing of the concepts of ownership and employer. Because the employer is not the ministry and the county, they are the founders of the owners and employers are the homes of health, hospital and clinical hospital centres. Here, I have tried to point out exactly maybe taxively to these articles, it might be even more generally talked about this, but I believe that many of these remarks will be accepted, and that the proposings will accept suggestions and, for the second reading, prepare the bill acceptable to everyone in the expensive healthcare chain, primarily to the users, i.e., our patients where we will continue to remain the problem that we will all have to solve together. And this is how to manage and respond to all the challenges that conditions centralized financing of the health system against decentralised management of the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38333	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38334	Thank you very much. So I have to correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Buchanan, when he mentioned Article 9 proposed, to supplement paragraph 2 and to refer to Article 52 of the existing Law. In particular, Article 52 regulates the obligations of the founders of health institutions and not units of regional and local self-government, while Article 9(2) speaks in the counties and cities. Therefore, the founder of general hospitals, health homes, public health services and pharmacys cannot be cities. These are completely two different blank instruments, two different founders and two different obligations. And if your claim is that even under the current law, it was that the founders cover losses, but it says in accordance with the Law on Institutions, then why change the law, why do you supplement the law then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38335	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38336	I refer to Article 209 of my colleague, Lesar, here is my written discussion, at no point, I never mentioned Article 52 in any way. You've obviously heard wrong. And I can give you a discussion, I was talking about Article 2 in connection with Article 9 of the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38337	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Representative is right. Replica. Who reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I broke his Rules of Procedure, but I had to listen to it all the way and you didn't correct the incorrect allegations. Replica Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38338	So I'd like to relate to what my colleague Lesar justifiably warned and I don't think he broke the Rules of Procedure because my colleague Kayo was talking about articles, but the essence of it is that, not only was the responsibility for the created losses of the existing one, for the malpractice of county hospitals, for what someone didn't, and that someone was the state from the 90th to 2001 of those county hospitals because it didn't even pay for depreciation, now wants to switch to cities and municipalities. However, if you so extensively interpret responsibility, then let's also interpret the law because Article 42 says that the founder of a health institution in the statute says that the provision on the funds necessary for the establishment and start of work and the way they are supplied and provided. So let's let the founders determine what means it takes for that facility to work. So let the founder of the county say that more income from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is needed on the basis of mandatory contributions paid. Then let's define it so that the counties that pay more in the Health Insurance Office and get more from that Health Insurance Office and not... Who will be responsible for the fact that 10 years of hospitals built by mahogany by citizens with self-dependence, the state has not maintained but has not even been paid for by depreciation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today you have a situation that even supply is centralized. That the founder will not be able to decide what he needs from the apparatus at the county hospital but will be decided by a commission in the ministry. But the responsibility for not producing the desired effects will be borne by the directors and ultimately by the taxpayers of one county again because they once bear responsibility by paying a mandatory contribution to the Health Insurance Office. That's what this law is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38339	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38340	Well, there's nothing to say, I think a lot of things you said don't hold water. Not to hold water for the simple reason that that part of the contract of a health institution with HZZO is only one part of the funds they have. Now, I leave that to you, not to ask me, but here you have answered my line for my exposure. Yeah. The law needs to be read, the instruments of establishment and then remembered which one is the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38341	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38342	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Great progress in medicine science opens up the possibility for a whole series of new and medical procedures to the welfare of individual and human beings as a whole, but at the same time it hides the potential danger of the consequences of individual achievements. Taking into account both potential and real risks, it has been recognised that legislative forms are necessary. the laws to ensure and protect the rights of individuals and companies in the use of healthcare. The Declaration on the promotion of patients' rights in Europe regulates human rights and values in health care. According to that declaration, everyone has the right to respect him as a human being, everyone has the right to safeguard physical and mental integrity and protect his personality. Everyone has the right to respect their moral and cultural values and religious and philosophical beliefs as well as the greatest possible protection of their health. In order to comply with the provisions of the same Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Patients' Rights, the Republic of Croatia has also adopted the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. In the Republic of Croatia, the right to health is a constitutional category for all its citizens. And citizens' rights in the achievement of healthcare are regulated by the Health Protection Act, whose amendments and additions seek to improve the exercise of these rights. As signatories to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being with regard to the application of medical achievements, we have committed ourselves to regulating our legislation in order to enable the application of the provisions of that Convention. The Health Protection Act lays down high moral, ethical and civic standards, behaviour and users and healthcare providers. In the already recognised rights of citizens in achieving healthcare based on the provisions of that law in the implementation of those in practice, difficulties have arisen and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted this amendment to the Health Protection Act in order to address these difficulties and improve citizens' rights in healthcare. What is being improved by these changes and additions to the legislative proposal? First, in order to implement a health policy in which the emphasis is placed on the preservation and improvement of health and the longer and better quality of life and individuals and the entire population of this legislative proposal, the rights and responsibilities of persons in the achievement of healthcare are particularly determined, complementary to the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Patients. The proposed legislative proposal specifically norms that any business-affiliated person responsible for preserving and improving his or her own health must take action to avoid risk factors that endanger human life and health. Which means there is more responsibility for your own health. Secondly, the proposed legislative changes and additions allow for the establishment of health homes in units of regional, regional self-government at the level of primary health care activities, thus removing difficulties resulting from inequalities with regard to the quality and availability of public health care. Thus, this legislative proposal provides for the compulsory establishment of health homes on our islands, which will mean a great deal to our islands. Thirdly, this legislative proposal allows healthcare professionals who are in a working relationship with the healthcare institution to work additionally and in other health institutions performing health care as well as health care professionals performing private practice. This additional work issue is very questionable and I agree with many who have shown a reserve here according to the supplemental work. My opinion would be that we should strictly separate ourselves from the social one. Fourthly, this legislative proposal allows each medical institution to organise a Committee on Medicinal Products as a body that ensures that all activities related to the examination and use of medicinal products and medicinal products in a medical institution are carried out. And according to the Drug and Medical Products Act, the work is now being carried out by the Central Ethics Commission. At the end of the proposed legislative changes and additions with an existing ban on strikes in health institutions, emergency medical care and emergency medical services, a ban on strike is introduced in other services of health institutions for certain tasks, which are taxed in the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, which is, in fact, a restriction of the right to strike. I personally believe that these restrictions are also necessary in order to protect human health and to protect human health as well as healthcare professionals. In line with everything, I am convinced that the proposed solutions in this legislative proposal will bring greater protection to citizens in the exercise of the right to health care and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the health system, while improving the availability and quality of health services. So I propose that, by adopting this proposed law, I think that healthcare needs one systematic reform and that only one such reform will bring about a better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38343	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Changes introduced by the current Health Protection Act, which at the level of primary health activities resulted in status changes in the form of the merger of health homes and units of the regional self-government in the Single House of Health in practice, have resulted in difficulties resulting in inequalities in the quality and availability of health care for the population. Article 22 of this Bill provides for the possibility of establishing at least one House of Health in the area of the County and at least three homes of health in the city of Zagreb. Furthermore, the islands due to their specificity are a special story and seeing the problems facing the island's population, Article 22 further provides for the compulsory establishment of health homes on the island of Brac, Cres, Hvar, Korčula, Krka, Lošinj, Rab and Vis. This change of law is welcome anyway. I don't know what the situation is in other counties that have spent the merger of health homes. But many problems have arisen in Split-Dalmatia County. First of all, I believe that the process of bringing together health homes in my county has been carried out hastily without the whole procedure being thoroughly prepared to address all the problems that can arise in this process. Home of health of Split-Dalmatia County, a large mastodont with about 720 employees. The territory that covers is among the largest in Croatia. Some outposts are up to 100 kilometers away. Furthermore, the Split-Dalmatia County area is uneven. It covers the coast, islands, Zagora, the Zagora part. Tourism needs are also expressed. Such an important decision has not been taken by the County Assembly but by the county headship without the prior consent of the representative bodies of those units in whose areas the House of Health will be covered by the unification, which is contrary to Article 35(6). Law on local and regional regional self-government. And now there are a number of problems. I'll just take some out. The Department of the House of Health is poorly teamed. No head of accounting, assistant director is resolved due to conflicts of interest, communication between the head of the premises and the management of the House of Health is weak. Only one meeting has been held so far. The institution's statutes are missing and need to be completed urgently. The rules are not fully accepted or adopted after a year. Excessive workers' program is a burning problem, and it's not solved. Financial business is bad, debts are big. All in all, the goal that was to achieve or one of the goals, which are organisational improvements, has not been achieved, but the situation is getting worse. We all agree on, we advocate decentralisation and transfer as many powers as possible to the units of the regional (regional) self-government, because who knows better what priorities and problems should be addressed in some environment if not the local community. But what happened in case of a health care facility? Decentralised funds are arriving in the county, but very few of these funds come to end users. The Makarska home of health is largely built by the self-dependence of citizens. The citizens of Makarska gave up part of their income in order to have as high quality health care as possible, and this home of health is based on the services and types of examinations he has given to patients always out of the usual standards of home health. That is why he became a co-operative institution of the Faculty of Medicine in Split. What is left of such a home of health today? It is enough to look at what a derivative state the building itself is today, and it was once a very nice building that we all in Makarska were proud of. There is only one clinical hospital center in the area from Sibenik to Dubrovnik. I already have this information on the availability of health care in the Split-Dalmatia County area. For this very reason, and with the aim of discharging pressure on KBC Split and increasing availability of healthcare, it should seek to strengthen the role of individual health homes that have the possibility and conditions to reach a higher level of medical services such as health homes in Sinj, Makarska and Imotski. In this way, a better network of health institutions and the availability of health services would be achieved, for each individual it would be much better and then it would be a real decentralisation. The active participation of local and regional self-government units in the creation and financing of an increased standard of health care should be ensured, all in the spirit of Article 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to transfer responsibility for the management of these institutions, not to accumulate heavy losses, and no one is responsible for bad business. Article 18 provides that the expert council should coordinate the professional work of a healthcare institution with financial opportunities and develop and monitor the implementation of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. I believe that the composition of an expert council in which politics should be far in the other plan should be taken into account in a very good way, and above all a profession should be represented, a mandatory representative of the HZZO, means someone who is skilled in the bargaining and other business related to the financial operations of the institution. It is also necessary to introduce mandatory practice to conduct a thematic debate on health care and health problems in the city council on a yearly basis in the area of health. In this way, problems would be located in time and looking for a way to solve them, not as if problems had accumulated and put under the rug instead of being dealt with in time. The bill of law that lies before us makes no sense to me who will be the owner of the health care home. For example, the island of Brac is predicted to have its own home of health. The founder of this home of health is the town of Supetar, so I wonder if the town of Supetar will own the new home of health or whether it will be a county. I would also like to know if the Government is also predicting the return of emergency medical assistance in the form of independent health homes which I consider necessary for the overall functioning of the system, especially in tourist areas, and would ask the Secretary of State in his address to answer these questions. Article 55 says that health care homes are obliged to organise a pharmaceutical activity which is in any case to welcome, and further Article 56 says that the health care professionals of the pharmacies who, until the day of entry into force of this law, are to continue their work to rent a pharmacy at home. Now I don't know what places the health care home will then organize its pharmacy if the tenant remains in the health care center. This bill again allows healthcare professionals to carry out the supplementary war at other health institutions. Doctors will certainly be happy with this change, but I wonder if the patients will be happy with it. I do not think that the promoter has taken sufficient care of the possible conflict of interest when it comes to supplementing the work of healthcare professionals, i.e. doing jobs in the profession outside of working hours. It seems to me that there is no criterion that the employer would be obliged to adhere to when granting authorisations to healthcare professionals for supplementary work outside of a health institution where they are employed indefinitely. Who guarantees that a health worker will use his regular working hours fully and will not deliberately reject patients so that he can order them into his private hospital. I believe that protective mechanisms that would prevent these things from happening in practice are very weak and unspeakable. The question also arises as to what is the case with young doctors who have just graduated from college and who have a very difficult time getting specializations, as their old colleagues cover part of the need for health care by supplemental work. I think the promoter of these amendments to the Health Protection Act and should have thought about this problem. The fact is that the health system is in major financial problems, but these problems will not be dealt with more significantly by measures such as the introduction of participation on every recipe as planned by the Government. It is a measure that will primarily have an additional impact on citizens' standards, especially those of poorer assets, and large savings will not be achieved. I believe that more significant savings could be achieved to control the prescription of medicines, or whether the doctor prescribes the most expensive medicines, and there are those that are cheaper and equally effective. I suppose that should be one of the tasks of the Committee for Medicinal Products whose establishment is prescribed in Article 20 of this proposal. So it should be internal control, a body that would make sure that doctors don't resort to those most expensive drugs. Finally, if we are already talking about the need for health savings, then it should be stressed that primary health care has a major impact on overall health spending because it addresses the main health needs of the public. The way and address these needs is inevitably reflected in the health consumption of the entire health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38345	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think that one part of her debate was a little late, especially those related to the hasty integration of health homes, more health homes in a home of health. It is these changes in the law that allow regional and local self-government to choose one or more health homes. I was a participant of the health and health care homes in our county as well as in all other counties when Minister Vlahusic, so in the past government, made such a decision and I can tell you even the regulation that we have survived and the order that those counties, therefore those regional and regional self-governments that did not make at a certain time decide on the merger of health homes into one will be suspended for funding. I'm sorry about that regulation, and I don't have that government decree here, but it existed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38347	Thank you. Replica's reply, the distinguished representative Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I don't know why my colleague claims I'm late for this debate. In fact, the fact is that what you were now talking about was in the bill of law that is still in force, means the decision to merge health homes. I'm not saying at all, and I'm not saying that this idea of uniting health homes into a single home of health was a bad idea. It primarily sought to improve the organisation, or in some ways, to reduce administrative staff in health homes. However, the decision when it was being implemented was then to be thoroughly prepared, to take a thorough look at all the consequences and all the problems that will arise from such a rather extensive process and process, which are in certain counties. Here I was talking exclusively about Split-Dalmatin County, and I don't know what the situation is in other counties? Do they have problems like this? I think it went literally overnight to make a decision like this, and that no decision has been made without the statutes being made at all. The health home of the Split-Dalmatian County is registered in the Commercial Court without statutes. The statute was later adopted. I think it's been more than a year, more than a year, that other acts have been passed, such as the systematicization of jobs, I don't know if they've been passed since today. Therefore, the implementation of such a decision in practice has been poorly carried out and therefore I say that it is good to re-examine or whether a county should only have one. In some counties one home of health will be sufficient, but for Split-Dalmatinska certainly one House of Health is not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38349	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38350	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the law that I support because they represent improvement in a whole series of elements of the current provisions of the law. In particular, it corrects the errors of the last four-year term when the Law passed in 1993 brought a whole series of illogicalities. I welcome this Law and because it is a bridge to a major reconstruction of the health system that is inevitably following us in the near future not because of the pressure of the IMF, not because of the customs of the European Union, but simply because of the fact that the health system in the Croatian state remains and survives. In the way it is now financially cannot be maintained absolutely. And that reconstruction that will follow, which I think these changes and add only one override and facilitate the functioning of the system until then. So that reconstruction is the one that follows other reconstructions, for example in the pension system, in the education system where we had to introduce unfortunately payments because they were introduced by other countries everywhere. And it's in the pension system, all those gatherings where the insurance company pays itself so in the education system where I pay if I haven't scored enough points where I pay different, different trainings after graduation and so on, they've gone less without a bigger debate. I am sure that payment in the health care system will cause great debates because healthcare is not only in Croatia, in all countries of the world the best subject of politicisation. That's why I think in this, in these changes and additions, a few key things should be supported by that period. First of all, the provision that the founder covers the loss. This is a provision that we found when we arrived in 2004 in the law, and was adopted in 2003 in a famous article 52, which says that if a loss occurs in the activities of a health institution, that loss shall be covered by the founder in accordance with the Law on Institutions. We were surprised by such a formulation, but we inherited it and we respect it. This is a formulation which is now absolutely not changed in anything other than allowing the founder, establishing the county level that the decentralised assets that he receives and which he has received in parallel with the amendment of this Act in 2003 can also be used to partially cover those costs which he could not cover from HDZ funds and others. There are a lot of contradictory opinions here, as I see it is actually a fundamental issue of centralization or decentralisation of the health system. This amendment to the law doesn't, it doesn't solve or that's her goal. This will be dealt with in these large laws, in particular, by the Health Insurance Act, which follows. There'll be a chance to discuss it. But I would say several experiences from the past 15 years of Croatian health insurance. Every decentralization satisfies the local administration, but the state's cash register carries 20 to 30% more money. We had examples in 1990 when we inherited 113 SIZs, 113 decentralised institutions that were self-determining, and then the war came and we reduced gross national income by 50% in one year, so the money was reduced by 50%. What have we done? Centralization. And maintain the system. The centralisation that we have then carried out is certain that in the future it must be loosened, however, it has entered the European health system as a Croatian model or a "Croatian model" for all situations and for all crisis financial conditions. We had opportunities to do so and get the chairmanship at a meeting of 50 health ministers, 50 countries where this model was absolutely accepted and recommended for crisis situations. When the crisis situation in the Croatian economy passes, it will be decided of course by this House and then we can decentralisation. However, I warn that decentralisation that will come at that time is very dangerous because it abolishes another, another institution that is the cornerstone of the health insurance of a socially conscious state. It's solidarity. If we were to give the counties, for example, insurance, then there would be a huge difference in the level of health care between Istria and Zagreb on the one hand and let's say Lika-Senj County and Vukovar-Srijemska on the other. So the comparison we heard today is not here, unfortunately, Mrs Antunovic and the remarks that went to the lady's hospital show a complete misunderstanding of this problemq. The lady hospital cannot remain and survive on self-financing of the county nor can it still withstand high-level decentralisation for now. Why? Because in 1991, during the Serbian aggression, only three doctors remained. When you destroy the institution's personnel structure, then from its function for the next 15 years until you restore the personnel, there's nothing. And that hospital, I have to say, which was in 1996, 630 hospitalized patients are now 2,000 a year. The hospital that restored the medical staff, which has several dozen young people in training, the hospital that introduced 30 new methods only last year is not a negative example but a highly positive example of rapid recovery after the 1991 devastation. That's why I think this decentralisation system with county level responsibility is the only solution so far. Those who say, and there have been such remarks that locals can only decide to buy toilet paper means they don't know anything about the management of a health care facility. What can the founder or the county do? First, it can affect 10 to 15% of the income of the average Croatian hospitals outside the HZZO. These are revenues, as counterpart Bucan said, those are revenues that must be made in the supplemental markets, not in the state budget. And the quality of the director is just being reflected in how much of these revenues he's still picked up above the HZZO contract. But much greater influence is founding power because it also determines the Administrative Board of Directors on the spending side. And that is where the founder's responsibility should be introduced because he chooses the board of directors and appoints the director. And what can the board and director do? It can lead to the current absurd situation that two county hospitals of the same level, the same capacity or similar, the same levels of expertise have differences in expenditure up to 30% per month. Why? Because one is run by the director who was appointed by the founder who knows nothing about hospital management, and the other is run by the one who knows. Let me just mention, for example, the impact on the number of employees. Two equal county hospitals differ up to 20% in the number of people employed per bed. It is the job of the director, or indirect founder. Or, for example, food expenditures, drug expenditures, medical expenditures vary up to 30%, as a curiosity reminds me of one institution that we found in control of spending on a food patient 4 times as much as another neighbouring county hospital, it turns out that it's financing someone's snack bar or a similar institution in the same facility. So this way of decentralisation we have to think of it as a transitional and I understand it that way and I think it's the least evil right now. The second thing I support in this law is Article 13 which is very rarely mentioned and very significant. It says that the administrative board of the institution must analyse the financial operations of the institution once a month. Through this, the founder manages the facility, if analysts are not performed monthly, but as now quarterly, half-yearly, annually, there will be nothing of such business stability. As far as supplemental work is concerned, I would only say that the current provision introduced by the last government to work in its own supplementary work is condemned by the World Health Organization because it is a direct conflict of interest and that it is contrary to the requirements of our patient associations, all the patient associations are asking us to abolish it and, as I see it, the legislator has listened to it and I welcome it. Labour control outside its own institution is guaranteed by the Labour Act, so the Director will only give to one who does not endanger and does not create competition to his own institution, in principle in practice it was when he works in addition work at a service which his institution does not provide, so that conflict of interest certainly will not be. And at the end of the strike. I propose to the legislator to comply these strict provisions with the GSV or better to say with the union's centrals because these union centres have indirectly caused a doctor's strike. We found resources for doctors and secured in the 10% salary increase budget, union centres threatened to withdraw from GSV, so the government withdrew, and now doctors get 10% and do not have to strike any more, I think we should also agree. In conclusion, since I don't have time for further analysis, this is a very high-quality document that will surely bridge a whole series of illogicalities of the current system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38351	Thank you. Here before you let me react I was late when the esteemed representative Antunović mentioned Gossić hospital, Professor Hebrang mentioned now, so allow it in 96, the seventh truth was 630 patients at year level, now over 4000, the professor got lost in 2000, over 4000 here is just enough to know. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representativeplatovar Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38352	So I'd like to correct my colleague Hebrang, the decentralised funds are strictly dedicated and cannot be used to cover the loss of an institution. It would be a violation that would revise the objections and where there would certainly be problems in the audit, so they are used for investment, investment maintenance and purchase of equipment and cannot be used to cover losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38353	Thank you. This was the correction of the incorrect quote so you do not have the right to reply, and the distinguished representative Mršić also came forward for the replica. Later on, I have another correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38354	I would like to correct the alleged respected colleague Hebrang, that in a decentralised model, in health care, solidarity disappears specifically, which is simply not true, because the decentralised model from health insurance, payment of contributions and spending of these funds is in itself, or may have, and that is what we are witnessing, is the element of solidarity of minimum standards at national level. Therefore, this claim that a decentralised health system would lead to a different position of parts of the state only because there is no element of solidarity in it is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38355	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38356	Well, I'll pick up where I left off. Indeed, fellow Hebrang may have been true that centralization, I will call it ethics in the 1990s led to certain savings, but you know what you've been saving on, you've been saving on the maintenance of buildings, you've been saving on buying equipment, because what the citizens of Koprivnica built for 10 years didn't come to that hospital except for what the citizens and businesses have raised to buy from humanitarian actions. You came back, she brought back the state in 2001 of an unsustained hospital, unsustained school, and you saved it, and you saved it so that now that we've maintained the facilities, we have to invest twice as much in them to resuscitate them and to lead them to the situation where they were supposed to have been maintained. IF IT WAS to be considered then, in 90 years, it would have left decentralised funds, and today the state is not giving more decentralised funds than it was at the time when it was all centralized, but it is shown that it is now much more effective at local level with these decentralised funds and that much more can be made out of these decentralised funds, and as far as solidarity is concerned, I have to say that I come from the county which, along with Zagreb and Istria, is the only one who has more deposits in the Health Insurance Office than it is, and we really do not ask for everything to remain with us. There must be a solidarity fund for the hospital in Gospić, Vukovar, Vinkovci and perhaps somewhere else, but then it can't happen that at least the Koprivnica Hospital gets the most Koprivnica citizens into the Health Insurance Fund. It's not good, they all have to get the same and then some countries need a little better care because they can't take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38357	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38358	Thank you very much. So there is no statement by Mr. Mršić that the decentralised funds cannot be used to cover losses, because this is exactly what this bill determines. What's wrong with the decentralised means, we haven't seen anything good in these years of experience. It's bad that a decentralised decision is made on the supply of unnecessary equipment, not to mention a 16-layer CT in one of the hospitals that were recently mentioned because they don't know what to do with it. Secondly, the price of individual purchases of 20% to 30% is higher and precisely decentralised procurement is what the Ministry at the request of local administrations united because they themselves saw that with this money they couldn't buy, so no one forced them to go to centralization. Finally, as for the maintenance of the facilities and where we saved up the 91st and subsequent years of Serbian aggression, Mr. Mrsic did not watch television, so he does not know that there was a war at the time. At the time, it was...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38359	I'm asking you to let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38360	At the time, the Serb aggressor destroyed 6 Croatian hospitals, 4 of them 90%, one even 100% who was in Vinkovci during the war he saw. In the following years, we were building these hospitals with funds for investment, just to mention them Vinkovci, Osijek, Gospić, Slavonski Brod, Vukovar etc. We have restored 42 homes of health, partly or completely etc., there have gone investment funds, so this time has not been built either in Zagreb or in Čakovec, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38361	Thank you. He's got a word. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38362	Hebrang, a colleague, injured from 89 to 214 articles because he insulted Mršić, and I ask you to protect me from doing so. I could not watch my country war on television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38363	Thank you. I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38364	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State! This law, or the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, has been presented to us by the parliamentary representatives here as a single step in health reform. Also, in the light of this proposal, the law states that it is important to seek to achieve standards precisely in providing health care. Equally, it wants to preserve and improve the health, of course, of the sick. That it was not so in one great moment of truth just said by a colleague of Hebrang when he said and assessed this law himself that it was perhaps, in fact, the least evil that threatened her. However, I consider it an unhealthy health proposal. Why? Because it is the government that is complete in its action and is also proposing this bill is in the absence of reform ambitions and determinations, and then it wants to react precisely to this bill in exactly one deficient way of funding. Who and what and what is it really about? With this bill, everything else is less and less important changes are essentially what you were talking about, and most of all you were talking about to cover up essentially the essence, which is that you want to please doctors, and that's to the harm and burden of the patient. How and why? As long as the former minister but in this government concluded that the government itself later commented on a professional contract and then the government only fenced itself or did not want to fulfil the professional contract with doctors, so that even the day the government was unmistakably responding to us and it was not known what legal fate was and what she meant about what was ultimately with the contract. But the consequences of just this kind of irresponsible behavior, whether individuals in the government or the entire government, resulted in such a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, because it wants to calm down and rejuvenate the medical profession. And that is exactly what caused its irresponsible behaviour by a government that cannot keep those promises, not promises, but a signed agreement, a contract that has been concluded with doctors and they are constantly threatening to strike. So it is quite clear that Croatia is located and that it has already been deeply trampled during the period of social tensions, that it threatens to strike doctors, in this way it wants to calm them down, to threaten strike by high school professors, many of the other workers you are now preparing to remove from this small square. That's why little workers can't get on it, I guess that's why it makes sense to you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38365	Dear MPs, I'll give you a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38366	So, what does the government want to do now? Go back to that solution that was before 2000. Therefore, this is not about any reform procedure. However, things are being re-set as they were before 2000, and that is precisely how healthcare professionals can perform additional work not only in a health care institution where they are in a working relationship because it remains on this proposal and that was one, at least in this explanation and writing. This legislative proposal also provides for the possibility for healthcare professionals to work in other health institutions for any commercial society, etc. And that's exactly what's for the greatest conviction, that symbiosis of public and private. Of course, at the expense of the public and in this way, you will essentially devastate public health. After all, the question arises as to who has been in control so far and how you will control working hours a week from 40 hours. Who controlled that? In order to allow such a person, such a doctor, with the employer’s approval, could continue to work in private practices. So this conflict of public and private is something that even exceeds conflict of interest. This is why the promoter is particularly trying here to specify examples of parallel legislation in several countries, but everywhere there is a word where such a doctor gives to a public institution where he is employed and a substantial fee. And here we have heard today that this doctor will even pay taxes for such an activity done in private practice. Wasn't that an obligation so far under the General Tax Code? It's not? Great. I guess the doctors think that these laws are only applicable to them, which are strictly in those concerning the Health Protection Act and that other generals that are worth all the rest of the population, as they used to say, are not worth it. Thus, in all the laws in Germany so in the legislation in France that is also listed here in Denmark, such a doctor gives a substantial compensation to the health care facility in which he is employed. And what exactly is this about? Therefore, the wide open door allows doctors to achieve such an additional job in order to meet the strikes in some way, in order to eliminate the one in the public as well as the condemned agreement or contract, the professional contract with doctors but the basic meaning and the conflict between public and private is that otherwise it is logical and that we have major problems in general in the public sector because everyone removes work from themselves. While it's quite the opposite logic of a privateer, he fights for a job, he fights for a client, he fights here in a particular case for a patient while here in an extraordinary symbiosis that you have enabled them to come to his quite elegantly coming to patients who will then later where he performs his additional practice of course and refer. And this is the source of one incompatibility, and in this way as it has been a restriction so far, yet one and the possibility of this was obviously not enough for the doctors because there were still certain tariffs for such afternoon services, or in the supplemental work, and in addition the full additional staff of that institution participated. So it's something that makes doctors quite inadequate, so this is how they get up. And what is it that is offered and what is it that is a blessing for patients? Well, here's the thing, after all, from my colleague Hebrang's argument, he said that this was a sense of financial survival, financially because you don't know how. Because it's pressing the IMF, because it came to the bill and what was secretly signed last year in the eighth month, and now it's quite clear that out of the current 7.2% of the gross social product of separation there will be no more. That it will fall to 6.5%, therefore, that one billion will be transferred to the account, or to the burden of the sick. All in all, all the legal proposals we had, the poor make them even poorer, and this bill makes them even sicker. Because that's not all, another 10 kuna for the prescription, 10 to 15 kuna for every day at the hospital. So this model is extremely unfair, endangers directly and exclusively sick, patients, abandons the principle of solidarity between healthy and sick, all truth can be sick but the poor are almost without hope. For them, the government prepared the so-called. Standardized quality, read essentially, reduction of rights. So, this proposal is an unhealthy therapy for our health care, for our patients, I only stress the healing dissatisfaction of doctors that this government itself has caused. I'm stressing again on the burden of resuscitating him now, on the patient's burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38367	Thank you. Here, all the public has heard your debate, isn't that what it used to say, some people speak as well now as some. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38368	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that colleague Anticevic initially said that the purpose of this bill is to benefit doctors from the harm of patients. It's just not true, I think the debate so far has been a big defunct of it. To appeal to a professional contract with doctors as a cause of all evil, I think you know very well why this professional contract even retired, that it was purely the involvement of politics precisely because there was no peace in the system when it was already achieved, you know very well, but I should not be entering it now. Therefore, your claim that this is all going to the patient's harm, that's not true. This is work outside the facility, and I said that in my debate, there are several advantages to the one before that. The final chamber of doctors determines the price list of services, everything is clear and the tax administration now has records of all those who work, or will have records of all those who work part-time, which so far has not been, now it will be. They'll all be registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38369	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38370	Thank you very much. The honourary said literally, the government was fenced from a professional contract. The government of the Republic of Croatia cannot pay what is signed in the professional contract and the dissatisfaction of doctors has been caused by the government. After a year of strike with doctors, the government reached an annex of a contract called professional on the GSV proposal at its 65th session, so the GSV agreed. After that, the government secured the money, and if you see fellow respected, this year's budget will see 500 million kuna and in it more for wages, of which 250 million for doctors, 250 million for sisters, so the government has provided money. Then it happens for the first time in the history of the union movement that a group of sister unions prohibits the implementation of medical contracts, therefore, for that contract for which the asset is secured. In order to force the government to accept it, union centrals are pulling out of GSV and thus putting a noose on their necks, the government under their necks. So the government was forced to give up on it, but it reacted tremendously because it still gave the doctors their 10% and they are satisfied now. These 10% exist in the budget as opposed to previous budgets and this exists as an increase in budget compared to last year. 500 million for wages, 500 million for material expenditures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38371	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38372	Not then, if you're going to go, then I won't, I'm not giving up on the replica, I'm not really giving up on the replica. Dear colleagues, you talk all the time about going to doctors, etc., so, as if you're talking about some of the strangers who are not wanted in this country to be driven away, so you need to stimulate them to stay in this room and work for the benefit of both patients and everyone else. On the other hand, all the time you're saying that the health care system in Croatia is bad, etc., I assure you that he is exceptional in terms of health care allocations, and if he compares himself with others, I would say much better than others in the world in terms of isolation. Otherwise how exactly do you explain such claims and if you're unhappy with the system that all these changes that we want to make are you refusing? If you don't even agree with them, why don't you suggest others? This is only the first reading of the law and you have time to have solutions to improve the system to submit your proposals and we will really adopt everything that goes into service. Why would they be against it? We think this is what we suggested to go into favor and will improve the health system. And that's why we're suggesting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38373	Thank you. There she is again. I will use Article 214. The representative shall be given a warning if he is speaking and has not received a permit from the chairman. I'm the president. But the break is now and then. Resume at 3:00. It's 13:30 p.m. ...with the afternoon work of this session. It is next to the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38375	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, so we spent all morning discussing these amendments to the Health Protection Act, and I think as my colleagues said in an individual debate but also Mrs. Antunovic on behalf of the club that it is a law that we cannot support because it is bad in our opinion, which has a lot of illogicalness and, in our opinion, completely unnecessary changes. And in the end it seems to me that some of the provisions, what I already said in one debate, are exclusively buying social peace on the burden of Croatian patients. There was quite a debate this morning about an article in which debts for the operations of a health institution were transferred to their founders. Therefore, it is primarily about county and city hospitals where the burden of business or potential debts of hospitals will be transferred to local self-government units. In our opinion, or in my opinion, at this point, this is incorrect to the units of local self-government. I think even contrary to the Law on the Rights of Local Self-Government Units because they cannot decide or intervene in the way of funding, therefore, the health system in this case of county and city hospitals, and should therefore bear financial costs for certain hospitals. In this way, there may also be a situation where some patients may be sent to other hospitals and will not be given the right health care in the environments that are most accessible to them. It should also be said that not all the measures in the past year and a half that the HDZ government has taken gave positive effects when it comes to the health business that we still have very big losses, that the HZZ has come into a situation that can't pay the drugs to the wholesalers and that from one condition left by the former coalition government where the drugs have been paid for between 120 and 154 days that we have now come into one, one situation where even up to 300 days of paying the drugs, that we are not saying that the situation of loss has been tried and by one famous lending for which the minister in the public is asking who will repay the loan said he still doesn't know. I must admit that I know the answer to who will repay the loan, all of us, therefore, citizens of the Republic of Croatia will repay that loan. For us in the SDP is the primary health care and health system the place of development and not expenditure. And it seems to me that there's a problem here somewhere in our view of the state of health and what health care should be developing. So our orientation when we were in power was primarily focused on the development of those activities in healthcare that are included in the said highly developed health care. I would primarily like to stress here a major step in Croatian healthcare when it comes to transplanting, unfortunately in the last year and a half, and there is a significant decline because it is obviously much more important to go to some investments that have remained unrealized to certain individuals, and because of that, it has suffered, therefore, a specific transplant project, so here for example for the first 6 months we only have 13 transplants compared to the last year when we had about 40. As for one article that emphasizes itself that, namely, it is now arranged that hospital directors should have a scientific teaching title, I must admit that this article in my opinion is completely excessive, I really don't see what a qualification of scientific calling is so crucial for a good teaching position, I think it's primarily important that whoever is in that position has, I would say, managerial skills because it's very important at that point to conduct the business of the hospital and whether it has a scientific teaching position, I think it's much more important for someone else, for another institution, therefore, for the colleges, for another segment, therefore, health care, and in this particular case, when it comes to directors, I think that this is completely excessive and that simply this article should be moved in that section. I really don't think that someone who has a scientific calling that is more qualified to perform that position. For example. Here is counterpart Bačić, the president of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, as far as I know there is no medical teaching and I don't think that would make him much more qualified to perform that function if, therefore, he also had scientific knowledge. So I think this is a completely unnecessary change and I think we should move it. Also this morning there were a lot of words about supplemental work, and I really think that this is something that has been solved so far, not in the happiest way, but I think that this solution that is now being offered, in which doctors will be able to perform, therefore, additional work in private health institutions, is actually an even worse solution than what we have had in the last three and a half years. Thus far, this type of post - day work has been controlled in some way in hospitals. What may be much more important is that hospitals have benefited financially from such work, that they benefit from that supplemental work in hospitals in the afternoon and patients, as well as people who are employed in hospitals such as nurses, technicians, cleaning women, so all the staff that works in a health care facility. Now if all of this is moved into private health institutions simply no, there is no benefit for all those who have benefited so far will benefit only, therefore, private health institutions. It will be very difficult to control and monitor doctors who may be in a position not to meet their normatives in normal working hours, also to receive a large number of patients, or not to receive certain medical care, and then to be sent to private health institutions where a particular doctor will work. So this seems to me to break over the back of patients primarily, and we already have a situation where patients wait very long for some tests and therefore, they are quite dissatisfied with the level and availability of health services. And I think this will reopen another extra space that people will have to further isolate for their health and not get health care where they should get it. As for the provisions governing the strike, it seems to me that these provisions are equally unnecessary and excessive, primarily because doctors have shown as a profession in the past two strikes regardless of which someone agreed with the strike or not that they were one very responsible, so the profession. These people were parallel to fighting for their rights, using the right to strike but also no one, therefore, remained suspended for, protection therefore, their health. And I think that precisely because doctors have shown that one is a very moral and very responsible profession, this is in some way completely unnecessary to limit and prohibit strike in health institutions. Therefore, it would be good if these provisions on the ban on strike were lifted and the possibility would continue to be left to be determined in the event of a strike which parts of health care must therefore be operational and that the latter should be left as it has been so far arranged. Once again, the more health care professionals have indeed shown that they can fight parallelly for their rights but also that they can also care about patient health and be very responsible for their rights, but also that they can also care about patient health and be very responsible in the event that they are therefore on strike. Here I hope that by the second reading this law will still experience some changes and that these things that I think are completely unnecessary and superfluous in this law until the second reading will be left out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38376	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You see, every time some legislative proposal comes from the government not to defend the minister but to send the Secretary of State to defend him in the Parliament, then it tells me that the minister is not actually proud of his watch. I think this is a classic example of a situation like that. A fellow Hebrang said of this bill that he was some kind of bridge towards reform. He's not a bridge towards anything and at least towards a reform that no bridges need. Health needs reform. Now, whether the government has the strength, has the determination and has the knowledge to enter that reform or not, that's another question. But instead of reforming any bridges here they don't need. And that this bill of law that the minister is rightly ashamed of him shows... articles of this law, but others. Article 2 which states that a contract between a legal person or a natural person carrying out a tourist activity and a health institution of a company carrying out a medical activity, or a private healthcare professional, will arrange for the organisation and financing of the implementation of healthcare measures provided to tourists. Please, who are the individuals involved in the tourist activity? They're for example. Private renters of rooms. And now they're gonna make some kind of deal with health care facilities. A man betrays four beds and he will now make a deal. Who's he gonna make a deal with? First of all, if there's a health care facility in that place, a place where he rents rooms. Then by what rules will he make that contract, then what amount, then how will he charge this tourist? It's one papasia, it doesn't mean anything at all. It's completely inconclusive. Then in the end, I don't know if you do, but we and some countries have signed interstate health care contracts. With Austria, for example, Slovenia. That's certainly none of the government's business. That's how left-handed it's written. And it should be a bridge towards reform. So what will reform look like if this is a bridge towards reform? Article 2 is the first sentence which is much more analysed than this second one, which is the obligation of the county and cities to cover the loss of health institutions that they are the founder of. Look, there's no telling again how, how the county will now cover those losses. Well, county budgets are much smaller than the loss of some medical institutions. Secondly, this same law drives them, units of local self-government to establish health institutions. And it's said, there must be at least one in each county, so on the islands the team and the team must be. So when they are founded, then when they are unable to do business, then these same counties will have to bear the cost. That's the story we've heard here that's actually the right to cover those losses from the means of alignment. Where does it say in the law? Where does the law say that? It doesn't say absolutely anywhere. It gives no right to units of local self-government, which imposes an obligation that they will not be able to fulfil. Who's gonna take it? Patients, who else, patients. So instead of one reform that should be offered here, there's nothing. And could you have gone a little bolder? Could you think reformically? It could have been. You could've wanted to know. For example. Article 6 speaks, which is complemented by an article 22, which says: "Every business capable person is responsible for the preservation and improvement of his health." And now the proposer wisely adds: "You should take action to this end," please this police dictionary should take action, which activities to take, says: "Avoid all risk factors that threaten life and health. Using intoxicating drugs, alcohol, tobacco products, risky sexual behavior, excessive weight." And what if a man does not take these activities and actions as you have written? What if he's still an example? consumes tobacco, or what if it has excessive weight? I've asked in these criminal provisions did you foresee a sentence such as to disrespect this supplement in the legal text? There's no punishment planned, there won't be a depth of people with too much weight. That's good, that's a good thing you haven't even laid down a criminal provision yet. But it is unusually wise for you to make a legal commitment that people should not have excessive weight. And if you'd thought a little deeper about it, you could've used people's risky behavior to improve health care and help him financially. What's the state doing with e.g. tobacco products? It prescribes excise duties and collects excise duties on these tobacco products as well as on alcohol. And where are those excises going? They're going to the state budget. There's no telling where they're being deployed afterwards in the state budget, whether they go for the military, for the police, for the salaries of civil servants or, you know, not known. So why didn't you come up with the idea of rerouting those excise duties as HZZO's income? At that time, any risky behavior means that each person is incomeming and that he bears the costs of his possible treatment for his risky behavior. Then it'll be clear to him why he's paying those excise fees. They don't just have to be excises. Look, when someone breaks traffic regulations, he acts riskyly. When he comes, when he causes a car accident, then when he gets hurt, where will he come? To the hospital. They'll be treated for state spending. So please do in your future, if it ever comes to it, reform, come up with a way of complementing HZZO financing from the risk of citizens' behavior. But don't write in the law that citizens are obliged to act risklessly, because it's just ridiculous. So it's all more or less reckless, inconsistencies, superficial. You are talking about homes of health on islands, so you now foresee a legal obligation on Brač, Cres, Hvar, Korčula, Krka, Losinj, Rab and Vis. And why not, for example. On Pag? What is Pag not a Croatian island? Why is there no obligation to have a home of health and in Pag? Pag has between 7 and 8 thousand inhabitants of the entire island. And watch out, there are 80,000 people on Pag during the tourist season. What makes sense is that you were just going to name some islands like this, some don't count. As for this work behind hours in private hospitals. Look, that's what we already had, that already existed. And there's no question about what's going to happen. That's quite clear because it's already happened. The patient will be here in the morning for a review, and then the doctor will say, "Yes, if I have to look at you, I have to do an X-ray or an X-ray or whatever you need, you can come in eight months in a row, but look, I'm doing you in a private practice of phenomenal, phenomenal afternoon can take pictures of you and it's not expensive, all thousand kunas. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's already happened. Look out, and it's gonna happen. And Minister Hebrang, when he was a minister, was advertised in such a private facility. He was advertised. They'll advertise again when you do this. It's going to be advertised again. And why don't you advertise yourself because you're legally enabling him right now? Now that the doctors had the right to supplemental work in their own institution, that was under control. Well, first of all, his boss watched him do his full-time work so he could work in the afternoon, and he had to pay the hospital's rent for the equipment, so the hospital made some money. No, now it's all aside. What would hospitals earn, so it is more important that private practice is income and that the legislator, the legislator, favors those, those of his colleagues who have done so and who have already done so. There's a colleague Hebrang here who says that's what patients' associations wanted. I have not seen this attitude of the patient association and let me, I deeply doubt that patients would want to relive what they were already experiencing, which is that they are simply being rerouted to private hospitals by morning in hospitals. Much more could be said about this legal proposal, time unfortunately does not allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38378	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I simply admire the knowledge of some of us who really know everything about everything, but let me correct one incorrect quote that you said when you said it was inconclusive to regulate the relationship between tourist service providers and health institutions. Why would that be inconclusive? It is absolutely feasible in every organised state, and for every tourist who comes to Croatia it is good for him to have secured health care without... in the place where he rests, where he will receive health care. On the other hand, I would say that it is completely unreasonable and incorrect and, among other things, ashamed of a gentleman who is very educated, young and has information and knowledge and very worthy of explaining this matter in this House. So I keep it absolutely incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38380	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, I would refer to two aspects proposed by these amendments. Certain changes relating to the complementary work of healthcare professionals who, under current law, were only able to carry out this additional work in a health institution where they are in a working relationship, the new proposal provides for the possibility for healthcare professionals to carry out additional work in other health institutions, companies carrying out health activities as well as in private practices. I would personally support this proposal if you were standing in other healthcare organisations, because I see no advantage for either the patient or the doctors in the current restriction that additional work can only be done in a health care facility where doctors are in a working relationship. However, my dear colleague, I would warn you of one thing that I don't know whether it was created by a stroke or created on purpose. In the light of the above, it is stated in the legal article 39 that it can be carried out in another health institution. However, according to the law, it can be done in another. So I don't understand that duality, I would ask you to answer that right after my debate, because I think it creates a difference in interpretation and it's very important. Thus, it explains on page 4 of paragraph 2 that "work in other health institutions" is written in an explanation, and in Article 39(2) says, "to perform using the space and medical technical equipment of another health institution". So the lack of a word: "i" completely changes this content and leads to some suspicion of your intentions. The rule may be, the controversy around this could be at the level of the principle of whether we as a country in transition with a number of unresolved problems, with a large number of pensioners, more than a weak material position, with a number of particularly sensitive groups, for example. defenders, with a low birth rate, a country of low standard and poor economic growth, are you taking care of social sensitivity we can practically allow privatisation, i.e. the market for health relations. But also in the criticisms of the IMF that could be observed these days, it is certainly also important to spend a lot of time in health care. if we add to this the fact that in particular we must adapt in health care to the European Union will certainly be one of the solutions to the additional work of healthcare professionals, as it has been decided in England, France or Denmark. Personally, I believe that allowing additional work to be done in other healthcare entities is as an extension, not only as a restriction of even more correct and correct, because the performance of additional work in the premises and with equipment that has been invested and set up by former social means, self-dependence or the separation of taxpayers today, however much the medical team has paid for the needs of additional work for the citizens of us, it remains untransparent and too expensive for doctors. In addition, the fact that this current legal possibility in Croatia has been used by a relatively small number of doctors is a fact. I'd also like to look back on another aspect. ... in the first years immediately after World War II, since it was not possible for the socialist state to organise quality health care, doctors were allowed to perform additional work and private practice with compulsory public health work. That was a few years ago, back in the '50s, back in the '60s. The implementation of private practice outside full-time is allowed almost in all European countries. The reasons for that are different. One of the reasons that led to this, for example. in France, it is a fact that private clinics provide doctors with far better and more tempting offers than can be provided in a public health care facility. This led to the spilling of quality and top-quality doctors into private clinics, which made public health a quality impoverishment. To prevent this, the state has opened up the possibility of additional work through private practice. Of course, our government is also making this decision driven by the dissatisfaction of doctors and by asking the union to raise wages. This is certainly one of the solutions that does not fall on the burden of the state budget and achieves the goal and buys certain social peace. It would certainly have been better if such a proposal had come as an elaborate long-term strategic definition because it would have been better thought out then, as regulations and rules would have already been adapted and what is most important would have guaranteed some long-term application. I would like to remind you that a similar legal provision existed in Croatia in the late 1990s. Truth be told, she was only referring to a privileged layer of professors and primarius with a doctorate while for the rest of the doctors it was only a crime, so they were doing the job in private practice in fear of losing their jobs in their clinics. And for the end of me, there's still a lot of open questions and ambiguities left here so you can read them so you can answer them later. How is this in line with the Labour Act? Is a doctor who works in public health when doing private practice in conflict of interest in the afternoon? What about the working hours of teachers, health professors, who besides high school have a working relationship with a health institution, and also work additionally in private practice, how many hours they actually do. How much time do they actually work? So far, the law has talked about their cumulative full-time hours of up to 40 hours a week, which I assume has been deliberately omitted by these changes. What about doctors who, with regular working hours of 40 hours, have to perform on duty, sometimes 4, 5, 6 times a month and more in the seasons. Which is proof of fulfillment of work obligations whether it's something the employer signs every day or something else. Why and where the power comes from to grant out-of-work work outside the office is decided by the minister. Is it some numberus Klaus or is the importance of the territorial distribution of those who work in private practice. And finally what remains in the morale sphere, which is a guarantee that doctors will not indirectly force patients to wait for hospital hospitals to switch to private practice and to provide patients with a sloppy service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38382	Thank you. Next is counterpart Tonci Tadic, please welcome Mr Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38383	Honored Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Secretary of State. This Law is a fruit of obvious knowledge that the health system of the Republic of Croatia requires systematic reform and greater respect for the rights of patients. This is known to everyone in this assembly, everyone in the Croatian public, however, the question is whether this law is really what we achieve. These amendments and additions to the health care law are unfavourable for most healthcare professionals who carry out their work responsibly and consciously as their regular activity and do not engage in additional private work. These changes to the Law are unfavourable for those doctors who consciously do their job in their hospital, in their home of health, and do not engage in additional private work. Instead of ensuring decent salaries for such healthcare professionals, they are offered the possibility of additional earnings by work as so-called. bussiness doctor and it is really weird and unacceptable for us. This possibility of additional work that will in practice result from conflict of interest will really exist for only one small part of the doctor who is well materially standing anyway. We believe that the examples that have been drawn from the Western states are not adequate and that it would be far better if those examples from those countries that have a health system were compatible with ours so that we can compare. This is how from these examples that are given here, by the way of funding, by the quality of the service provided, by the status and design properties of the health system, you cannot get the right comparisons and discuss this in the right way. There is a question of the position of other public service employees or public institutions. Therefore, if doctors are allowed to supplement their income in public rooms outside of working hours in their spare time, why not, for example, the staff of the pension institution handle pension issues and private after working hours in the same space, why not have a teacher at a school outside of working hours in that same public space to hold instructions or repair assessments and so on. Of course, it's like a concept of meaninglessness, but it just shows what nonsense the health system has been led to with these amendments to the law. The provisions relating to the strike in this law are tightened, the right to strike by a doctor is limited, so the message this Law sends is the following: If you want to earn more money at the expense of citizens, after working hours in public spaces and withdraw money from them, but you must not strike to earn money from the state. That's the message this law gives. So this is neither for the benefit of citizens nor for the benefit of healthcare professionals. I also find it extremely unnecessary and in a completely wrong way to call on the European Social Charter to justify tightening the strike provisions. The European Social Charter is, therefore, the European Social Charter, Article 5 on the right to organise and Article 6 on the right to collective bargaining, which requires Member States to limit as little as possible the right to strike and, in particular, to strike public services. I remind you that by 30 June of this year, the Republic of Croatia must submit the first report on the respect of the European Social Charter and this report will be beautifully guaranteed with such a law, in which you restrict the right to strike public service employees, so in this case the doctor. We believe that this is a failure, that this approach to the law regarding strike and additional work of a doctor has been placed entirely wrong. The only thing that I can support here in this bill is the final establishment of a health home on some islands, I personally opposed and for years led my personal conflict with ministers who were on the duty of the Minister of Health against the concept that advocated the abolition of health homes on islands. I believe that the homes of health on the islands are necessary and that they cannot be compensated for any ambulance ships. One of the county health secretary's proposals were to set up an ambulance ship that would probably be like a boat on... in Africa roads from Budjumbura to Kigoma with interstate stations in Mpala and Nunda. Then there would be some natives on the islands waiting for a ship with doctors, so if your ulcer or appendix were to break on Hvar and your brother's boat was at Mljet, wait nice until the ship arrived, so whoever survived. It doesn't work that way and it's crystal clear that it can't go that way. What is a happy environment for us as Croatia is that on the islands there are already doctors who are willing to live on islands, there are already specialists living on islands and who only expect this country to allow them to practice their own specialist practice on islands. And what Croatia needs to do is to make sure that we get money from the European funds to set up an Inter-Eastern Health Center, so that either patients, or specialists travel from island to island. And this can be done I believe in the future Adriatic region that such money is being secured from the European Union funds, i.e. that already some of the funds are trying to get from the World Bank or the World Health Organisation. All this together, however, does not solve a key problem and this is a health problem in the Adriatic season. I'm going to say something that's a lot of people when I said it two years ago was a shock, but the fact is, it's a sad fact, that many who fly on our shores, especially on islands, are flying at their own risk. If anything happens to them in any of the gulfed bays they're finished, none of them can come to them, we're just getting fast lifeboats now, you can count the helicopters on the fingers of one hand, and when you need them most often they're gone. So much for the ambulance. I wonder if this emergency assistance that several ministers have been trying to do so far will be centralized at the county level and the emergency assistance on Brac and Hvar is being directed from Split, which is completely pointless instead of focusing on the island itself, whether Mr. Secretary of State establishing an island health home will include the establishment of a local emergency administration. It's equally important, and it's especially important that this ambulance on the islands doesn't have only one vehicle but that there are more because if that ambulance goes to Hvar and there's also an accident in Jelsa, they don't stand a chance. So that's what this is about. Two years ago, on behalf of HSP, I suggested that one kuna be allocated at night from the residence tax for the needs of increased health care during the season. On the island, it's roughly, me and my friends from former island health homes, that it's about 400,000 kuna. So these are the funds that can be found from the tourism community's income, from the donations of hotel houses and, of course, the tourist tax itself. For this money, we must be able to provide our tourists with adequate health care. There is no worse rainfall for Croatian tourism and Croatia as a country and tourist destination than when a stranger as a patient experience a disastrously poor health service in Croatia. This is most often not happening but let it happen a few times it will have very negative repercusions in the Republic of Croatia and for our tourism. Thus, quality healthcare with motivated doctors, with air-conditioned hospitals, with good medical equipment, with specialists on islands is equally important for Croatia's tourist images as a tourist country, as well as hotels, ferry, planes, airports and arranged highways. Let's not forget that. And it's only about one kuna at a time of night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38384	I thank Representative Tadic. Replication to this presentation, Mr. Representative Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38385	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Tadic, I am really surprised why it would be unacceptable to allow a respected doctor, a respected professor to work outside of working hours and charge taxes and why it would be unacceptable for those who have money and want a quick service to pay for it. Isn't it a bigger problem than that in this country that many and all of this, I repeat, happens out of business time? Isn't it a bigger problem in this country that many people do their job in a way that they don't actually do it during working hours, and would it be a guarantee that if we don't allow doctors to do their job in the best possible way within the working time limits and for everyone's benefit? On the other hand, when you speak I completely understand you, you are a man from the sea and you stand for the sea or for people at sea and for tourism, etc. But doesn't this law just make it possible for every tourist who comes to the Croatian coast to find his hoteler or someone who offers him a boarding house to find another star more and that's secure health care. And this is exactly the law that offers the possibility of it being secured. So I'm calling again and again. So if we're unhappy with this solution then let's do the other one better. But let's not reject this bill. This is one attempt to just warn it, to just correct the system's faults as it has been so far. I fully understand that an Austrian needs to know exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38386	Mr. Bagaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38388	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Mr. Zastavnik Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38389	So, as far as the proposals are concerned, I made my proposal two years ago. Of course he hasn't been reacted to. So much for suggestions. You know what the mechanism in Parliament is that you must have the most brilliant proposal if the ruling majority does not accept it as if you did not give it. As far as work goes, the problem is whether it's me at the Ruger or the doctor at the hospital. If it does its private business with public equipment outside of working hours it must be separately regulated and separately paid. It's the Labour Act. You understand? The labour law prohibits doing its private job by competing with its own company. That's a planetary ban. And that's all I'm asking myself is whether we're getting into a problem that we weren't even aware of yet or not the ones who wrote it were aware of. I'm not defending a man from doing private practice but I'm asking a question of legal regulation and asking a question of possible conflict of interest. And if they're allowed to do that, then we can let the rest of them do it. I think the Secretary of State has written down our entire debate and that this will make a more quality bill in the second reading. If we don't, we'll be making amendments and I guess we'll meet for some quality solution. But I repeat again, as far as health care is concerned in the season. Croatia is very sensitive to this issue. Every epidemic in the season, every ill-treated case of a patient in the season is catastrophic for our image in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38390	I thank Mr. Tadic. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Antun Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38391	Allow me to answer the question of distinguished MPs who were put directly. So it's true, and I checked again. It can be considered an exact article in 39, meaning the bill's proposal without that "i". What's the point? The intention was just to enable let's say in this way that top experts can work in other institutions. Not just in private practice. What is listed today throughout this discussion is work in private practice, something that has become obviously a red cloth. At this point, about five hundred doctors are working in their own facilities in private practice. According to some records, the complaint is exclusively on literally a few doctors. Whether because of this system means a couple of doctors that should be dealt with by other institutions should destroy the entire institution of the system of complementar work, that's the question I'm leaving here in front of you. But I repeat, you should see other aspects of the doctor's supplemental work, which I will look back on in the final word. That would be for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38392	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Mr. Lesar. Here you go, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38393	Mr. Secretary of State, the interpretation of the text of the law and the articles of the law are not identical and you have now given a third interpretation at this time. As explained in the law, this proposal allows for work outside of working hours and in other health institutions in the text of the law says "in other health institutions". Which is exactly and what's wrong, decidatedly say please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38394	Here you go. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38395	So, I'll say it again, I've decoded the answer. There's a mistake with this "I". So it's not an exact explanation, it's an accurate article, a proposal for article 39 without it, meaning the ally "i".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38396	I thank you, next in line for the debate, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38397	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. By considering the bill of law, man is always trying to give himself an answer which are the reasons for the amendment and supplementation proposal. In that dilemma I was in, I always asked if it was more important here to discuss amendments to the strike law or whether it was a matter of further decentralisation and change in the decentralisation part of health. And I did estimate that at this point the proposal's wish was to regulate the issue of strike. I estimate that when we observe Croatia in 2005 I don't think we need it by law regulation of the strike at this time. And that's why the proposer should really give up on defining the way the strike, the possibility of strike. I must say that I have remained a little surprised by the reasons of the promoters, but also by the debates, because we are talking about dealing with some of the doctors' rights to a 10% increase we have solved this problem so there will be no more strike. It turns out that we're only writing this law for the next year and we don't realize that it's a long-term law and that who knows what's going to be in collective bargaining in the next year, two, three, or four because we're probably writing a law for a long, far longer period of years. Therefore, if we estimate that the strike was necessary yesterday then we must be aware that tomorrow is necessary and that in some way unnecessary meeting of legislators to regulate these provisions and to leave this freedom, I would say, with the negotiating capabilities of the government and the union to try to find the right way and not to harm the patient. And I think the past she has shown has, in some ways, shown that she is trying to protect the interest of the patient both by the government and by the doctor and at the same time to give rights to dissatisfied associations to citizens, to trade unions to show this their dissatisfaction. And I would say, far less of a strike problem would be if political parties were actively not involved in the leadership and suggestions that were reportedly present. And that's where I think the public is also the one that's going to affect every organised form of strike. which does not exist, which has no basis in the demands of workers on their rights in part of the negotiations with employers. [[Intruder: My colleagues and colleagues I ask you only a little.]] That's why I think that really, as legislators, we should reconsider once more, give up these provisions because I don't think we really need them and leave the executive power, the possibility, I'd say the ability to find its solutions in the negotiations. And now I would still like to say a few words and decentralisation, I have to say that philosophy which was four years ago or a year and a half ago constantly returning to the past is something better, yesterday was nothing, just proof of the nobility of the promoter to try to find a better explanation for the changes we have. And just in the absence of arguments, we constantly use some comparisons without, at the same time, providing quality documents that will try to draw up practice, not politics, not decisions, not the rule of some parties, but try to draw out a practice that I would say document or background, the base on which we will make decisions about some changes. And if less political views, less, I would say political behaviors would put into arguments and far more arguments, our own debate would be far easier and not try to prove to each other who was more successful or unsuccessful. And that's what I'd say is one of the big minuses and this proposal where we really don't know a purely real state where the health problem is, when we're talking about me, I'd say the lower one, so hospitals, health homes, hospitals, so we're talking about that state health care, clinical hospital centers. Perhaps, enough to mention Article 2 where he is trying especially to highlight one annoying I would say item which is that founders must cover the loss. I'm asking if we need it and if we're aware of how badly it's a legal proposal because it's purely tantology. For the reason that the Law on Institutions defines that the loss must be covered by the founders in the total amount and that the creditors of the institution are never threatened because the founder pays off every kuna of dubiosis, debt, minus. But we have to wonder why this practice of founders is not in daily implementation. Why does the founder think the director needs to be appointed and not thinks he should be responsible for financial delinquents? Let's try to ask ourselves, we're not going to settle it with laws, we need to resolve behavioral change, we need stronger communication, we need to try to make clear and unequivocally clear who this irresponsible founder is, and we need to try to point out, and I would say anomalies in our conduct in implementation, not by pushing some provisions that have really no purpose whatsoever. Why? Because they've already been written in basic laws. At the same time what's happening to us? At the same time, we do not want to enter a clean analysis of the financial situation where we need to determine whether the power of regional self-government is so much that they can bear the burden of some regulation in healthcare that defines the level of health care. And if we did an analysis here and didn't try to tell you we did this yesterday, you're doing this today. At that point, we'll see that there's not enough resources to maintain a certain level. And yet, if there were, I would also say the irresponsible behavior of the founders and the people they set up to run administrative functions, that's true, but there is a clear fact that we don't have enough resources, we don't have and that we should always talk about redistribution and that we believe that the quality of the law would be far, far better and there wouldn't be any of these dilemmas and disassociation between us. Unfortunately, we don't have that political data. And part of us that works for the executive government knows clearly that during the period before 2000 and after 2000 there were dubiosis, in which I would say health expenditures that were at levels below the state, because there was simply not enough funding. It's also the biggest problem when in the context of the law we point out two things and it's incompetent directors, bad directors, so basically the law we adapt not to development but to the sanctions of those who are unsuccessful. We also estimate that many units cannot and we try to adapt the law to one of the slowest cars in one composition because we are afraid that we will have some obstacles if we go a little more modern and quality way of solving health. And if we approach from the point of view that healthcare should still be a developmental function of Croatia, that we have an enormous fit of quality that can certainly heal not only Croatian citizens, but many, many I would say to the citizens of Europe, that moment the bill itself would be simpler and easier. It would enable us to form a health care system which, apart from the obligation of the standard of satisfaction and the need of Croatian citizens, will also offer a service that can be commercial. This law won't make it possible. And that's what part of us doesn't think that the changes proposed are of any quality so that we can accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38398	I would like to thank Agent Linic. Next is the debate Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38399	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Lesar has presented a whole series of reasons why the HNS Club, the PGS, will not support the amendment and addition of the law in the form that we have obtained. He also cited concrete reasons why we will not support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. I would not repeat what he said and what much of you have already mentioned in the previous part of the debate, but I am obliged as a representative from the 8th constituency here to say and convey everything that my citizens, the islanders first and foremost order to the Croatian Parliament. I've also spoken to some of the local self-government people as well as the county self-government, and I think I'm obliged to present their thoughts right now. First of all, all agree that the islanders need to be given more, should be helped in various areas of life and also in the area of health. However, what they are somewhat disappointed about is that they heard on the radio this morning and on the radio that the criterion is to obtain a home of health of 10 thousand and more inhabitants. They pray that in fact there must be made and that there should be a big, big turn there, that these criteria must be much more complex and much more correct, not that by correcting the false allegations through our islanders we argue which island has and which there are no 10,000 inhabitants because you all know colleagues and colleagues that Cres, Vis and other islands do not have 3,000 inhabitants in December. But that's why this proposal should have said that these islands have 5 and 10 times more inhabitants in the summer and that these specific reasons are certainly the basis for thinking in the direction that the law goes. Furthermore, there are winter days when our islands are cut off, when it is also necessary to think about how to clearly overcome these specific troubles of our islanders. There's also demographic policy. Through some positive policy and certain advantages to be given to islands and islanders, surely these are the reasons that hold water, which are worth today, which will be worth two years or five years from now. And not with every change of power that we then call for numbers and some incorrect indicators to be the reason that we made unnecessary decisions. Secondly, the existing law clearly states that health homes are founding and ownership rights of health homes in the counties. This bill certainly suggests that these very island health homes that we are going to propose, that their founding rights will be transferred to local self-government units. In a situation where we know that skirt and scissors are in the hands of state institutions, HZZO, first of all, but also of the ministry. That the founding rights in the counties and tomorrow that the founding rights of some health homes in units of local self-government on islands are a matter of coordination is a very serious issue, a very serious issue we haven't discussed much, where no one has said anything practically. And today, at least we know that we can go to the Head of Health for the County, to the Head of Health, and make certain remarks, objections, etc. Tomorrow in my county, one part of the work will be carried out by these gentlemen, if the founding rights are transferred to Losinj, to Cres, to Rab, and Krk is a special case, Krk is a special case because on the island of Krk we have 7 units of local self-government and the question is whether this home of health will function as the city of Krk or all units of local self-government on the island of Krk. I'm also asking you to make it clear for the citizens of the islands that we know what's waiting for us tomorrow. If it continues to insist on this Bill proposal and if most of them clearly support this text after the first reading on Friday and if we are already going to the next session before the summer, then you must consider and solve another problem. And this is the three-month deadline within which you propose that the counties make decisions on the establishment of island health homes, because then it may happen that they are established somewhere in the autumn by law and that there remains an air-empty space for financing, because you yourself have stated that the funds are foreseen for health homes on islands as from the beginning of 2006 and beyond for the work of administration, administrative councils, etc., etc. Furthermore, many citizens in the Primorje-Gorski County and many people within the health profession when it comes to additional work that suggested solutions are really not the best. It is understood that intensities, it is understood that something is wanted, however, why these solutions are considered by my fellow citizens are not the best, and so are my health colleagues. It is, however, difficult or even impossible to prevent competition from its own institution if the issue of supplementary work is resolved in this way. Almost impossible. In fact, it's a direct competition to your own institution. Here we heard during this morning's debate that the market requires such behaviour that an expert can go to another company in the afternoon and provide his services. Even some examples are mentioned. I tell you, however, that this may be acceptable in some early stage of the competition, some sort of embryonic phase. In one developed phase or system, that is not possible. No one from Sony will allow one of their employees to go to Nokia this afternoon to work and sell their knowledge, skills and abilities. No one. If the issue of the competition is correctly raised then those same rules, the sophisticated rules must also apply to health care. If my institution sent me to specialization, gave me professional training, sent me to congresses, symposias, seminars, and I sell my knowledge at another institution this afternoon. It's all just not correct. It's all I couldn't say if it wasn't a competition, it was a direct competition with my own institution. We've heard countless models. In France, it seems to me that the model is quite clear and relatively correct. There they go so far as to prevent the going of the highest quality staff and precisely that competition, the professor there may have several beds in the department of the state hospital where his private patients are so as not to accidentally go to another institution and sell there and there clearly have just competed with his institution already vice versa. Everything seems to keep that knowledge inside the same house. The correctness of the proposal, which wants to transfer the full financial responsibility to the work of the county regarding the functioning of the county institutions when we know, is also said by counterpart Lesar that both skirt and scissors are in state institutions. It decides on the number of beds, the price of services, all possible parameters, and the county should answer. This is certainly not possible under these conditions, it can absolutely not be realised. Finally, colleagues and colleagues I have already said this countless times, it would be nice to have our benches shown to those to whom changes and additions of these laws are concerned. Where are our views of Cres, Lošinj, Primorje-Gorski County and others? It would be nice to see what they think. I wouldn't answer if they said they agree with that text, if it were an ideal model, if that's what they're looking for. Then I'm satisfied. I am such a mediator between two systems and I want to make it clear to my citizens that I can make it happen this way. Here, I also agree with those colleagues who said that maybe we should have gone in some other way to this debate, that we might have done one analysis first, a quality analysis of the health situation in those areas, and that then we came to the conclusion that we should reform if we could call this a mini reform, a system in this way. Thank you very much, because I see this red light has turned on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38400	I thank Mr. Doric's representative. I'm asking you to pay attention to what people are saying and to quiet down a bit, because it's really hard to follow what's going on behind the pay phone. Next is Vice President of the House, Mr. Representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38401	Honored vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, I didn't really mean to participate in this debate, but I am invited to some debates, and I really want to say here as a doctor that I am always and almost always unhappy when health care wants to be used for daily policy purposes, and on the basis of one, it would say a difficult state in the health system to collect some cheap political points. If that were indeed so, I can prove by example that in the time of the former coalition government a strike was organised in health care institutions, and even when many expected that in some strong HDZ fortification in Ličko-Senj County, this strike of doctors and healthcare professionals would be very proportionate, to surprise some, and in favour of my finding that I was unhappy when health care is used in the daily political purposes in my county in the homes of Ličko-Senj County, in the county hospital in Gospić there was no strike because, as Mr Linic said also mentioning the doctor's strike, one of those who believes that a real strike in the health sector should not solve the problems that have been accumulated entirely in the health system. However, as far as the law and the new amendment to this law are concerned, I will say only a few words in favour of the possibility, that is, the need to amend this law. I was one of the principals who met with what's-his-name. decentralisation in the health system. I was one of the directors who went to Minister Stavinić, who went to the minister from Dubrovnik,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38402	Vlachushic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38403	Vlachushic, yes. Minister Vlahusic, pointing to some problems that the so-called decentralisation brought in. So in one understandable dictionary of those who are not in the health system, we have been told by this decentralisation to the directors of health institutions in such a situation that we have received certain funds from the county budget or the city budget or the state budget, and we have had to simply direct them where the law allowed them. In other words we say I remember in my hospital that I begged the minister that this law is so inconclusive and so illogical that we say that you have a vehicle 10 years old and you can change all four tires on it, you can change the machine, you can change the sheet, but you can't by that law, it makes it impossible for you to buy a new sanity vehicle. So that's one illogicality. Or you can arrange a full operating room, put it in marble, in gold plates, but you can't buy an anesthesiological device that's 30 years old. Even at the address of some of the then government who have acknowledged the indifference of this law and who have told us not only to me but also to other health care directors to break the law, to take a new sanity vehicle, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have the understanding of these moves and will not insist on any revisions of the operations of hospitals, those hospitals that have used these decentralised funds to tell us about the restoration of the Sanitian, fleet. So this is one of the illogicalities and the existing law that speaks in many ways and that this existing law is very much subject to change, i.e. it is necessary to make certain changes in this law. Of course, someone here spoke today and why not decentralised funds should also be used to resuscitate certain health institutions, homes of health or county hospitals if we are carrying out the right decentralisation then we must allow both the heads of the county and the city and the congregations to distribute them, i.e. to direct those funds there really where people who run health institutions, who run the counties, who run the cities, really think that these funds could contribute and increase the level of health care in certain areas and availability and the same institution to those who need it most. In that law there was also talk that all the county, all the health homes in the county, in my county were four homes of health and we did not agree to the condition of the then minister that the financing of certain health homes would be abolished unless the County Assembly made such a decision. We did not accept the decision that four homes of health in the area of Ličko-Senj County joined together, i.e. to remove and to create a county home of health because we held and this is also in this new law a proposal, that the headship of Ličko-Senj County can see the situation of the largest county where we are in the composition of the county and the islands and the coast and that indeed there would be an excess of four home health in the area of Ličko-Senj County, but there would not be too many two home health areas, one for that continental part, and of course one for this island part, because part of the island of Pag, Novalja and half of the island of Pag belongs to the Ličko-Senj County and we also made such a decision at the headship of Ličko-Senj County. At the time, I was the mayor of Lika-Sen County. Of course, there is no colleague Mršić, but of course I agree with part of his debate where, and through this I will answer, today there is mentioned Mrs. Antunovic's hospital and Mrs. Antunovic. A colleague Mršić said that, of course, County can't make equal payments with 60 thousand residents to a health fund like some of the counties that have 200, 300,000 inhabitants. But we also believe that the good sensitivity of this government is to the area of special state concern. I have always stressed, and now I stress, we, when I talk about the Gospić hospital I consider in this section both the Knin and the Vukovar and the Vinkovar hospital, the hospitals that deal with the same difficulties as the hospitals in Gospić but must be placed in a "equal" position in order, through 10 years of proper investment in both equipment and infrastructure and mainly in the chamber, and my hospital Vukovar and Kninska for 10 years, to be not only in the rank of providing health care but also in the same conditions as the General Hospital of the Holy Spirit here in Zagreb. At this point, putting St. Spirit's Hospital in Zagreb and Gospić hospital in the same conditions of business would mean putting the key in the lock of the hospital in Knin, Vukovar, Gospić, Gospić, or in such areas, but I will note it is not, again I do not want to politicize and I do not want to put it in daily political purposes, but in the last two years we are in Gospić hospital, allow me to have such a term, take advantage of this government's sensitivity to areas of special state concern, and when Mrs. Antunović said that the Gospić Hospital has no financial difficulties, there is, there is, there is the same as all the other hospitals and she is not put into some privileged position that the hospital in Knin has financial problems, my "my" hospital has no financial problems, there are no financial problems that we are struggling with in these two years, but we do not forget what Professor Hebrang said in 91. We remain with three doctors, with the three, 95, and we are well-organized for health care. In 96 we had 1,000 patients annually, at the annual level in my hospital and interesting in 2002 during the former coalition government in an anonymous survey Gospićka hospital was rated as the best hospital in the field of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why it bothers me, but absolutely when every time or County of Lika-Senjska, which is, and you'll admit it to me once more European than some others, but I guess we have this... past, so some of us are different, so in 2002 we were at the time of the coalition government in an anonymous survey that the Ministry of Medicine conducted as the best, not one of the best but the best hospitals, but according to what is often important in the hospital when you come in, in terms of medical staff, nurses, doctors, medical technicians to patients. And today in 2004, we took advantage of this government's sensitivity to the area of special state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38404	Comrade Milinović, please to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38405	Is it over yet? One more second, let me just say two things. I agree with those who say the director of health care institutions don't have and should not be one of the conditions for having scientific and teaching knowledge and I will tell you again how much I'm telling the truth. I have become president of KBC Rijeka's Board of Directors and many, know Mr. Linic, have been raised on their feet, have not been removed director and I have changed it in the Statute of the KBC Rijeka and I also believe that one successful health manager was he an economist or a lawyer or a doctor can be equally successful if he does not manage a health care institution more successfully than those who have a scientific and teaching term and a final sentence. I consider myself invited and here to say not only that respected professors can have that possibility but we must prevent this supplemental work from generating waiting lists, which is very common.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38406	Thank you very much, colleague Milinović. We're going to the final five minutes at the clubs. The first is the club of the HNS PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38407	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, in this final presentation, I will give a second reason why we cannot and must not support this Bill proposal, concerns Article 39 of the proposed amendments and additions which amends the existing Article 158, which regulates the right of a healthcare professional who works in a public health institution to additional work in another public institution, as we have now heard after the amendment of documents, either in private or in private. It's practically about sort of legalizing the fuck and nothing else. This means that after 40 hours of work in a public institution where wages are paid, you can work in another public institution and 8 hours a week. In space and on equipment owned by that same public institution or private institution, and when it comes to public institutions, these are the same general hospitals whose losses are taken over by counties under this Bill proposal and have to be rehabilitated. Without any kuna payment fee for the use of space and without one kuna fee for the use of equipment. And ultimately, a permit or consent for such types of supplementary work is given by the minister. Therefore, the founder of that medical institution whose equipment is to be operated and the additional costs of the same institution are not asked. Wouldn't it make more sense that instead of the minister of consent, the owner, or founder, would have to cover the losses, which would be partly created for that. In an explanation, however, the Proposer calls for the experiences of Great Britain, France and Denmark, but they forgot that in Britain one of the conditions to prevent conflict of interest in the quality of services, the other must not be at the expense of patients’ interests, so there must be no waiting list, that in France one who works in equipment and in the area of a public institution must pay compensation to that public institution, and in Denmark, this limit is to 3 hours a week, 500 thousand kuna per year with payment of compensation. In this bill of law, none of these 3, 5, 6 brake or fuse criteria were envisaged, so it was just necessary to say that the Danes also have, but this positive Danish experience in terms of the insurance of the owner has not been passed on to our bill. Whoever these doctors are, they've used them a lot and how many they are. Most of the time, it's about teachers who already work in one workplace and teach work 40 hours in a public institution, and now they can still work 8 hours at a private or another public institution. At the same time on waiting lists, insurance companies are waiting for ultrasound, CT, MR, ECG, RTG, cardiology, surgery 2, 3, 6 months. And this Parliament has passed the Labour Act, whose article of 99th prescribed a ban on a game employed by an employer, if it is done by an illegal employer, has the right to make profits or profits, and we have even given private employers the right to offer the employee a no-game contract and two years after the end of work with the same employer. Then, in the same state, we do not allow additional work by top informers, university teachers, researchers at institutes, as well as civil servants who could probably use the same right, and in one case we allow it to be done. This is not in the interest of patients, there will be no waiting lists, there will be no quality of service higher if there is a reason why there are citizens who can pay for it and want to pay for this service, then let's leave it at that public institution where the expert is employed. Do not move that citizens' willingness to make their money take care of their health and move to private registers and budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38408	I thank my colleague Lesar. Last debate on the name of the club, on behalf of the HSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38409	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Party of Retirement has considered with special attention the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. The general conclusion is that this is one and only one in a series of attempts to fix or avoid something in the health care system without will and desire to establish a sustainable health care system, efficient and functional and accessible to any Croatian citizen regardless of social status and based on a general political consensus. A few solutions of less importance for the functioning of the health care system could support the establishment of health homes even though the villains might freely ask and why we abolished them. Of course, as with the suspension, clear criteria are lacking. We believe that the cosmetic amendment of Article 9 of the applicable law in terms of determining the county and the cities to plan funds to cover losses for institutions for which the founders are not going to change anything significantly in relation to today's situation and that further losers will be losers and the only solution is the actual decentralisation of funds in the health care system and thus responsibility for the development and success of the operations of health institutions. The provisions on the doctor’s additional work are not clearly defined by the public-private health care system in part of the obligations and responsibilities, and there is a particular lack of justification for the objective it seeks to achieve. Such a formulation leaves too much doubt whether the proposed model legalises work in conflict of interest or whether it is a compensation for the prohibition of the right to strike. Or health care will now be more quality and hasty for those who can pay for healthcare and those who have long waited for a health care service will continue to wait for a long time. We believe that the amendments to Article 20 are good in the sense that the saying determines who is carrying out the costs of specific health care but not enough because in practice specific health care has been implemented exclusively under the Rules on jobs with special working conditions which have not been revised for years and in the meantime, the list of adverseities and hazards in workplaces has increased multiplely as has changed the way in which the list of professional diseases in the world itself and in Croatia. It is a sad fact that at this point, the worker must cover the health service of establishing a professional disease or damage to health rather than employers for whom the worker has worked and has contributed to the employer's business success by jeopardising his health. As regards the proposed provisions on the restriction of the right to strike, the Croatian Party considers them completely unnecessary and harmful to the development of the social partnership and social dialogue in Croatia. It is a step back from the achieved civilizational level of Croatian society in the communication of social partners. The Croatian Parliament has no right or need to interfere in processes that produce the effects of higher rights and obligations and apply directly and above the law. For reasons of obvious ambitions, that in an inappropriate manner and without need, they reduce human rights as well as because of arbitrary comments of conventions and the provision of expert opinions without stating the source of data, as well as the lack of a declaration of non-compliance of this bill with the legislation of the European Union, in particular regarding the provisions on the complementary work of the doctor and the strike of the Croatian party of pensioners cannot give a vote for this law and it depends on how much change will be introduced into this proposal and a new assessment of the Croatian Party of pensioners will depend on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38410	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38411	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Let me finally, on behalf of the promoter, turn one more time and try to make some things clear at the end of the day's debate. In fact, from this debate today, the whole day that we listen to what I think is primarily a doctor's clinic and then the State Secretary in charge of health becomes more and more clear that there is a huge misunderstanding and about the functioning of the health system and about the overall state of the field. In the very introduction of the proposal, we pointed out on purpose that the proposer's intention is to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act exclusively to improve the works of the law due to rationalisation and better access to citizens' health protection. But also lead to a situation where there are less stressful conditions for managing health institutions and that we expect the following effects. In the decentralisation process that has been discussed very much today, it has been back several years in the first decentralisation of investment funds. The time has now come to take the next step and to allow the decentralised resources to work and the basic business of health institutions and I see no reason why there is so much concern that it could now happen to collapse the system at the level of local and regional self-government just because it is the reverse proposal that this solution will enable what has just been mentioned by the two MPs, which is that they use decentralised funds in a way that completes the losses in health care and that this is done legally and not on a proposal to do so against the law. Also, we all agree that rationalization is needed. Apparently, the reports that have already been presented have not been found on fertile soil since the last year and a half since the arrival of this government have shown in many institutions in Croatia that rationalisation can be achieved within these, let us call the limit, perhaps better said the budget of health institutions and that only a few health institutions that cannot do so, whether because of lack of funds or because of incompetent administration it is precisely a matter of the governing council of such an institution to establish and then to undertake both the administrative council and directors of financial responsibility and for the mandatory notification of the founders, whether it is a matter of the clinical institutions of the state or at the local level to be able to access the recovery of that part in a timely manner. I personally find it a little regrettable that regular work outside of work is used all the time through a way to show up medical profession as something that enables this law to be criminal, nepotism. I don't know what kind of words you'd put there. In health care for now between health institutions, it may be ten, fifteen years from now, but there is no competition because the needs of health care and health institutions are always in a state of lack of capacity which proves daily waiting lists, waiting lists that have been discussed on several occasions. And it's not true that the doctor's supplemental work doesn't affect waiting lists. It affects very much because all those patients who have done the examination, search, procedure or anything else in the supplemental work of these doctors are no longer on the waiting lists of medical institutions, so they are being reduced. That there are certain malformations, that there are some deviations, there must be but there are government institutions for that. And it's not true that there's no way to control it. The method was established a year and a half ago. The arrival of this government, Mr. Hebrang, introduced daily monitoring of the work of doctors in health institutions and is reported every month and is daily being conducted in a medical facility how much the doctor has done, how many procedures he has done. Therefore, there is no longer any monitoring of the activity of the patient and the patient than that of the patient. And right now, the director of the health care facility will be the first to agree on our proposal whether a doctor can or can not go to additional work. This agreement would also require the consent of the chamber and the profession to say whether it considers it necessary for the doctor to work additionally or not, and afterwards, the minister will sign or not sign, refuse to register according to the health care institution network whether someone can go to the supplemental work or not. I agree that all manipulations should be prevented but I am reading from this proposal and the other situation. The situation that a doctor, a specialist, an intern from the Clinical Hospital Centre Split may have an additional infirmary, for example, on Saturdays from 8 o'clock on Hvar, on Brac. That's what you can do. I don't know how familiar you are with the fact that Croatia currently has 570 surgeons of which there are only 120 professorial or docent titles, all the doctors of medicine remain. To this number of inhabitants comes out that practically one surgeon goes to 11,000 inhabitants. Gentlemen, where is this number of doctors who can also work privately without medical institutions leaving without a doctor. And it is this French model that has been heard more than once today that has prevented top experts from going to private institutions to resolve material status than to allow them to do their work regularly in a health institution. The special question was always about the conditions for directors. I don't think the article of the law has been read well, namely, it's not about the directors of all health institutions, it's only about clinical institutions, it's about clinics, so it's about health care institutions and health institutions. And it's not said that the director must be, not necessarily, but then he must be his deputy, and then the director should be an economist, a biologist, a manager, whatever he wants, but surely in such a facility as clinical hospitals, such as clinics and clinical hospitals, he needs to take great care of the scientific and teaching activity that happens regularly in these institutions. Medical school, dental school, pharmaceutical school cannot take place, he only has half the teaching institution inside the university, the rest of the teaching activities take place precisely in these institutions why they are called clinics and clinical institutions. I could explain a lot, given that this is a first reading, I believe that during today's day, a lot of constructive proposals have been made that the government will absolutely consider and prepare for the next procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38412	Thank you, I thank the Secretary of State. Now we've closed the debate. We're moving on to second point. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38413	Okay. Dear Mr. Vice President, it is fortunate that this is the first reading and it is not that the Secretary of State does not understand but simply does not want to accept the fact that our counties...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38414	What, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38415	Full text.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38416	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can correct an incorrect quote!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38417	It's not that I don't understand, but I don't want to accept the fact that the county has a significantly smaller budget than the general hospital budgets and that's actually the point. The County of Istria has a budget of 200 million kuna, the General Hospital in Pula over 200 million kuna. And now how to resolve those health losses with the budgets of our counties. It's just not possible. So, how did the government... [[You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38418	You cannot, under the Institute of Correction of an Inaccurate Allegation, under Article 214. No, Your Honor, I'm asking you to sit down. Thank you, thank you! I hope this concludes the debate on this agenda point. We're moving on, thanks to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38419	They should vote first on a decision requiring a two-thirds majority for those military exercises. [[Home is not saved.]] I ask you who are outside the hall to come as soon as possible to have the necessary majority. Please engage to determine the quorum. Let's get an I.D. on him, he's 90 and something, but it looks like there's more, so give me more of those who aren't. There are 97 MPs, and we still don't have the quorum needed for that decision, so we're going to move on to another one, and I'm asking those representatives who are available and curious to appear. Then let's go to the vote of other things. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Health Care Supplements, first reading, Bill No 300. The debate is concluded, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the health care law, any objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 67 for, 7 abstentions, 21 against, the majority accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38420	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 299; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law. What is it? Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate... [[Well, Mr. President.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38421	Well, Mr. President, now it's up to the motion for a decision to hold military exercises, isn't it? President Shakespeare...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38422	I didn't give it to you, I didn't let you talk!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38423	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38424	Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38425	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Representatives and Mr. Representatives. Let me, in a few words, explain these amendments and the additions to the Charter of Fundamental Education. First of all, they are technical changes for us that enable us to function effectively in the primary school education system because the recent amendments to the 2001 Law failed to resolve effectively a number of issues related to how teachers, professional associates and other primary school workers were hired as well as the conditions for teachers, professional school associates and school secretaries as well as the management of primary school. Let's say the appointment and resolution of the principal of the primary school according to the previous provisions of the principal appointed and resolved the resolute minister, so before those changes from 2001, and by amendments that power was now transferred to the school board. In the application of those provisions of the Law, there has been evidence of incompleteness and incompleteness which, in certain cases, have resulted in the occurrence of illegal actions in the director's appointment process, so it is necessary to lay down an effective way of monitoring the legality of the work of the school boards in connection with the appointment and resolution of the directors of what these amendments and additions are doing. The additional problem was also caused by the amendment to Article 73. The law as the above condition for teachers has been applied, amended the above conditions for class teachers as regards the degree of professional training. The above-mentioned expert preparation was replaced by high professional training as necessary, particularly significant impact on the conditions that must be met by a candidate for the principal of primary school. Persons with appropriate higher professional training shall be protected by the provision of Article 40. Law amending and supplementing the Law on primary schooling but exclusively related to the performance of teachers. While these provisions may be applied to the directors, the case law confirms. There we also had certain decisions of the Supreme Court that caused further difficulties. And about 48% of the current directors have a higher level of expertise, it is also doubtful whether the persons mentioned in Article 40 are. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Schools is equal to the employment of teachers at the workplaces of classroom teachers, i.e. the classes in question. So here's not just a word, it's a matter of more professional training where the director is, it's about the position of about 10,000 people who have such equipment. And it's being arranged now with these changes and additions. Ladies and gentlemen of the previous amendments to the law have not been resolved the problem of replacing the director in the event of his outbreak or prevention. It is fully foreseen, not taken into account what causes problems in the work of primary school institutions. Limited authority by the Director may pass on the authority of another person under the Law on the Institutions and the Labour Act is sufficient for the full functioning of the school and are often cases where the Director is unable to give authority, for example, because of such a disease. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Labour Act is prescribed that the Labour Act should cease when a worker is 65 years of age and at least 20 years of insurance training. Unless the employer and the worker agree otherwise. The application of those provisions allowed the teacher to work with children and after 65 years of life, which is not appropriate for educational and educational work with children of primary school age, and therefore it is proposed to prescribe mandatory termination of work contracts with 65 years of age and at least 20 years of insurance training. Keep going. The amendment of Article 89 of the Law states that three members of the school board of external members shall be elected by the representative body of the local self-government units in a manner in which the school is based. Given that most primary schools are the founder of units of regional and regional self-government, it is evident that such a provision abolished one of the founding rights and necessarily caused negative reactions and this was necessary to fix because we had very illogical situations that caused real difficulties on the ground. And these changes and additions are strengthened by the founder, and by doing so, ladies and gentlemen, there is further decentralisation of the education system because we have to agree as parents have an exceptional interest, as teachers do, so that there is local self-government where the school lives and works. The existing law has not consistently addressed the problem of disbanding the school board and resolving the directors in cases of alleged violations of the rules, and has allowed abuse and self-will of the managing body in schools. I really must say, under the existing law, we have a lot of cases that should have been interrupted. Furthermore, the working relationship of teachers, or professional associates specific to the school system, has not been properly resolved. For that reason, it is necessary to really amend and supplement this law. We do that by changing chapters 5 and 7. And we believe that the adoption of this law will ensure the proper functioning of the system, and since we are at the moment when one teaching year ends and all preparations are made for the start of the new school year, which is usually done during June, July and August. And in order for the new school year to begin with these effective changes, we have proposed an emergency procedure, so please respect that, too. Here's a thank you on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38426	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? ... The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Dear Representative Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38427	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture considered two sessions, i.e. two extensions of the 15th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fundamental School Act with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. 299. The Committee considered these issues as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The discussion, the debate was very broad, extensive. There is only one small summary of the debate, perhaps not quite complete, it will be clearly present in the record. However, in any event during the debate, there was an expression of the need for more thorough reform in the field of primary education and that changes should be made primarily through the adoption of a new law. However, this need must not prejudice the changes and additions to the organisational nature proposed by the amendments and amendments concerned. The Board members and other participants in the debate are aware of the fact that, in this occasion, a greater number of amendments and additions to the Charter of Fundamental Education cannot be approached by even greater procedures, so the Committee is limited to the submission of a smaller number of amendments corresponding to the nature and level of the proposed amendments and additions and, in the opinion of the Committee, improve them in a consistent manner. The Committee was unanimous in the view that the proposer should continue to work more closely on this matter so that, in the appropriate but not too long term, the procedure could be referred to a new whole bill which would not only respond to all other occasions of the debate, but which would, first and foremost, include the verified best world and domestic solutions. Following the debate, the majority of votes were concluded: It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Schools by an urgent procedure and in the form prepared by the Proposer, along with the following amendments, submitted by the Committee on the basis of Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment 1 in Article 5(5) is amended as follows: "The week of work of teachers and professional associates shall be prescribed by the Minister in accordance with the amount of direct educational work contracted by collective agreement." I'm referring to this as a collective contract. Explanation. The collective contract for staff in primary school institutions agreed on the amount of educational and educational jobs that could be burdened by a teacher, i.e. an expert associate. Since it is business-related direct educational work with students, the amount directly affecting the working burden of teachers or professional associates and determining the number of perpetrators in the work of teachers and professional associates, and that it is an interesting issue that trade unions consider an important subject of negotiation would not be directed to determine that quantity beyond collective bargaining. For these reasons, it is proposed to submit the abovementioned addition to paragraph 5. Amendment 2 in Article 7(1) and the amendment of Article 72 is amended as follows: The work of primary school cannot be carried out by a person who is legally convicted of any of the criminal acts against the Republic of Croatia, the crime of taking bribes, the crime of violent conduct, the crime of abuse of intoxicating drugs, one of the criminal acts against sexual freedom and sexual miracles, and some of the criminal acts against marriage, family and youth. In fact, all this said stretches not only to teaching staff, but to all primary school employees. Because clearly it doesn't matter what kind of porter he is, what kind of other clerk he is in school. Amendment 3 in Article 20 is amended as follows: "The decisions of the School Committee shall be valid if they are voted by the majority of the total number of members of the School Board." This overall is the element that seeks to prevent decisions from being made by a simple majority, i.e. to be brought by only three votes at any time in case there is no larger number of present and represents a qualified, or actual majority. Amendment 4 of Article 92b is amended and reads as follows: "Teacher, expert associate and director of the work contract ceases at the end of the school year" at the end, "in which he turned 65 years of life and 20 years of insurance training." Explanation. The amendment in this article in the section relating to Article 92b is proposed for the reasons that years of age are important for the performance of educational and educational jobs and the activities of a professional head of school but not for other primary school jobs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Article 33 adds: "Teachers, professional associates and directors who have completed 65 years of life and 20 years of insurance training before the entry into force of this law and are in a working relationship with the employment contract ending at the end of the school year 2004/2005. Articles 34, 35 and 36 shall become 35, 36 and 37. The explanation is very short. Since individual teachers, professional associates and directors of the conditions set out in the Article of this Act have met before the entry into force of this Act, it is necessary to prescribe that the provisions of this article apply to those persons as well. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The primary school is obliged to comply with the statutes and to lay down the boards of parents and the school board according to the provisions of this law by 30 September 2005 at the latest." Second, principals of the primary school appointed to this duty under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education "The National Journal", No. 59/01, this is the law of 2001 which, on the day of entry into force of this law, comes into force in the conduct of the Director's office, will continue to act on that duty until the end of the term of office. Three, with the exception of paragraph 2 of this Article on the date of entry into force of this Act, shall cease to be valid for the appointment of a director made after the entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education, which is again the law of 2001 which is the subject of the appointment of a person with a higher professional standing, and their term of office on the date of entry into force of this Act. In that case, the school boards of primary schools shall initiate a tender procedure for the appointment of a director by the provisions of this law no later than 15 days after the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. From the date of entry into force of this Act until the completion of the tender procedure, the acting director's office will act as director unless the school board decides otherwise within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If, during that period, the Director expires until the completion of the tender procedure, the duties of the acting director shall be renewed by the Director so far. I wouldn't extend it with an explanation. It's about what the secretary of state was talking about. on the issues of persons with higher professional training and were all elected to functions and duties which, in fact, have been assumed only by the law since 2001 by high professional equipment. That's actually one situation that's been such a via fact here legalized. Furthermore, the committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that within six months, the draft law on primary education should also be addressed in the law-making process.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38428	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38429	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs. So in order to develop economically and generally develop society, and taking into account the processes that take place, normal and new views on the process of education are being imposed. Croatia began to adapt its system by following the development of a system of education and education. They have already started with the adoption of a development plan for education and education systems from 2005 to 2010, and according to the new changes, a whole series of projects have been launched because of the need and the first step here is already said by the State Secretary himself, the amendment of some of the legal provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Education in order to improve school and school management and rights and the obligations of teachers, professional associates and other school employees. One of the most important goals in 2005 is the adoption of a Croatian national educational standard or a shortened and popular as we call it HNOS for a primary school which, in addition to these legal changes, will nevertheless be the outcome of all changes in the education system. HNOS was presented to the public eight days ago last Wednesday. Of course, teaching work is one of the most important, most human and responsible. Teachers are the ones who selflessly give themselves for future generations. Because of their responsibilities, they need to be given a special place in society. The primary school law has experienced a whole series of changes since the '90s. Let's just remember 93, 94, 96, 2001 and finally the consolidated text was published in 2003 and now we have some significant changes that will bring about a major improvement in this particular area. They relate to the status of teachers, professional associates and other school staff, the mode of employment, the conditions to be met, the way in which schools are managed, the conditions to be met for the principal, the selection and the authority of the school board. Termination of work contracts, primary school staff with 65 years of age and at least 20 years of insurance training. In addition to these changes related to the management of schools, conditions and status of teachers, these additions and amendments to the laws also set out the obligations of teachers and professional associates relating to the protection of children's rights. Article 1 also specifies the contents and plans of the school's work programme, and due to greater control over the implementation of excursions, excursions, field classes and other activities, the minister brings the conditions and way of implementing them which is good, because in practice very often these trips do not have an appropriate goal or are imposed by tourist agencies. It was also more precise in Article 3 and it was given the power of the minister to prescribe the start and end of the school year as well as the duration of the educational periods and the duration of the student holidays, and such a way of prescribing the start and duration of the student holidays normally that it is more flexible and may, according to certain situations, determine their beginning and end. The amendments to the laws relating to teachers and professional associates are laid down in Article 71, where exactly who they are are the holders of educational work in schools. There are also situations in which protection of acquired rights is provided to teachers of class and subject education with higher professional training, and these are as the secretary of state said today in the system 43%. These are the teachers who finished high school for a two - year period until 92. There is also the possibility of hiring on the site of teachers and professional associates to persons who do not have the right type of professional training, and they have been doing these jobs for at least five years at a school that has failed to hire a person with the necessary professional training for five years. Such a person can be employed on the basis of the proposal of the school director, the opinion of the Institute of Education and the basis of the Minister's solution. This newspaper will certainly help those environments and those schools on the islands in smaller areas where the lack of expert personnel has been present for years. It refers primarily to foreign language teachers mainly in English, IT, as regards expert psychologists, etc. Article 7 is amended as follows: The paper is that teachers who are trained associates against whom a criminal offence has been committed are quoted as saying: "against sexual freedom, sexual disorder, violent behavior, abuse of intoxicating drugs, violation of family obligations, abandonment and abuse of a child or a minor, against the body freedom of a child or a minor, are moving away from doing school jobs to the power of judgment, suspending proceedings or abandonment, during which time he receives salary compensation. According to the Ombudsman's recommendation, and we heard today from the Committee on Education and Science, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will certainly support the proposal to refer this to all employees who are employed in schools, not just professional associates, and teachers and teachers. Changes have also been seen in the recruitment of teachers and professional associates and the return of the Institute of Public Competition, in the daily press, the application of the needs of public administration offices in the county and the regulation of the shortest possible period within which offers for a given job can be accepted. It also returns to the Institute of Resolution of the so-called. Technological surplus, i.e. Employment without competition when the need for a job requires hasty action, i.e. hire an expert because the teaching process is a process that does not suffer waiting. The restriction on the right of such employment is foreseen for five months if no professional person is invited to tender, which is certainly good because it obliges the school to repeat the competition and thus obtains an expert. In the new proposal, the state administration's office provides for mediation in jobless employment. Elimination of this possibility in the current applicable law created a series of problems in practice. Teachers who did not have full time had to report to competitions that may have been called or simply published on the advertising boards of the Employment Service, the school newspaper, or mostly only through some, I would say notices and were unable to simply see where they could exercise their right to another part, i.e. full-time, were therefore in the same status as all those who appeared in the contest even though they were missing hours because of certain situations. Whether because a small number of children were enrolled or because of some technical or organisational problems in schools. The newspaper related to this same solution is the possibility of obtaining severance if teachers reduce their working hours by at least half full-time. The new proposal today in the procedure addressed the employment problems of trainees and persons who have adequate professional training and work experience in the profession longer than the duration of the traineeship but who do not have the necessary psychological and methodical training as well as deadlines for acquiring and training and passing a professional exam. This is important again in some environments, smaller environments where such teaching is performed, teaching from technical culture is performed by engineers or electricians or some other professions. The question of teachers working in the additional teaching for children of Croatian citizens abroad with the right to return to work or to a place that corresponds to their professional preparation after their work abroad has been done, they have so far not secured this return. The big newspapers are being introduced right into school management. For the first time now, at the proposal of the Statute, the founder's status was brought with the consent of the founders, schools so far were the only institutions in which the founder did not give consent to the statutes, but only the school board brought it. It is also proposed to reduce the number of members of the school board from 9 to 7, which is very significant, so far that the school board is appointed founder because the founder had no influence on school work. About 2001 decentralisation transferred fundamental rights mainly to most primary schools in the Republic of Croatia to counties or regional regional self-government, in part in major cities. It is more of a responsibility of the school to the founder but also vice versa, when the founder can and must participate in making significant decisions among other things and plans and school programmes. The resolution of the same school board is also defined when it is found not to be carrying out its duties, it is also important to change the appointment of the director, as regards that change that this time the director may also be an equal person with higher professional training. Now there are 48% of such directors in the system, I can tell you that very differently our courts have made decisions on the complaints of people who have not been elected to the position of director with high expertise, have made different judgments for the benefit of people. Therefore, the interpretation of the current Article 86 and Article 104 of the applicable Law was different. It is also good that it has been shown in practice to define the deputy director because of the long absence, because so far the director has appointed himself the person most often who replaced him at school, but then that person did not have the full responsibility and authority that the current director had. I must also point out here that it is the protection of secretaries who do not have the prescribed type of professional preparation of this bill, but it is also good that the Law, this proposal provides that the law establishes that the secretary must be or may be a person who comes from legal or administrative legal professions because so far it has been dealt with by the provisions of the statutes of individual schools, so very often this job, a very responsible job in schools, or people who simply for their workplace have ceased their needs, or other professions that can't really do these prescribed jobs well. And in the end, I have to say that we certainly support this, too, that the people who turned out to be, I mean here on teachers, professional associates, and also directors, 65 years of life and 20 years of training to retire at the end of the school year because this is really a specific job being done in elementary schools. Respecting the specificities of jobs in the education system, this proposal amending and supplementing the basic school law will ensure better functioning of schools and management, as well as better quality control of the legality and work in schools by the founders and the Ministry. It is good that these changes are made at the end of one and in preparation for the next school year for staffing, solving technological surpluses, preparing for the organisation of work at school, plan and programme of school work, as well as powers and responsibilities to founders, i.e. By defining the role of founders in the functioning of the school and meeting public needs in education. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education with the Final Proposal for the Law and will join the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to adopt a new proposal for a new law on basic education soon in line with new changes and what is happening in the system of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38430	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Marija LUgarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38431	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not support the adoption of this law, and in particular it cannot support the adoption of this Act in an emergency procedure. That is why there are several reasons for this attitude, we seem to point out the important three groups of the most important reasons. First, partial changes to the laws that work in practice, which we want a different and more modern school to be changed, are only allowed and justified if these partial changes achieve one of the following three objectives: Ensuring better quality of learning or teaching, democratisation of school and achieving a better position of students. Unfortunately, these changes are not the case and a few arguments about the thesis later. Secondly, if we carefully, impartially and professionally read the proposal of these amendments, it is easy and quite unequivocally found that despite the declaration of the opposite sign of this law, centralization, autocracy in character and the work of the director and the reduction of transparency of numerous administrative procedures at school is introduced at a certain school level. And they're not like the Secretary of State said technical questions. Fellows and colleagues, democratic winds in the elementary school blow so slowly and each step is not aimed at affirming but reaching democratic standards and empowering them means a major step backwards. This is unfortunately the case with a number of examples from this bill. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the law change a number of other marginal but not therefore less important situations in everyday school life which have at least a questionable professional justification. I will warn some of these details in the follow-up of the debate. The third but not least important procedure for the adoption of this law is quite rapid and non-transparent. It is totally unacceptable to accept legal solutions that in a larger or smaller way have an impact on school life to bring, allow me that term, to fail through an emergency procedure and without a previous public debate. In this bill, as well as in most other draft laws, the text of the draft against the provisions of the law on the availability of information was not presented in any way to the public and interested parties, which is particularly surprising whether we know how declarative it is for this establishment in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to be concerned about the presentation of its work, and who likes to boast the alleged principle of communication with teachers, students and parents. Such a procedure certainly does not contribute to the quality of the legal solutions it proves and a large number of amendments have already been submitted, not only by the committees, but by one part of the amendment of the Government or the Ministry that have been formally implemented as amendments to the parent committee. In the SDP, we care about bringing especially in school quality and more importantly sustainable legal solutions. We therefore also propose a conclusion which would restore this law to a normal regular procedure and so that the richer the experience and proposals from this discussion of the people of the Ministry of Education would have for a second reading and could be prepared for a second reading of a more quality and professionally based text. A few concrete remarks on certain articles. The ministry's proposal envisions the minister's weekly work obligations. We simply can't believe that the minister, however ambitious he is now, is that he wants to load his job on his back to each individual teacher for each single school year, betraying and signing solutions. At the same time, school isn't some sort of fixed organism. Every new school year is the new activity of some specific school and some new educational and educational and social situation. So far, the law has made it a solution to establish weekly work obligations in accordance with the annual work plan of the school, which was certainly a better solution. The Minister may and should prescribe a norm of direct educational work according to the collective agreement but the minister really cannot know how much additional and additional teaching is needed in which school, who will perform, with how many satins, which free activities exist, at which school, in which extent. I mean, it's also about extended stay, captain's business, duty, etc. In any case, a better solution to determine the specific weekly captainships and responsibilities is to leave it more flexible and to be truly suited to the needs of both schools and the social community in which that school is located. Furthermore, for us in the SDP, the provisions of Article 6 of the Law which are actually legalized by unprofessional teaching are totally unacceptable. I don't think there's any valid argument, no valid excuse that an unskiller should be allowed to teach at school indefinitely. Unequivocal teaching should be prevented, not legalised. I think we need to bring and take other and different measures so that people don't run away from our education and that even in the smallest environments and islands and rural areas, professional teaching can be provided. This is not solved in a way that legalises unprofessional teaching. It doesn't make good for those children in smaller environments and smaller environments. Furthermore, a fairly simple example of how this proposal actually autocrases the school in character and part of the director. This is an example of Article 8 of the Law. We broke up for years and over the years until the decision to establish a working relationship with a teacher was reached by the school board. Such a solution has also reduced manipulations and all that with manipulation is badly linked. The government is now proposing that we return to a less democratic solution, that the decision on which the working relationship will be concluded be made by the director alone. For us in the SDP, such a solution is not acceptable. Very interesting changes are taking place with the school board, and perhaps the best argument on this example is to reduce the autonomy of the school. In particular, the change around the school boards is of the least importance that the number of members of the school board is reduced but it is extremely important to note that the standard of selection of the school board members is replaced by less democratic procedure by the appointment of members of the school board. Even with the government's proposal, it proposes that all teachers and parents' representatives on the school board be appointed founder. Such a solution that we cannot agree with represents a direct degradation of the democratic standard already achieved. At the same time, I think that we here in particular as representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament must not forget one fact. The democracy of society depends to a good extent on democratisation of schools at all levels, and I think, therefore, with special attention should be distracted and not very easily raised hands for each such one only on an eye-banal proposal or as our Secretary of State would say to the technical proposal. And last but not least. By proposing this law, if we accept it as proposed by us in schools, we abolish the classrooms as a professional body at school. We all went to school and we all know that class is a serious and responsible professional job. The class is the professional person responsible for keeping pedagogical documentation. The class is this person who signs the certificates, who keeps the books of origin. The class is a person who is obliged to arrange contacts with parents, with social services, with health care. The class is the person who takes care of the students and does many other jobs. So now if it's not a professional job, then I really don't know what that professional job at school is supposed to be. It certainly is not a good proposal for the ministry and I think that such a provision in the vote and through the amendments should really change. One principled remark. It seems to us in the SDP that this bill introduces some powers for educational inspectors which they do not have under the Law on Educational Inspection. It also defines and redefines some procedures and procedures of educational inspectors in this law differently than is regulated by the Law on Educational Inspection, and therefore warned the promoters that such solutions could bring even more riots into such an already messy system. So maybe if you really decide to go to another reading of this law, we should prepare parallel amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection. On the occasion of the debate and the adoption of this law, many units of local and regional self-government have addressed us in the club, stressing the numerous remarks concerning the right of founders and numerous objections that show very objectively that it will be very difficult to comply with the deadlines laid down in the transitional provisions of the law, given that representative bodies are yet to be established or will do so within a very short period of time during August when representative bodies do not even meet when there is no further need to adopt and agree new statutes and to form new school committees and, after all, it remains the impression that even if they succeed in respecting these deadlines of quality of such work, they will not be at the highest level, and unfortunately, in their remarks, our Committee on Local and Regional Self-Govering. And finally, Mr. Secretary of State, we have been bombed in recent days by a very strong media campaign aimed at promoting the so-called. The introduction of the Croatian national educational standard into Croatian primary schools. As representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I think we need to know that HNOS simply does not exist in a legal system that regulates primary education. The law on basic education on whose amendment, the additions we are currently discussing know only the curricula and the program and teachers are obliged as public officials, whether they want to break the law at school only, exclusively according to the curricula and the programme. When a parliamentary issue of the same topic was addressed to Minister Primorac around the New Year, the minister replied that the knowledge catalogues that were then renamed to HNOS would not have a binding application in the follow-up. that HNOS cannot be applied if we want to respect the law, in the follow-up. The minister also then claimed that in the recent amendments to the Charter of Fundamental Education, these amendments to the law would be introduced by HNOS. And here we are with the law and HNOS nowhere. We in the SDPU do not know whether to interpret it the same way as most Croatian citizens who think that the introduction of HNOS will not change anything significant in Croatian school, that it is actually just one promotional action. Unfortunately, by not introducing HNOS into this Law, the Ministry does not deny that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38432	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38433	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, several general remarks concerning this Law. The Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats stands for education, of course, as the basis for the development of society, as well as for strong reform procedures in all segments of education, so also in primary education and other segments of education and science. And so we have a new school project, so the project that stands up for the entire school, as soon as possible, should be a priority of this country, of course costs, but it's a day-long project that will allow students to learn better, to learn more peacefully, to be safer, and also to make parents work better and to do their job more peacefully. And, of course, a series of other benefits that this project involves. We don't mind the ministry promoting Croatia's new school, however, but it bothers us that in fact not one real project, the Ministry is introducing any new school. The Ministry of Education of the Republic of Croatia has actually already led Minister Primorac for a year and a half, constantly announces some projects but in fact real deep attempts to introduce new reforms into the education system has not and unfortunately it is not even this Law. Therefore, we do not mind the promotion of the Croatian new school, it bothers us that there is actually no new school in all of this, there is no full school, school from 9 to 15 hours. Schools where students, along with their school programmes, could learn something else, various other skills that parents today need to invest and drive children from one end to the other, so this project provides special treatment for gifted children and special treatment of children and with special needs. Of course, safety, prevention of school violence, etc. Unfortunately, this project, which is actually essential and which we will have to accept at some point, is not in the sense of this solution. This solution is not on the trail, and that is why it is bad, and it is also bad because not only does it not go a small step forward, in a series of its solutions unfortunately this Law goes a step backwards. And such essential laws really should not be passed by haste. That's what we warned about when the law was even included in the agenda. The ministry says the law needs to be passed this month, so in June to prepare a new school year, we understand that, but if so, the law should have been proposed at the latest in March this year so that the law could be passed in two readings. So that's something that's absolutely incomprehensible. And I hope that we will soon arrive at a time when laws like this, which are really deeply touched into the most vital systems of the state, so that these laws are not passed by haste. Another methodical note, this Law refers to laws that have been passed since 91, along with five amendments and additions, and does not refer to the consolidated text of the law that was passed, which was made in 2003. So it's almost impossible to follow this law. If you want to follow what this law actually changes it makes you have to have all six legal texts in front of you. So, the basic law plus five of its amendments and additions which, of course, is not a problem, which would not be a problem or at least be the Ministry's fault if there was no consolidated text of the law. Thus, this Law calls for some articles that have nothing to do with what the law regulates because, in the meantime, there has been a change in these legal articles, so that the Law, Article 36, no longer regulates that matter at all, because over the past 15 years some articles have been deleted, etc. Therefore, it is an entirely incomprehensible nomotechnical activity, i.e. access to the ministry in conditions where there is therefore a law. Otherwise, if, in addition to this assessment of this Law, it would like to paint the way the ministry works on this segment of primary and secondary education, then it could be marked as major announcements and then the changes resulting from these announcements, which have been announced, then again big announcements and then back to the old ones. It happened, for example, with a catalog, with a calendar. First one variant was announced, then it was seen that this was not the best way, then it was again announced back to the old according to it, a lot of noise, a lot of noise, and in fact with the loss of energy, unnecessary loss of energy ultimately we return to the old solution and it's actually nothing but manipulation. It's public manipulation. From this Ministry, in the past several, in the past year and a half, there have been no such announcements that we will have estimates of one to 100, that the grades will be in percentages and not grades of one to five, of course nothing, that the working hours will be up to 22 hours, that all will be available without special fees and teachers and school staff, etc., that they will be available to the wider community, so, citizens up to 22 hours, so when it is seen that it still requires some means, that it will enter into some kind of working legal relationship, then the question is what they carry with them. Certainly they do not carry something special question is what they carry with them, certainly they do not wear something special new and especially good, and some of them such as the announcement that schools will be open until 22 hours are and are actually and very, very complicated. It would require, in fact, unnecessary spending of state, or public funds. This is therefore a general assessment of the work of this ministry and this law is not some law that introduces, except that it touches a very sensitive area, does not bring any major changes. But that law still takes one or two steps back. With regard to school autonomy, professional autonomy and decentralisation in the system of education, this law takes a step backwards. And we will actually see, given what the Committee has proposed, if the Assembly adopts it, that step back that will be changed again very quickly seems to me if we accept the Committee's proposal or if we act on it. Then what to go back to, what to make changes for. This system takes half a year or a year to accept some changes at all, and then after those, which are said to be bad, but all that good would make no sense to introduce partial changes and then go into some sort of complete systemic change afterwards. These systems are very sensitive. It takes them a while to catch new provisions at all, to start operating on them, and then half a year later, the new law is already being introduced. I support the board's conclusion, because there's a whole new law to be made. But under these circumstances, we really don't need this law, especially of course, as I said, we don't agree with the fundamental intensity of the law at all. So this law will certainly lead to professional autonomy of primary school and management autonomy equally. And it would be good to know whether, in the case of the adoption of this law, those institutions which have to be consulted have already been consulted under some adopted conventions have been consulted in this regard. So we have recently, the Croatian Government has established a Commission for decentralisation. This is the way back. This is a small one, though, but step back. It's extra centralization in primary school. Is the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has the task of decentralisation and then, of course, decentralise the primary school, has this been consulted? Whether local self-government units that are losing some of their responsibilities here for a higher-level account, somewhere and state-level, are being transferred somewhere from a local self-government unit to a regional self-government unit, and some authorities are being transferred from a regional self-government and county unit to a state level. It is therefore a matter of several steps of centralisation, of new centralised. Were these units consulted under the Convention on Local Self-Government? Any procedure in acquired rights, i.e. the powers of local self-government units in any segment, as well as in the education segment, must try to agree and consult with those units of local self-government. Here, of course, we have no indication that there was any conversation with the alliance of cities and municipalities that everyone should say about it. And it's very clear what their attitude would be. In any case, Croatia is too centralised a country in all segments and we have taken this very small step which we have taken over the past 5 years of decentralisation in the system of education today in part, that is, this law is one piece back. And we won't get much. And we will, of course, go through decentralisation only without need of this solution we lose a few years and, of course, we are losing significant energy. That's how they show these provisions of the law, the choice of members of the school board. He used to be elected by the councils and local self-government units. Now they're just proposing him, the local self-government unit or that. And he's chosen by the founder, which is usually county. So one of the original powers of the council, the school council, or the parent council, we transfer to the founder, to the county. So it's something that's absolutely incomprehensible. And the unit of local self-government, that is, the city, the small town and the municipality that knows most about it and who should be on these committees we completely rule out. We leave the county the possibility that she may be consulting within the local self-government unit but she has no obligation. Neither the local self-government unit has the right under this law to propose its members to the school board. And that can't be a good solution. Disbanding the school board and appointing a commission that will then manage the school in one part. It was done before by the founder, so again the regional self-government unit of the county or the big city. Now, according to this proposal, this is done by the state administration's office, so the state body, the central state body that only implements central state policy. This is therefore the same significant form of new centralised in this system. And what is particularly important is that the commission appointed as the occasion is likely because of some difficulties may be replaced by the director after a new solution. According to the solutions so far, this commission did not have the power to change directors, that was, it is still explicitly stated in the law. According to this, this commission, which has been insisted by the Central Authority, can be replaced by the Director, which means the indirect central authority can be replaced by the director elected by the local self-government unit, i.e. the founder of this solution. Therefore, it is also not a good solution. When the adoption of this law, as far as I know, has not been consulted by the Board of Directors, an expert body at the level of the State representing each county and which is the fruit of principal relations or their professional expertise, this body has not been consulted when adopting this law in formal form, and the same inspection is not in the Department of Education. Thus, there is the formulation, or assessment, which I said would further lose both professional and management autonomy in this way. And another note. Our schools will have to follow this law during the summer when they are vacationed and when the county assemblies are established they will have to adopt statutes and will have to appoint school boards. It is a very difficult and very demanding process at a time when schools are in reduced facilities and when county assemblies or county administrations have far more important jobs than the appointment of school boards. This will all have to happen during that period. And to make things worse, after half a year on the board's proposal, which, of course, I support on behalf of the club, we're going to approach the new law again. So we don't need all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38434	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38435	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words on the final bill... that are here today in front of us on behalf of the HSS Club. Announcement,... announcement by the RES ministry almost a year ago that soon the Law on Fundamental Education will be amended, here we are now getting a lot of delays Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education. These announcements were particularly expressed at the time of the election of the principals of primary and secondary schools when even Mr. Minister announced that he would appoint directors. From that point of view, it is good that this proposal did not show up with that solution because it would be a big step back and stalling the autonomy of the school. In principle, we can say that it is good that the law is changing because in some parts it corresponds to the needs of school practice such as the issue of technological surplus, the possibility of hiring without competition, etc. However, this is not the first change in the original text, so these amendments and additions make it even more transparent and unclear, and in some parts it is burdened with the provisions that are in other laws. It would certainly be good to pass a new Law on basic education, and it would be important to meet one condition, and this is to establish the structure of a new school according to the prevailing European models. I don't know how many times we like to say it's not modern, that no one's happy with it. Here are some concrete observations on the proposed solutions. Article 2 thus provides for the power of the Minister to prescribe the conditions and arrangements for the implementation of excursions and excursions. It is a restrictive approach that reduces the autonomy of schools and parents as an educational community. It determines something the state doesn't provide for. We do not dispute the need to adopt certain pedagogical recommendations that could be prepared by the Educational Office. The reasons for Article 3 are explained that changes are made possible, I quote: "a more flexible definition of student holidays during the school year". I have to admit, I don't quite understand what it means to be more flexible in a legal sense. That means it's going to be 5, 7, 15, 17 minutes or whatever. Article 8 provides that the Director shall decide on the establishment and termination of the employment relationship. It seems to us that such broad powers are not necessary to the principal. That should still be left to the school board, and the principal may suggest whether or not it should be proposed. Article 9 lays down the right to severance. No regulations are indicated for this purpose. Article 18 deletes workers' rights to material and social security which are incompetent to work. It's also a restrictive approach. Another problem is that the director independently assesses the ability of workers. We're wondering if there's any need for expertise to assess a number of specific cases. The director must certainly be assisted by experts in determining his ability. Article 20 sets out, inter alia, the number of members of the school board. It is good that it seeks to give greater authority to the founder of the school, but this right should have been sought in an existing solution, so within 9 and not 7 members. Why? This way they won't be satisfied with schools, school teachers, those who are the bearers of the educational process, those who are asked to school... as recognizable, it feels in one subordinate position. [[You don't understand.]] We do not deny the right to amend and supplement the law on education by favouring the adoption of a new law, we would like to highlight the following. Changes and additions, unfortunately, do not answer the question of what will happen to the Director after the end of the term of office, or if he has not been re-appointed and has not kept and cannot hold the post. This creates great uncertainty, therefore young workers are less rarely decided for the directorial function. It can’t be all that will happen to those who honorably carried out their very complex assignments. This proposal also deletes the classroom in Article 91. If we do not want to mention it as one of the professional bodies, it is the place in the law as a teacher who has taken over other tasks, pedagogical and administrative administrations that have special rights and obligations. Isn't the classroom crucial, for example, in the organization of excursions, excursions, areas which the minister will specifically prescribe, and someone else will carry them out clearly and we don't give him the opportunity to be mentioned at all. The following, amendments and additions do not change the decentralisation solutions. This is good and only confirms that the 2001 solutions were good. However, nothing has happened in the further process of decentralisation of funding, which should strengthen the autonomy of the school. We can't leave the school beyond positive social processes. Finally, at the end of these days, the Croatian national educational standard is publicly presented on the basis of which the first experimental schools will work, and then all primary schools are said. Does this Croatian national standard replace the teaching programme mentioned in the existing law? If it replaces the curricula for which we hold that there is no professional justification, why is this not incorporated into these amendments and additions to the law. If new changes are planned very quickly and complement what has been said over a few months, and the proposal of the board is dominant to make a new proposal within six months, if this national educational standard does not replace the teaching programme which he is, in fact, how schools can apply it without a legal basis. We hope at the HSS Club that the ministry will answer all these questions I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38436	Thank you. On behalf of the club DC, HSLS, LS, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38437	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The DC, HSLS and LS Club respects the reasons why they are here to go into emergency proceedings since it is about amendments and additions to the law that repairs the observed shortcomings in order to make school year more prepared and organised without clear these shortcomings. Our primary school in Croatia needs one Croatian standard, however, the Croatian national standard could not have come as easily from once since we have been killed in the past 15 years by many hardships and many problems. I believe that the conditions for achieving, i.e. defining this Croatian national educational standard in primary schools, are gradually met, clearly and in other areas. Here we have heard from the chairman of the board a conclusion asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a full proposal of the basic school law within six months, and I believe that this will be the case and that we as a club agree and we will give our support to these amendments and additions. I could talk here and about my proposals on certain articles of the law, and here I will give, be free to make two remarks. I think it would be good in this Article 4 to consider in particular these measures to protect the rights of students, especially when there is a violation of the rights of students by the students themselves and their peers. It's a special monster in society, and I think that should be defined specifically by all those who are in this educational education process to have their own place that doesn't happen that when children go to school they actually go to a place where they're going to be afraid and where they're actually going to drag a lot of traumas that will be passed through society and through their lives. And let's say one more remark along the way. Article 7(3) states here that a person who is excluded from the educational education process is entitled to a monthly salary compensation of half the average salary paid to that worker during the previous three months. I think that here should define exactly how long this time of distance can take, because let's say that a person who has committed a crime against sexual freedom or sexual disorder and another of the crimes can, with the help of different administrative tricks, make it difficult for him to be away for a long time and receive that compensation all the time. I think that then this deadline should be shortened and precisely defined by which deadline this procedure should be completed. There's so much for now. We will give our support to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38438	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, distinguished representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38439	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. A few remarks that are in a certain way, because this debate of mine will continue on what my colleague Piploić said only in one completely different tone for a completely understandable reason why he belongs to the ruling majority, and we in HSP in the opposition minority, but we will talk about the same things, with the same tone for the same reasons we cannot support such a bill. I'll explain it briefly now. Namely, the proposed amendments and the addition of the Charter of Fundamental Education by our court at the HSP Club do not solve the important and real problems of education that many colleagues have already presented here and that we are all aware of all of us who are parents of more students who eventually go to primary school in particular. In our court, these proposed changes actually only relativises and such a bad situation in the school that we have and that we all agree on hope that it's pretty bad and even Mr. Secretary of State, otherwise I believe we wouldn't go into these changes. But they have nothing in them that really could change that pretty bad condition. What's particularly surprising to me personally, as a man who's actually worked my whole life in protest before I became a parliamentary representative, and from basic school to college, I'm surprised by one of the decoupling and relativization of academic degrees of education, and it's precisely by the Ministry of Science, which, by definition, should actually be taken up not only for dignity but also for raising the level of reputation of academically educated citizens in our society. Another questionable assurance is actually real concern for the protection of the rights of children who seek to improve or provide some of the provisions of this amendment. I'm going to give these two examples. Article 7 of this Proposal for a Law which actually proposes to amend Article 72 of the Law has not properly addressed the issue of either the circle of persons or the type of criminal offences for which the work at primary school has been excluded. Here's an example. Namely, from the proposed philosophy of the colleague Piplovic, it turns out that because of the committing of crimes, workers who perform educational work and only them cannot work in primary school. According to this proposal, this does not apply to other primary school employees, hence auxiliary staff, technical staff, etc. Namely, the offences in question are further listed in that same article, and I will quote these tax offences, these are: the crime against the Republic of Croatia, the crime against sexual freedom and the pedestals, the crime of violent conduct, the crime of abuse of intoxicating drugs, the offence of breaking family obligations, the crime of abandonment and the abuse of a child and a minor or any other criminal offence against the physical abuse of a child or a minor. This results in, for example, the crime of any form of murder of serious physical injury, infringements of citizens' equality, kidnapping, international terrorism, heavy theft, fraud, or if you want a loan agreement, etc. From these crimes, there is no reason to exclude someone as a teacher, or a teacher in elementary school, which is, for me, unacceptable. Furthermore, it is obvious that the proposed provision should be fully regulated, not in this way, to list the criminal acts that would exclude the possibility of being a teacher but should still be done in a much more thoughtful manner. In this way, the proposed provision acts in fact only as an attempt to sanction some bad forms of behavior that are daily listed in a black chronicle of a daily list, and these other crimes would not be the one that would exclude someone from being a teacher or a teacher at elementary school. And a special story is that no crime would exclude anyone from being an auxiliary technical staff, or anything else, a protégé at a primary school and anything other than educational and educational functions in elementary school. Article 4 The proposal for a law adding Article 70 to the existing law, or a new paragraph in Article 70 of the existing Law, provides for the duty of teachers and professional associates to report to the Director on the violation of the rights of pupils and the duties of directors to the social care authorities or other competent authorities. The logical question arises as to why such a avoidance of the responsibility to report in fact violates the rights of students. In fact, some, and I would even say most of those who, in practice, are infringements of the rights of the child that are mentioned in this article, are actually a criminal offence and is the duty of every citizen and of any kind of teacher to immediately report it to the State's attorney or the MUP. What needs a teacher to report such a thing to the principal first, then the headmaster to the welfare authorities and these bodies to the MUP. What's with the procedure? Of course I absolutely agree with all those who have mentioned here that in particular there must be regulated violations of the rights of students by other students. Absolutely it must enter into an amendment to this law at least in this part where it changes. Article 22 The proposal for a law is prescribed that the principal of elementary school no longer has to have high professional training but that it is enough to have a higher one. So there's a question next to so many people with college degrees, VII. A step that works in protest that half of such institutions are handled by people with higher school supplies. What's actually happening to us. So there is actually a relativization of the degree of professional training that is present with the school secretary. In fact, in Article 28 of the Treaty on the Functioning The proposal for a law provides that the secretary of the primary school may be selected as a person with a high or higher professional capacity of legal or administrative profession, while Article 34 states that the secretaries of the school who are on the day of entry into force of this law are found in a working relationship with an indefinite period of time and do not have the expertise prescribed by this Act may continue to carry out the tasks of the Registrar. It is clear from such a provision that it is therefore administrative jobs that the ministry seems to be able to carry out, for example, middle school workers, and then it is absolutely pointless to prescribe more and let alone high legal professions. However, on the other hand, Article 14 of this proposal provides for a condition for persons who have the right professional facilities and who do not have a specific pedagogical and methodological training, to acquire and train within two years of the date of establishment of a working relationship, under the threat of termination of a working relationship if such obligation is not fulfilled and such a obligation should therefore be prescribed by our court and directors, not that the situation is happening or that this law actually allows less educated people to handle those who are more educated. If we allow such a principle, then they can be the presidents of the courts, so they don't have to be graduated lawyers, but they can have, like, a higher administrative school. Hospital directors could have a higher medical school, etc., whatever you want. So, this kind of proposal actually goes to ensure the academic degree of high professional training and it's interesting that it comes from a ministry that directly in its jurisdiction has the task of caring for science and higher education. Therefore, as a minimum concession to the situation found in our court, the Directors should be set a time limit within which they must acquire a high level of expertise if they wish to be directors and set a deadline for secretaries in which they must acquire a higher level of professional training if they have a medium expertise. Simply, it is impossible to define this as a pedagogical and methodological teaching for one another, and for the other, I can continue to do the job of the secretary and for the directors, even as far as I can now have only a higher school, not more high. Therefore, this principle, which may unfortunately be introduced accidentally by this bill, is totally unacceptable for us, and this is the principle that less educated people handle those who are more educated and that such a proposal comes from a ministry that needs to be cared for by science and higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38440	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38441	It is an incorrect claim by a respected colleague, Rosic, that the club on whose name Mr Piploic spoke belongs to the parliamentary majority. Namely, it's a club that consists of three parties DC, HSLS and LS. Therefore, two-thirds of the club belongs to the parliamentary majority and one-third of that club belongs to the parliamentary minority, which is probably a unique practice and example in the parliamentary life of all democratic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38442	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2) in Article 17,58, the time has expired for the ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38443	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! There's a very important matter in front of us that came back for an emergency procedure. We at the IDS Club believe that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fundamental School Act should not have taken an emergency procedure, especially at the end of the school year. On the other hand, under the form of decentralisation, it seems to me that centralised is reintroduced in some way and central government interference is greater in primary education. Here, I'll just go through the articles a little bit the way we at the IDS Club see this bill. In Article 7, we see paragraph 2 where it is said that a teacher, or an expert associate against whom only a criminal offence has been initiated to get away from his work. It means that even at school, the principal obviously takes over the judge's affairs and that he's moving away from work before he can judge anyone. And in Article 3 of that article, which has been removed without the power of judgment, half his salary is given until a final judgment is passed. I don't think that's a good thing, and maybe that's a little bit of a bad practice. In Article 20, where a proposal is adopted to amend the composition and way of appointing the school boards, instead of the current nine members, the school boards will have seven members, three from the teachers and professional associates proposed by the teaching board, two from the parent councils proposed by the parent board and two from the founders. All seven members will be appointed founder, that's true. It is only a question of what the rights of a higher founder are when the founder is involved in the appointment of five members of the school board with proposals from the teaching council and the parent council. The founder's appointment of all seven members and the appointment of five members is not independent but is linked to other people's proposals in no way gives him greater rights. The impact of the founders will not be achieved in the future through the work of the school boards and will not further have the potential to influence the selection of directors. In Article 21, we believe that too many powers are given to an educational inspector, i.e. that only the founder can determine that a member of the school board does not fulfil its obligations because we believe that the one who appoints has jurisdiction and in determining the reasons for the resolution. Why is the jurisdiction of an educational inspector involved in the first place? Besides, why is it jurisdiction to disband the school board of directors' office in the county and not the founder's? As far as jurisdiction is concerned, we believe that a founder should indeed be held, and thus we propose that Article 21 reads: "The founder is obliged to resolve a member of the school board and, before the term of office is over, if he finds that he does not fulfil the obligations of a member of the school board established by law, by means of an act establishing or statute of the school." If the school board does not carry out the work of its department in accordance with the law or does those tasks in a way that does not allow for the regular operation and activity of the school. The founder of the school can disband the school board and appoint a commission of three members of which is at least one of the classes. The Commission shall have the powers of the school board other than the power to decide on acquisition, loading or alienation of property. The commission manages the school until the school board is established. The commission shall also be appointed in case the school board cannot be established. The founder is obliged to initiate a procedure for appointing a member of the school board no later than 60 days after the appointment of the commission. Here, that's why we think it's the founder that we're proposing as a better solution. In Article 22, we propose that the last sentence instead of "on the proposal of the Educational Inspector" be "on the basis of a proposal from the Founder" and that the words "which report on the motion for resolution by the Minister" be deleted. Article 7 if the school board does not resolve the director on a proposal from the founder within 15 days of the date of delivery of the proposal, the founder shall be obliged to inform the minister with a motion for resolution. If the minister assesses that the proposal is justified, the founder is authorized to disband the school board and appoint a commission. The commission shall be obliged to discharge the Director no later than 15 days after its appointment. We believe that such a regulatory founder would be given at least some authority and the possibility of affecting the resolution of the director for whom he considers that he does not perform his functions in accordance with the law and the statutes. As far as the secretary referred to in Article 28 is concerned, we propose to delete paragraph 3 because we do not see any reason why the secretary's affairs should be established in the statutes. Even in other institutions, the type of culture, health care, social care is not a practice to establish business, the affairs of the secretary are determined by the statute. Article 29 is therefore proposed to delete this article in full because it refers to a secretary and does not make any difference in the design of a working relationship as other school staff. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. How it is possible to comply with the provisions of the law within 60 days. To assume that during June, this law will be passed until the publication in "The People's News" for another 8 days, so this law will enter in mid-July. We are interested in who will perform the coordination, existing school committees, which is legally questionable because the amendments to the law will establish a different composition of school committees as well as the way they are appointed or new school committees, which is again legally questionable because first of all, it is necessary to amend the statutes of schools in order to appoint school committees based on amended statutes. That is why we believe that this issue should have been resolved by the transitional and final provisions of the law because this represents another legal void and doubt. Regardless of this justified inadequacy, there is another problem. It is obvious that in the process of harmonising with the law of the Assembly of Countys and the City Councils of Founders must decide twice, once by giving consent to changes in the school's statutes, the second time on the appointment of members of school boards or vice versa, which is how we previously stated very questionable. If the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Schools enters into force in early July as it is possible until the beginning of the school year, 9 months means all of this is done by doing so more than the summer period when representative bodies are normally not in session, at least not in August and schools do not work. The fact is that before the start of the school year, school committees determine the curricula and programme and other activities in the function of educational work of the school. By the start of the school year, the committees will not be appointed. Therefore, there will be no one to bring the school acts necessary for the start of the school year. Finally, we propose to introduce in the Law an article allowing for the further process of founding rights, the transfer of founding rights to units of local self-government, and to establish a transfer procedure or a deadline within which the minister will adopt a sub-legal act which will establish the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38444	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Wesna Škulić, the distinguished representative, is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38445	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Reading the draft amendments to the Law on Education, it seems to me that there has been a failure. It is, in fact, that according to the proposal for a place of professional school associates, there are no logos. Why am I stressing the role of the logo? I believe that it is a random mistake because, having in mind that over 10% of primary school children have some forms of difficulty and language voice communication and that in even 20% of this population there is difficulty in mastering school material because of the difficulty of reading and writing and insufficiently adopted language system and difficulty in processing language information, it is clear that the teacher logoed as an expert associate in primary school is irreplaceable and absolutely necessary. The population of children requiring professional help from logos in primary school is the most numerous population within the population of children who require some form of additional professional, educational rehabilitation assistance and is therefore their right and obligation of this legislative proposal to provide them with such professional assistance and thus enable them to have their uninterrupted education. It will only be possible if we provide them but also teachers with a professional and background which in this case can only give a logod. It is clear that the number of children and normatives determine the employment of such an expert at school but I find it extremely important to create a network of professional associates according to the real needs of children. Unfortunately, so far, very little account has been taken of it, and various professional associates have been employed in schools according to the will of school management. With very often insufficient knowledge of the rope specialities of a particular profession rather than of real needs. Therefore, the end result was mainly inefficiencies. It is precisely for these reasons that the draft amendments of the Law on Education should be made in detail to the draft amendments to the Law on Education with other professional associates in the school. Following all this, I think there are some concepts that need to be clarified regarding the introduction of expert co-workers in the teaching process. There are three study courses at the Faculty of Rehabilitation, the study of the Logopedia training students to work on prevention,... Disclosure, evaluation, diagnostics, counselling and rehabilitation, i.e. treatment of human communication disorders involving language, speech and voice disorders, reading and writing disorders, verbal and non-verbal communication in children with developmental difficulties, these are children with metal retardation, cerebral paralysis and hearing impairment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the end of the study acquires the professional name professor-logoped. The behavioral disorder study train students to work on primary prevention, detection, diagnosis, early interventions and treatment, processing and subsequent... for children, youth and adults with a risk of disturbances or behavioural disorders, and their social environment in the function of education, socialisation, rehabilitation and social rehabilitation and the completion of the study is obtained by the name of the professor-social educator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Rehabilitation Study train students for educational work with children and adults, professional counselling, rehabilitation, art therapy and suppurative therapy and includes content in the field of mental retardation, autism, visual impairment, motor disorders and chronic diseases and the completion of the study acquires the professional name professor-rehabilitator. All of these study directions are equal but each one has its own narrow specialty, which is particularly important to bear in mind in the adoption of amendments to the Education Law, so that the document clearly distinguishes the opportunities for the work of experts who complete the educational rehabilitation college and enables the employment of experts by school according to the needs shown. I therefore propose that the draft amendments to the law on education be explicitly and evenly cited by all three profiles of experts because their existence as professional school associates is unquestionable. It is the obligation of the legislator to take into account all of the above and thus enable children with developmental difficulties to participate in the course equally, thus respecting the Convention on the Rights of the Child by which all children have the right to education. I cannot, unfortunately, support a bill that only has technical changes because it does not recognise the specific differences of those expert partners in the follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38446	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38447	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the past few days, we've had the opportunity to listen to a report on the hearing of the Ombudsman for the children. We were all unique in one assessment that children are the first and primary concerns of our society. Here's a few days, a few days later, we have a chance to talk again, I'd say about the most important population of our society, and these are primary school students. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education with the Final Proposal of the Law. It is logical that any changes to the law when it comes to child education cause us to have a great interest in our parents and in the public as a whole. By reading this bill, I would like to congratulate the restoring ministry and tell all my associates on one brave attempt to introduce even more order into primary school. Until the adoption of a new elementary school law that should live as we heard today within six months. We all know how difficult it is to accept the changes made to some habits in the way we work. So I am free to argue that the adoption of this law is either an irregularity or a habit of it in the work of primary schools of people working in them will come to a minimum. The primary school in the Republic of Croatia was arranged by the Law on primary schooling in December 1990. There were many changes in April 1993, so in January 1996, in June and December 2001, the final text, the consolidated text published in "The People's Newspaper" came to pass at the end of 2003. Despite changes and additions to the law today, the implementation shows a number of shortcomings that are very negatively affecting the effective functioning of the education system. In the application of those amendments and the addition of the provisions of the law, there have been irregularities, incompleteities which, in certain cases, result in the occurrence of illegal actions. In the process of appointment of directors, it is also necessary to prescribe an effective manner of supervision of the law of the work of school committees and in connection with the appointment and resolution of the directors. On the reasons for the adoption of this law, I think there is nothing more to say than to ensure that new provisions are observed by the start of school 2005 and 2006. Although we have heard it will be very difficult, but I have great confidence in this ministry. These amendments and additions will be better suited to the employment and cancellation procedures of the labour contract and to the question of the conditions for establishing a working relationship. All to avoid problems that have been evident in the past school years. I especially need to refer to the existing law where it is said that a person with a senior professional shift cannot be appointed director. If we take a closer look at the statistics, we'll see that 43% of the teachers, and more than 47% of the directors have a higher level of expertise. The tender procedures for the appointment of directors are currently under way, so the known number of teachers has been denied even competition. We are witnessing inappropriate procedures of responsible persons and administrative authorities in schools which, due to the lack of applicable legal provisions, cannot be effectively sanctioned. I believe that this is sufficient reason for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the law by emergency procedure. I must commend the return of the Institute of Public Competition to the Law on Elementary Education. This will certainly mitigate the consequences of the recklessness that has been done by amending and supplementing the 2001 Law because of the objections in the way schools advertised needs and carried out the selection process. The argument that the public tender is unnecessary and burdensome financial expenditure for the school is not justified because the need for transparency and accessibility to the public service cannot be denied or suspended solely by financial reasons. In the end, I would say that I fully agree and I would like to commend the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at the head of which the esteemed colleague is Professor Selem. And I think that, I don't think, but I'm convinced that the resolution ministry of all the amendments proposed by this committee would take a good look at them because they are very constructive unlike some that are just written to be amendments or worse, they're overwritten. And in the end, I'll just say a few more things for the presentation of the distinguished representative Maria Lugaric. She argued that the minister would prescribe, issue solutions to teachers. No, the minister won't issue solutions to some teachers. The minister only prescribes a description of the teacher's work, and so are the classmates' jobs. The class was not removed as you said, because it is mentioned in Article 50 and that article remains in the current law and is not touched. And you said one more thing about the principal. The school board shall take a decision on the proposal of the Director. It's been so long. So the principal would suggest and not answer. No, now he's gonna choose and he's gonna be responsible for his actions, he's not just gonna propose to the school board, so say I suggested it, but there you go. Now he will be responsible and will answer to the school board and the school board will answer to the founder, and the founder will answer to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38448	Thank you. Replica. Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38449	Dear Mr. President, I do not wish to enter into a deeper expert debate with my colleague, given that we are not the same profession and we cannot talk at the same adequate professional level, I would just like to warn that the weekly work obligations of the teacher include if he works in full-time 40 hour working week, of which the minister can prescribe and agree with the union the part relating to direct education work. And the rest is mostly about 20 hours depending on the teaching course and sort of reading up to a full 40 hour work week. So far, there has been a provision in the law that this week’s work obligations of teachers are determined by a solution based on the plan, the School’s Annual Work Plan. It is now completely abolished and erased. I ask you to read Article 5 of the Law, paragraph 5, the week's work obligations of teachers and professional associates are prescribed by the Minister. Weekly work hours all 40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38450	Replication response. Honorable representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38451	Well, I thought in this House we could talk all equal because we're all equal representatives in the Parliament. And I've seen that from most of your colleagues here reporting for each point. ... Like you and not just you, but especially some MPs who, and I think I can discuss everything, even about spaceships. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38452	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38453	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So here I am just going to comment on these changes a little bit. Despite some of the claims we have heard today, many directors have also made the proposal, at least the directors say so, I have talked to many of them because they also made proposals at professional seminars and I think they are quite pleased. There are some other dilemmas, and I have some dilemmas, and I'm going to take those dilemmas out. For example, in Article 2, this is good: "Constructions and ways to perform excursions and excursions and to undertake other activities referred to in paragraph 4. etc. "the minister is prescribing." It's okay to have the same conditions for the whole country. But I think you should have almost the whole debate, whether or not the conditions of the trip and the excursions are necessary at all. Let's remember a few days ago this case, it's not the first one, we know that a number of kids who died on trips that were badly hurt, that there's a drinking coming, that people who follow students don't sleep all night. So it's a matter of purpose. It's a good thing we know that it will no longer be prescribed by 1990 on the roads of the Kozar Revolution, Petrova Gora, I don't know Kumrovec or anything like that. Furthermore, it is good that it is equal to professional preparation high and higher school, not because we are not for more education and finally it is mandatory and it is good that it is mandatory, but because there are a huge number of people with higher professional training and amongst the directors here we heard, 48% of the principals, 43% of teachers or 10,000 teachers, so I think we should have equal rights because at the time they graduated those schools were just those schools and prescribed. However, in Article 5(6), in fact, paragraph 5 states that the minister can determine the right to perform the job of a teacher or an expert associate by means of a solution, etc. if he spent at least five years at school. Here is the school of the Council Sunday with 1350 students, 55 departments, bordering Zagreb, cannot get informers. Informant one math teacher and an electrical engineering engineer, both excellent IT and children at the state level achieve excellent results, but this requires a tender every five months to welcome five years, and for some before them who went further and went back into the profession and so on. means you'd welcome ten contests to be held. And speaking of competitions, I'm going to say right now, according to this proposal, the contests must be published in the daily press. Let's look at this big school where there's changes, the fluctuation is very big where every minute someone comes and goes, how much competitions are going to cost you a year. We know that the school has a problem with material costs, regardless of the founders, that every kuna is required, that one contest in "Tonight" or "The Morning List" or I don't know "The Vesnik" costs 2 and more thousand kuna, that a whole series of these competitions stand a huge sum annually. I support the transparency of the competition in any case, but then we ask that schools be allocated more funds for these precisely. It's been over the Bureau so far, the employment desk is completely out of commission here. There's been some whaling going on there, too. They sent whoever they wanted. And I'm totally up for it to be all very transparent, but I'm saying that the costs, the increased costs, are going to be quite an item for school. Furthermore, here mentioned in Article 8 above that the Director may hire clearly because of the continuity of work, up to 60 days. I think it'd be better by 90 days. The school has its own specific rhythm, and it's better not to actually change students at any time, I don't think we should touch it. Articles 11, 13 and 14 shall then speak of trainees, and if within a year they fail to pass the traineeship, or state examination, that, the expert examination, the day after that ceases their working relationship. Again the hard school is very specific. If we get people out of here for reasons I don't know what reason they couldn't or anything else to pass an expert exam in five months, four months, or I don't know somewhere at 11, 12 months, I think that would be pretty bad. Perhaps in some ways it could be replaced at the end of the educational period. So at the end of the semester or at the end of the year, I think that would cause a lot less complications. In Article 16, we talk about all those who work in our schools outside, etc. I can go back to work, so I'm asking what's going on with the principals. The principals who take this job, where they come back. I don't know how to call a contest like this, what about the principals, I'm clearly talking about the directors who came from the school where the principals are. What if they're good and they're two or three terms headmasters and they end up being met by the stock exchange? So I think it should also decide that the team of directors should be provided with a job, and I think there would be far fewer problems. As far as the school boards are concerned, I can see they're transferring rights to founders. I'm not sure that's a good thing. So far they've been units of local self-government who think they have a much better insight. We can talk about funding as much as we can, I think local self-government gives a lot to schools from building schools, playgrounds, rebuilding halls, eating etc. So a lot of money. And about the county, Zagreb County has 8 cities, 26 municipalities and now I'm interested in who's going to deploy people from a county center to school boards. I think we should trust in local self-government and that people from local self-government should be kept here for sure. There will always be some manipulations, they will be able to, the principals will try to be people to them, but sometimes it's a good thing the school board does it better, it works better in this case. We still have a replacement director in case he can't perform his duty, clearly the deputy's school, here's the question how much working time, whether he'll stay in class and here. That should maybe define what's going on with the pay a little bit better. In Article 26, the parents of students shall elect each grader to the parent council of one representative. Here I am talking about this big school, there are 55 departments, what kind of body it's going to be, and how well it's going to work with 55 people, and I don't get it. So here's a few things that I don't repeat what my colleagues said, so if there's anything that can be done here, maybe with some amendments, it'll be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38454	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38455	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Supporting a provision that legalises actually unprofessional teaching, counterpart Markovinović used an argument from a specific example of a person I understood from a school who has worked in school for many years and has good results. I think we need to be very careful about such speeches, about such arguments, and about the advocates of such legalization of unprofessional teaching, we are not doing well at school. Would you be able to operate on a surgeon or a person who's not a surgeon who's been working for five years at the hospital? We're saying that schooling is important, that it has a lot of influence, and at the same time we're affirming and allowing intricacies. It's not good and it's not useful for school to discuss it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38456	Replica reply, distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38457	I mean, I think you should say that and maybe explain the situation I said it about. I said that because since the information school that is related to Zagreb was introduced, almost as part of Zagreb can't get any IT experts and now time, it's happening not only here, I won't talk about islands you know and I don't know any further, but here, a few miles from Zagreb no one is answering, so no one is professional. And now I'm back again, so we're repeating the contest. There's going to be a lot of money spent on competitions, and in fact, there's going to be a story again that it's not going to be anyone. Here perhaps we should just mention that the problem with our colleges, that very few experts especially from the PMF are coming out, that teachers should still have more understanding and perhaps on the European scale they would better stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38458	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38459	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I enjoy hearing how many people say that schooling is very important, very important and important to us. However, that should have been said in making a state budget, then it is the right time to show it in practice. This is how when education funds grow a few index points below the general increase in the budget, it makes it clear and loud what this government thinks about education. There's no dilemma. The numbers are exact, they speak very clearly. When funds to prevent violence or drug abuse in schools fall to one third of last year, it clearly tells us how important these things are to us. Let's not be wrong, that doesn't make any sense or need. The numbers speak for themselves. Accordingly, I do not see any need for this law to go into emergency procedures especially because it will be impossible to implement during the summer. There will be some ad hoc solutions, a solution that will then be improved during the fall, which will be feleric and so on. The application has enough to get the law into normal procedure. For example, I have no idea how it occurred to someone to suggest that they adopt a standard or yearly standard for teachers, so the standard of direct work with children is determined by the minister. So, the entire system of collective bargaining that has been developing in Croatia for years, which has nevertheless reached a certain level of democratic functioning, is being put out of effect, and now we are probably going to change it and we are going to fix it, because it's not quite clear to anyone at all. Which, if they didn't fix it, would bring that system. It would bring arbitration in determining the teacher's norm, which then means arbitration in determining the number of teachers needed in schools and, of course, arbitration in determining the necessary quality of work. On the other hand, an increase in the norm could, of course, save a decent sum of money. So much for Article 5. Article 6 already said several times legalizing unqualification, perhaps keeping the workplace somewhere, all kinds of manipulations were, we are all aware of it, but it does not belong to the law definitely. It is legalized that a man works at school for five years, has no qualifications necessary, and in those five years he has done nothing to gain it, but we are now legalizing the fact of his stay by giving him the status of a qualified teacher through the Law. I don't see that in any way consistent with the basic function of school as such, if it were to happen, if I didn't insult anyone now at the veterinary station, it would be terrible, but if it were happening at school, it just falls away from the idea of an educational institution. Article 8 speaks of competition and good that the tender is public, I would suggest and the amendment I wrote that the competition goes to the Internet if the school does not have a site has a founder therefore local self-government, perhaps even if these are such great costs that the electronic published competition is the one that is actually legally acceptable to which it can be reported. The most interesting provisions are those concerning the appointment of the school board. So far, the school board has been appointed on three sides, each group has named its part, now from three groups all members of the school board are appointed founder. Look, it's about basic schools that work in small communities, mostly and where a member of the school board is one of the political functions in that municipality, in fact, wanted me to admit it or not, but the party in power will determine the members of the school board, how. Well, because they're going to reject this proposal from the board of teachers, they're going to accept another one where it's going to be similar. Why don't we put that information to the Board of Teachers themselves, of course, with the founder's right to take them off when they're not doing well, nobody's asking that question at all, it's the right in itself, but this appointment process I'm convinced is going to lead again to the moral political ability of a meeting on the school board, I don't think anyone really needs it. Article 22 discusses the appointment of the Director and the possibility of the Director to be appointed with senior expert staff. It seems to me that it directly hits two fundamental principles, one is that in education they need to do fully people with high professional training, which is unquestionable and that school is an educational institution. If, as an educational institution, the criteria of formal qualification and formal education are not respected, then where will they be respected. If the school does not select the most educated man for its manager, the most needed is an educated man who will do so by another institution and why would someone do so and what is the purpose of the school in society. I think the most rational would be and I'm also clear that there are places where it's impossible to find a man with a high-end expertise who would be the headmaster. I think the most rational thing would be if the director, the high-skiller candidate, had priority over the tall one. So, it's possible to choose a director with a higher level of expertise but when there are no candidates with high professional training who meet the requirements. This would cover the situation where 48% of senior directors but on the other hand they would meet the other principle that young people should come to education, we are constantly complaining that no one will be in education, young people will not be in education, they don't want to make progress, count on those people who work higher education to be the last 92. So, they're not very young anymore, in the meantime the union and the Ministry have organised additional education for these teachers in several places in Croatia, people could have acquired high professional equipment, they haven't made up their mind, but they've decided to run for director, I think it's unacceptable. All in all, I think the urgency should be removed from this bill, that it should be put into normal procedure and found suitable solutions to these problems that I have cited and a number of other problems that other speakers have cited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38460	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38461	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I am correcting the incorrect claim that young people will not be enlightened, that is not true, even the quality is extremely good come to us top young teachers, they will, but it will take a lot of them, so that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38462	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We all agree that education is a human right and a key factor in reducing poverty, promoting democracy, peace, tolerance and the development of each country. We therefore expected, listening to the government's performances and to its own resolute minister in this bill of law some significant changes, something that the minister keeps saying and also constantly potentiates, communication, democracy, openness, communication not only with the older students but even with the youngest. However, what we are getting from this final bill. It is already said here when Mrs Lugaric spoke on behalf of the SDP Club that the school should also be a school of democracy, there is a foundation, for a general perception and atmosphere of a world-wide tolerance of the spirit of tolerance, peace, to create together with children a learning environment in which she will feel secure, healthy, protected from abuse, from violence, from discrimination that will be healthy, which will be stimulated to learn and make sure that education programs and materials fully reflect the promotion and protection of human rights and the values of peace, tolerance, gender equality using just every opportunity and then this one, because we are also bringing this proposal into this significant long decade of the United Nations. This is exactly a decade of culture of peace, non-violence and education for children. And what do we have in this final bill? We have one big and significant step back. So again, the government continues to announce itself to me when it speaks to the public quite something else, reformable significant steps. And what does he do in practice? Small but such changes to the laws in which the existing state is destabilised and in which it acts in fact in some of the positions that we thought we had left. So here are these changes that may be and how sometimes they are characterized by technical nature, but they are essentially created by an autocratic school. There is no one trust here against the school, versus the principal of the school as well as the principal of the school versus the employees. teacher and teacher. However, all those powers that were in the ministry now fall exclusively upon the minister himself. So does a minister of whatever kind, the truth is sometimes he has to deal with both rules and some kind of issue of conditions and ways exactly for standardisation and joint action. But please, does one of these significant changes as to how it is announced begin with the minister determining the conditions and methods of taking out trips and excursions, how a teacher will take the children on a one-day trip. So we have one big mistrust from the minister personally versus the principal of the school, versus the employees, and then a hierarchical such system is imposed on both directors versus not only the parents but also their own colleagues. teacher and teacher. It was even highlighted here because of some sense or principle of efficiency, the economy of conduct. Which is gonna cost us a lot of money. Well, democracy costs just like all the good things. And how is that supposed to be appointed director? And camera op scuro. And who would do that? I don't even understand what these are usually like to discuss these things with a number of amendments to the law. Well, it is an obligation to publish an ad in at least three daily newspapers because here only to publish an ad for the appointment of a director in the daily press, which means that if it is a free place for the principal of the primary school in Split in Spinut, then it will be published in Slavonski Pošnik and vice versa, when it is in Slavonski Brod, then in the Free Dalmatia or in the Zadar List we will fulfil the obligation. And that was regrettable. We used to have that obligation in the school paper. So what's more natural? Well, after all, it's the cheapest. So, you can see the clear pathways you want. Whatever can be camouflaged, whatever needs to be non-transparent, be even more non-transparent, but here we have this one formula, one principle of economics. Democracy is a long and thorny way. Of course it's worth it. But that's one little thing that basically reveals and recognizes the spirit of all these changes. And there's no change that's almost for the better. The school board says the name of seven members is appointed founder of three from the order of teachers and professional associates. Seven picks them on a proposal from the teaching council. So again, we have as much as our colleague Vuljanic was pointed out here, again we have one intensities yet on some small door to founder i.e. and politics itself has an impact on that. That's not necessary. We've been through, I think, over a period. And if it is necessary to appoint the directors again, then surely this is not one way to make a change to the law, because those appointed must indeed serve, do their term if they meet all the legal standards or if they act in accordance with how they exist and how they will impose the law on them. So, this one relationship of trust is thrown, and it's something that I just don't know how to explain because the announcements, I repeat, both the Government and the Minister of Public Relations are quite different. We may already know in advance if the minister does not appear, and he himself has not assessed that the legal proposal is on the trail of what he was saying in public. We've already had countless times to witness that that's exactly what we've been through. And a few observations on specific provisions. If a teacher, an expert associate therefore notices that the rights of a student of any kind are violated, he says that he is obliged to report to the welfare authorities in Article 4. But it did not stop his obligations that he was just like any uninterested neighbor, so he reported that there was some kind of violence or that something strange was happening against a student or child. In Article 7, I think that it should be processed in a way that includes more comprehensively all those crimes in certain chapters which make such a person convicted of such a crime absolutely inadequate for primary school education. It's hard to imagine what a crime would be that would allow. Only one that would allow a teacher or teacher to work with children at all is listed here. Our Penal Code itself is not so well-conceived that it puts the focus precisely on criminal acts against the Republic of Croatia. This was a feature of socialist criminal law, so ours doesn't even know it anymore, but for the promoter, the government is the most inadequate person convicted of a criminal offence against the Republic of Croatia and only later on against sexual freedom... that the whole order should be changed at least as provided for by the Penal Code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The crime of breaking family obligations, I think, should formulate it for the whole head, not only for this crime but for all crimes against marriage, family and youth but certainly need to be complemented that the person convicted of crimes against life and the body is absolutely incompetent. These are, in most cases, more severe than the violent conduct itself, for which only three years of imprisonment has been prevented. So it would be inconceivable to remain a professor who was convicted of severe physical injury or for a murder to work at school. So, I tend to all those MPs who have pointed out that there is really no reason for this bill to be the final proposal, that is, to be referred to the first reading because it is really unacceptable. But it's a shame, because this existing law is really in the sense that it's actually a minister and it's speaking it can improve but we've got something quite different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38464	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38465	Thank you. So here's the wrong quote from a colleague was, "the less transparent the better." Well, I don't think that's exactly how it's supposed to work, because this is exactly the law that proposes the publication of a working relationship through a public tender. And when I was talking, I agree with the principals in any case to keep the public tender, it won't impoverish the school, but 30 competitions a year that repeats what direct times two to three thousand kunas to school will certainly take a lot of money from the material costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38466	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are seven, eight reported. This would conclude the work of this session today. Tomorrow it's 9:30, and it's the honorary representative of Jena Adam. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38467	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education. Honorable representative of Jena Adam, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38468	Honored President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law on primary education and following a series of changes and additions shows a series of shortcomings and for the smooth functioning of the primary school system, changes are necessary in order to align with the real needs. Violence among children and young people in schools is one of the main difficult problems that basic education faces today. For this reason, I am convinced that sanctions such as the ban on working in primary school should be applied to all primary school employees regardless of whether they perform educational work or any other work at school. The basic question to be addressed by this Law should certainly be welcomed as well as the consequences that this Law will bring about. I also find it very important that no additional resources from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia are needed to implement this Law. I think the adoption of this Law will ensure the effective functioning of the basic school system and some solutions are imposed by practice itself. Following a further analysis of the proposal for an Amendments and Supplements Act with the Final Proposal for a Law, the following new Article 71a could not be agreed: in paragraph 5, the power of the Minister to establish, in certain cases, the right to carry out the work of a teacher, i.e. an expert associate of a person who does not have the appropriate expertise. In accordance with Article 71a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the other part, of the other part, of the other part, are bound by Article 71a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The article says: "Extremely on the basis of the proposal of the Director, School and Opinion of the Croatian Ministry of Education, the Minister may decide to establish the right to do the job of a teacher, or an expert associate of a person who does not have the right type of professional training, and he has done these jobs in a primary school for at least five years, and only for school work which has failed for at least five years on these jobs to hire a person who has a prescribed type of professional training.". I believe that a person must have the professional training prescribed by the Law on Education because otherwise it may happen, for example. that the geography teaches a teacher with a secondary expertise, i.e. that the work of a secretary is done by a teacher. I'm sure without proper professional training, no one has the right to enter the class in the 21st century. My next observation refers to Article 8 of this Law where there has been a change in the way in which the teacher’s working relationship, i.e. an expert associate, was founded. More specifically, paragraph 6 says: "The director decides on the establishment and termination of the employment relationship. Based on my knowledge, i.e. a number of years of years of work experience in volunteering, I am of the opinion that the establishment and termination of a working relationship for indefinite working hours should continue to be decided by the school board on the proposal of the Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38469	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38470	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Listening to the discussions of colleagues yesterday, it is obvious that the MPs were expecting some major reform initiative. However, I really recognize this as one we would say an attempt to technically improve the law and what I like is an attempt to allocate responsibilities where responsibilities should go and that the existing slightly dysfunctional structure of school management is structured in a more appropriate way. However, unfortunately the performance is not the best, we also heard yesterday that there are many remarks, I would not repeat them, the president likes to say... So I'll stick to that principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have proposed some amendments, although I say I would like the proposer to take a little bit of a chance to imagine this together as a first reading and to remove these numerous, numerous technical shortcomings. My amendments and remarks refer to, in the first place, to the harmonisation between certain provisions. But here you see, if these amendments mean anything to you, it's obvious that we're all wrong, so in this first amendment, instead of educational periods, I've written educational developments, I hope you'll recognize it, I've appreciated it. My comments therefore apply to Article 72, which changes and in which you did not respect, did not respect the terminology of the CAP and the KZ, so I suggest that this termology be changed. I suggest that there be further introductions of a academic and obligatory detachment because I don't think that someone already being investigated for a crime can be treated equally, and one against whom there are these doubts, therefore, against whom the proceedings have not begun. Furthermore, I think that all those who object in the way of publishing competitions, competitions, in the plural I say about teachers and the secretary. Furthermore, it is not clear that the social clause set out in Article 73a is not clear. is inserted out of context, I suggest that she, she arranges so that it is clear that it is about those cases when the employment relationship ends. And I also think, in fact, that this is allotment, responsibility that it's also not good to propose the director's resolution, yes, it's really hard to say when half of his colleagues talk, so I think that when it comes to the director's resolution, then we should use the term used in the appointment, so that the founder rather than the state administration's body in article 88 is disbanded by the board, or the director's resolution. One word that I don't prolong and repeat everything that was said yesterday, I recognize that basic idea, therefore, that responsibility is allocated and that some problems that are in the current text are settled, but I say, it seems to me that, as far as technique is concerned, it wasn't very successful. And I think the idea of going to another reading, to fix the text isn't bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38471	Thank you very much. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38472	... refer to the change already, the proposal to amend the law addressed and related to the provision of supplementary teaching abroad. [[Specially enabled.]] With a small introduction, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports organizes and finance Croatian teaching completely or partly 19 countries of the world, somewhere around 7,000 children, and the teaching is performed by 94 teachers. The Ministry shall select and finance teachers who refer to the work of the Regulations on the conditions and procedure of selecting teachers to work in addition to the children of Croatian citizens, i.e. Croatian citizens abroad. In particular, additional teaching is being performed for Croatian national minorities, teaching in Croatian, is most often organised within the regular school system. For this introduction, I will refer to the article proposed 16: "A person selected to work in the supplemental course for children of Croatian citizens abroad who has a working relationship based on the jobs of teachers or professional associate for an indefinite period of time has the right to return to work on which she has previously worked or on other jobs for which he meets the conditions if he returns within 30 days of the day of the termination of his extracurricular work for children of Croatian citizens abroad.". Mr. Secretary of State, I am particularly pleased with this article and in the hope that what has often happened in the last few years, after the competition has been called, or a small number of interested teachers, or teachers or those professional ones with experience, have not, because their departure for four years, or twice two years abroad, has not guaranteed that they can return to their old workplace. Now it's finally regulated, so I think that even the choice of teachers will be much better, for years, quality, experienced teachers didn't report for work because they were afraid to leave their jobs and continue their existence as unemployed when they returned to their homeland. The regulation of Article 6 of the State Secretary is now well prepared and in anticipation of the complete Law on Fundamental Education, I hope that it will include the full implementation of the Croatian supplementary teaching abroad, and this is very important for Croatia as a mother country and especially for those children who have been allowed by Croatia as their home country of learning Croatian mother tongue in the hope that this is their mother tongue and that it will not happen in a document that I have before me a name that is terrible, for me is terribly questionable. Croatian teaching abroad, teaching Croatian language and culture is intended for children of Croatian citizens who temporarily or continuously live in other countries or children abroad whose Croatian language is a family language. This word family language is unacceptable because our children who come to Croatian supplemental school are asked whether it is mother tongue or father or mother language, but for the first time I have heard and read from this document Croatian language, family language as the main language, or as the language that our children learn abroad. Do I repeat once again whether our children are second, third or possibly fourth-generation Croatian language is unfortunately not a mother tongue, but can't be called a family language, because those non-Croatian children who want to learn Croatian can also attend Croatian courses. Well, we can't because of the minority who do, and let's call it the Croatian language a family language. In the hope that with the new law in six months, as I have said, Croatia's additional teaching will be fully covered, I accept this bill and I will follow what will happen to new changes or new laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38473	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38474	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Well, this is obviously a story of a great law that has become small over time. A year ago, Minister Primorac informed the Assembly Committee and its president, Mr Peter Selem, that he was preparing amendments and additions to the Charter of Fundamental Education. The return of capital building of the school space to the state level should also be prescribed in the first place in these envisaged amendments. That's what was supposed to be written in that law. That's how Minister Primorac writes to Mr. Selem. When Minister Shuker heard about it, he probably said something like that was out of the question. So now capital building schools would put a burden on him. Then, of course, it gave up, and then a year after that law, something went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and then it was sent here to the Parliament. There are none of the important things about being sent. And what are the important things that should be in this law? The establishment of a pedagogical standard. Not a word of it. Editing the system of progress. Not a word of it. Raising the school's material standard. Not to raise the material standard of school, but to bring it down to local self-government he'll go back or he won't have any money for it. Raising the material position of a teacher who is desperate. Not a word of it. The average teacher's salary is 4000 kuna, and let's say in the judiciary is 9,000 kuna. The development of a school violence program. Fighting violence in schools. And in relation to the teacher to the student, the student relationship and the student/parent relationship towards the teacher. We read in the paper that Tomislav Mercep threatened teachers if his son didn't conclude a positive assessment. So his poor teacher ended up five. What's he gonna do, he's afraid of women. None of the important things, none of the important things in this law. But there's something else. What's up? Let's see what's up? For example, Article 6 states that Articles 71a and 71b are added. And what does it say in 71.b? It says that in foreign - language schools teachers and professional associates must rule that foreign language. That is an unusually wise and unusually useful observation. It's one provision that saved this law. I wonder if the minister hadn't prescribed something so profound? What teachers would do, which would be done by the principals of these schools who teach in foreign languages. They would hire teachers of course who don't know those foreign languages. Well, if that hadn't happened, then the minister came up with such a smart provision. It's almost like you wrote that, that a lifeguard at the pool must know how to swim. But this law, by its quality, draws dangerously close to that famous regulation by Minister Primorac on beach behavior where he prescribed the shape and color of bathing costumes, signed it and then changed his assistant because of his signature. Because it's about the same level of quality. What else does it say in that law? It says in Article 8, please, Article 8 talks about competitions. About how teachers and professional associates are chosen. And then he says: “If a person who meets the requirements does not appear in the competition, the competition will be repeated within 5 months. And until a working relationship is established on the basis of a repeated tender, a working relationship can be based on a person who does not meet the requirements." This may seem to be about the way the hospital needs a neurosurgeon doctor. Well, he's running a tender for a neurosurgeon doctor so there's no neurosurgery, and then five months they can hire someone who's unprofessional in the neurosurgeon's business, so he'll hire, I wouldn't want to insult anyone, but a plumber comes in, it doesn't matter. So he's gonna operate on people's heads and their backs for five months until the re-competition. It comes from the Ministry of Education, Education, Science. The possibility of working with children is someone who is unprofessional. And you still write it in the law. You can hire an unprofessional one. Because you can hire one who doesn't meet the requirements. This Parliament should accept that. In Article 7, you say that educational and educational work in primary school cannot be done by a person who has the power to be convicted of a criminal offence. It then lists: against the Republic of Croatia, against sexual freedom and sexual miracle, the crime of violent behavior, abuse of intoxicating drugs, violation of family obligations, abandonment and abuse of a child or another criminal act against child abuse and minors. So he can't raise, he can't do educational work. But someone who is tried for such a crime can, for example, be a school secretary. He doesn't do educational work. He might as well be the headmaster. He could be a janitor. It's not a danger to you. For example, a school janitor is someone who has been convicted of the crime of violence against a child. Never mind. Therefore, all in all, it is an article that is not fit to be seriously discussed here in the House, especially not by an emergency procedure and that it is here as such, and even with amendments, many amendments that are here days to be accepted here. I suggest that you accept some conclusion from this House that this is the first reading of this law, that you sit down and write a serious law where you can solve important things, important things that need to be solved in the system, and that you free us from these parts so that teaching in a foreign language has to be done by someone who knows that foreign language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38475	Thank you very much. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38476	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. And so are most of the people who, both the MPs and the MPs who participated in the debate, I cannot support the adoption of this law. Especially not making an emergency procedure. This debate is not yet even finished, the proposal for amendments to the law has a total of 36 articles, including the preliminary and final ones. 33 amendments have been submitted so far. 33 amendments were submitted to 36 articles before the end of the debate. And if nothing else, I think it qualify this law for a second reading. Secondly, the law that introduces centralisation, the law that introduces autocracy in character and part of the principal in primary school, the law that offers fairly clouded administrative procedures at school, the law that enables and opens space to manipulations is certainly not something that I can support. I do not agree with the the thesis presented by the State Secretary in the opening statement that it is technical issues. It's all just technical questions. In our bill of law, there are too many changes that apply to something that has been done by the school board so far by groups, so the board of bodies that are composed of three groups now all makes itself a single director. Too many terms in the law and phrases the minister makes, the minister decides what is still acceptable but in two places in this 33rd, we have the 36th article if the minister estimates that this will happen. A law that seeks to prevent manipulation, a law that wants to be transparent cannot allow the situation to depend on the assessment of the minister in some disputed situations, especially in a school that is quite important and concerning every citizen of this country. In addition to these things that have been discussed here quite a bit in this debate and which are mentioned in the explanation of the bill's proposal to change, we, for example, are also changing some marginal but not therefore less important things, which are also very, very, very questionable, for example, in Article 3(1) of the current article of the 41st course of the school year. Then, for my very unknown reasons, paragraph 2 is changed which says "the beginning and end of the school year is equal to the school year, the duration of the educational periods, the duration of the rest, etc. "the minister is prescribing." For God's sakes, the beginning and the end of teaching, not the year of teaching, because the year of teaching consists of teaching and the rest of the disciples. It shows a certain, I apologize for perhaps a difficult word, but it's a creaminess in the preparation of this bill. Furthermore, one change that I also do not understand is the definition of the parent council, and it is introduced that the parents' council is established for the sake of organised achievement of the interests of parents. When we introduced the parents' council as a body to school in 2001, the main idea was to ensure the right of students, the right of children. No doubt the parent has his parental right to the education of his own child, but his parental right is limited to the law of the child. And I think that this definition is worse, that is, the one that used to be that the parents' council was founded to co-operate with the wider community and better attaining the educational function of the school, I think it was much better. Furthermore, I would like to point out once again that my huge disagreement with the provision that seems to me to be quite misunderstood, which is that the week's work obligations of teachers are prescribed by the minister. The weekly teacher’s work obligation if he works full-time is 40 hours and besides direct work he, every teacher at school conducts some supplementary, additional teaching, extracurricular activities, he is in certain professional bodies and even the ministry’s commissions, prepares for teaching, has a duty of professional training, some work in extended stay, duty duty, captainship and all that in everyday school life I think is totally unacceptable. I can't really understand a minister who would like to load himself on his back that for every school year, for each single teacher prescribes that it will be filled from 1 to 40 hours in his week. This usually caused a lot of problems in schools, but so far it has been determined by the yearly work plan of the school, and it has been a pretty big job for the school itself. I really don't know how the ministry's gonna do it. Among other things, Article 5 defines who the experts are at school. We've talked a little bit so far about being defined here as an expert associate of a profession that actually doesn't exist anymore. It's about defecologists. The concept of an expert working with children with special needs once called defecologist was abandoned after a UN convention where these children were told are not defective and they are being handled by professors of special pedagogues etc., etc., logopedde depending on the type of damage. We continue to promote these abandoned and outdated concepts that define certain expert associates according to child damage. Secondly, it is not acceptable for me to work somewhere else in the school when there is a social worker who does not belong to school, a social worker should work elsewhere, that there are no logos in professional associates. We have a lot of problems in schools with a speech especially in lower classes. And if we already have a social worker I repeat, it doesn't belong to the school, then we need to include logos as well. If we accept this concept with social workers, I ask why you didn't put a police officer in school when there's already so much violence. Then it would make some sense, even if it's completely pointless. There's already been a lot of words here about unprofessional teaching. I join all those colleagues and colleagues who have said that at least it is strange of the Ministry of Science and Education to expect the Croatian Assembly to propose legalisation of non-professionals. I think there's still a comment I don't think should be. I don't think it's a good suggestion that a working relationship be concluded by the Director, that it's the director who decides which person the working relationship will be with, and I think that we should accept the solution that has so far been that the decision to make a working relationship is made by the school board on the proposal of the Director. This, of course, does not deny the responsibility of the director as between the other and the management body at school, but the law also introduces a good part of a number of mechanisms that can be replaced or modified by the composition of the school board. Furthermore, we have not discussed, this is the proposal of Article 18 of the Law, which discusses a borderline situation where a teacher, or a professional associate, has been affected by psychophysical health and what happens then. Unfortunately, we have more and more cases that teachers and professional associates have really compromised health due to the nature of the job, and I don't think a good solution that is proposed here is that if the director assesses that the teacher or the professional associate is impaired health, then something will, I think, be a much, much more objective assessment of the health disorder than it is an assessment, or an assessment of the director. And finally, I would like to demystify and break possible illusions that have been created with great expectations of the new Law on Fundamental Education. We're all talking about this is only partial. In six months, the ministry will be passing a new law. Our law basically works well, because we don't have a pedagogical standard is the problem of the ministry that promised us a year ago that it would propose a pedagogical standard, we still don't have it. The problem of professional teacher training is relatively well solved in law. The problem is the ministry, which in last year's year's 10 million kuna of a single June, did not spend on professional teacher training. The problem of material equipment for schools with radioactive and methodical equipment is not a problem of law, but a problem of the ministry which in the last school year of 20 million kuna did not spend a single lip on the equipment of schools with radioactive and methodical equipment. Therefore, if we really want to step forward, it is not good to adopt a conclusion that would allow the adoption of a new Law on Fundamental Education, because it will basically be the perpetuation of the existing one, we need to define ourselves as a concept to adopt a new Law on Mandatory Education and thus join Europe and all those countries and societies that increase the length of compulsory education and the difference between basic and compulsory education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38477	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38478	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the government should accept such media announcements, the 2010 Development Plan for Education and Education. It's not clear if the government is going to do it, but yesterday it's on the narrow cabinet on radio reports, but that could happen. So very important things, strategic development of education and primary education is adopted by the government, the Parliament and its bodies have absolutely no idea about it and that act itself comes too late. The serious government took no later than half a year after it came to power, to come up with such a plan. The plan, of course, is only the government's plan, I assume it will come to the Parliament after a few months and may be adopted after half a year. Thus, unnecessary years are lost in such an important segment as education and education. Croatian National Education Standard is bombed out in public about this part of the school system which is equally important or even more important than the administrative administrative part, the Croatian Parliament and its bodies have no idea. This is the main event in this segment, but the Croatian Parliament is not taking part, it is not discussing, and of course Croatian national educational standard is a very important segment in some kind of education reform that has been preparing for so long and cannot begin. This law is in this context in fact irrelevant, it is merely a confirmation that nothing is happening in the essential ways of reforming education. This law is a step back, a few small steps back. In that sense, he is unnecessary and harmful. It will, if it will be temporary, and the board's intensity is to be temporary, bring more riots into schools than it will bring in some positive shifts, not to mention that its main intensity is the centralisation of the system and the loss of management and professional autonomy of primary schools, and this will last half a year because what the Committee on Education, Science and Sports has proposed to the Croatian Assembly, a new bill must be found before us in half a year, so that these changes, which means that the exhaustion of teachers, school councils, county assemblies, should this take so long. In short, the club of HNS and PGS representatives will not support this law. We stand for the concept of a new school, a day-long school from 9 a.m. to 13 o'clock, from 9 to 17 o'clock. After a serious debate, it should be a strategy for the development of Croatian education which, of course, needs to be confirmed here in the Croatian Parliament and it is the only way. The sooner we do that, of course, the sooner we will have the kind of education that every modern country that wants to develop should have. These partial shifts, especially if the shifts are backward, we really don't need them. We will, of course, vote in favour of the Committee's conclusion that in half a year there is a full law here, but that will not be a solution unless we agree on what is a complete strategy for the development of the complete education system then including basic education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38479	Thank you very much. Final review, State Secretary of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38480	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam MPs, gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your constructive discussion, for a series of proposals, and I am pleased to have this debate which is beyond the context of the law itself because we have witnessed that education is indeed the interest of every family and enters every house and strategic views that have been made these 15 years, are always welcome. I am particularly pleased that the Committee on Education has been very creatively involved in this law, and I must admit that in particular one provision means a great deal to us, which concerns solving a series of problems that the 2001 law has passed, where there have been a number of lawsuits which will be resolved by these amendments and additions, because these situations will also be legally resolved, and this is one amendment from the Committee. We also respect the whole law and we have worked on it and therefore when some of the remarks coming from the representatives that HNOS does not have a Croatian national educational standard insisting in the law, we respect as a warning but we assure you that no change, no change that significantly penetrates the system will happen without the Croatian Parliament, without the legal framework. And I would like to point out that Croatia's national educational standard as one starting point for a modern Croatian school after all our experiences, and in whose making ladies and gentlemen participate experts from all political options in Croatia, has its own future, has its stands. On that perhaps a little later, I would now rather look back on your specific remarks, your thoughts, what these amendments and the additions of the law do. Indeed, those who have recognized that this is an improvement in the existing 2001 law and that these changes and additions solve some of the concerns that are in the functioning of the system are correct. First of all, about the functioning of the director's election, about coordinating more and higher professional arrangements, about the problem of replacing the director when he is gone, about the founder being strengthened and the school being further decentralised, and not as some said centralised, I keep it very useful and thus the system will function better. Here's the thing. I would like to say that the school year is not the same as the school year and begins with the first school year. 9 and ends 31. 8. while the teaching year may, for example, begin 5. 9th and finish 18.6. So these remarks are not acceptable to us. I would like to point out that according to the 2001 Law, an unprofessional person could have been employed, and at any time without conditions and for up to a year until the school year, but in this House, Mr. President, I would like to say that the Croatian schooling of certain problems there is, about 5% of the teaching in Croatia is professionally unrepresented, but it is one problem that has been encountered and which is trying to eradicate itself, and by this measure that we have introduced, we have allowed the minimal functioning of this course, now a non-professional person can only be employed if the tender has not been reported by a professional person and only up to 5 months in order to eliminate these difficulties that we have in the system. On the remarks that we have not cooperated with the directorial associations, I want to remove it there is a letter here where the directoral associations are encouraging us to address these burning issues that have been created by the adoption of the Law 2001 and the difficulties in the functioning of the system, especially if you want to deal with this institute high and more professional equipment. I would also like to say that, with regard to prescribing the teacher's work obligation, we have received their opinion from the Croatian teachers' union, and they hold that the teacher's work obligations should be prescribed in one section because of the provisions of Article 75a. The primary school law provides that the obligations of teachers and professional associates in primary school are to decide on the schedule of work obligations in accordance with the annual plan and work programme of the school by covering the work with students in the follow-up and other work in accordance with the Law and the Collective Contract. The collective contract for primary school staff signed on 10 June 2002 and applicable from 1 July 2002 set out Chapter 7 of Articles 37 to 65 of the obligations of teachers and professional associates in the primary school of Article 75a. The law has been inadequately resolved on the subject of the work obligations of teachers and professional associates. In addition, according to the provisions of this article, expert associates work in the follow-up and even in extracurricular activities, the issue of labour obligations is left to the border collective agreement. It is not a disputed justification for negotiations with trade unions on direct educational work of teachers and professional associates or on the issue of labour obligations. The content of the norm, not a question of collective bargaining teachers at primary school, perform other forms of direct education work with students, lead classing, and carry out other tasks arising from the nature and quantity of educational work with students. And certain specific jobs stemming from the structure of the school or the provision of laws, other regulations or collective agreements. A sublegal act should prescribe the relationship between those jobs and the description of the jobs that the teacher is required to do during the working week and in order to assign teachers to a level playing field in all primary schools. Here, that's what's important and what the sublegal act will do to the minister. Furthermore, I would especially like to say here that these amendments and additions of laws do so, correcting the injustice that has been done, to persons, teachers who have higher and higher professional equipment. Why? Gentlemen, not only does this apply to the directors who have 400 in Croatia, about 48%, it refers to 10 thousand teachers who also have such professional training and something else, it seems to me that in the philosophy of the new Croatian school where we are all very rapidly developing and the way the future of the teacher's role and the role of the teacher is imagined, systematic education that it is necessary to fix this issue because it is in one great dimension and acquired the right and one ethical question, because I ask you gentlemen, can we accept that someone is a good teacher and can't be a director, we have cut off one life's chance for him. Here, a little further on the issue, by 2001, people with high and higher professional training could compete equally for the principal of primary school provided that the conditions laid down for teachers or professional associates were met. The problem of the Director with higher professional training is caused by the amendments to Article 73. The basic school law, the amendments to that article, amended the above conditions for class teacher as regards the degree of professional training. In the meantime, it was replaced by a high level of expertise, which has particularly affected the conditions that must be met by a candidate for the principal of primary school. Persons with an appropriate higher level of expertise shall be protected by the provisions of Article 40. The law on amendments and additions to the law on primary schooling but only when it comes to the performance of teachers. Unfortunately, these provisions cannot be applied to the directors, which is confirmed by the case-law, I warn you that the rulings of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia number that I am now not counting from 2003, gentlemen, have introduced a major mess, and all those who were for such a law in 2001 must understand that there has been a mess to be removed, so these amendments and additions have been made. Article 40 itself is problematic because it is about transitional provisions, as the rights of the disputed transitional provisions are permanently applied to them is a place in the very text of the law which regulates the necessary professional preparation, it is about acquired law and people will consume this right as long as they are physically present in the system. The proposed law amending and supplementing the basic school law addresses the problem of acquired law. A person with higher professional training who has more than 40% in the primary education system, which is a huge number, and is particularly dealing with the problem of the director with higher professional training, because more than 47% of the current directors have higher professional equipment. It also enables equal employment of these persons, including equal running for the director's post, besides gentlemen, it is only an option and it is not a guarantee that it will be with more than any selected person to compete whether these amendments to the 2001 law were denied because the transitional provisions were protected only in existing jobs. By binding the terms of the Director under the condition of the Teacher, it is not an exception in the legal systems of Europe. Therefore, if one of the conditions for a school principal is that the candidate fulfils the conditions for a teacher, with which the explanation should be discriminated against by persons with higher professional qualifications who meet the conditions for a teacher, especially when it comes to a degree that was the highest degree in the profession when those persons were educated. Let's say class classes until 1992. It's about the acquired right, almost half the teachers in the primary school system. And something quite personal as the secretary of state that I've been dealing with these issues these years. I think we need to be aware that we don't have too many extra people in education. We need to be very wise to these people who devote their lives to children, and organize and that is what the Ministry does in its strategic plans, organise systematic education, systematic education, because you know that in five years knowledge is doubled which needs to be known, and that is what is important, and in this way we will keep these people with us and make them useful and this way, if we kept this, we would cut off a lot of life chances. And, of course, competition will work and that in the final selection of directors, it is likely that school boards will decide according to the best bidders they are. Here, that's what we really thought we needed to do about equating more and high professional equipment. There's something else I want to say here, which is why we've had an objection to Article 4, which is why applications for violation of child rights go through the principal. I want to explain that specifically. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The basic school law now shows that Article 4 of this draft provision is also laid down in Article 108(1). As a measure of the protection of the rights and well-being of the child, the Family Law emphasises the obligation of teachers and professional associates to take those measures but not directly as it was now in law but through a director who is the management and professional head of the school as a public institution. Article 70 of the Law establishes the obligation of the school to cooperate with welfare authorities and is responsible for effective co-operation of the principal of the school. Gentlemen, on those remarks that this is a step back, this is a further centralization of the school. Quite the opposite, dear friends. Here exactly what was brought in 2001 goes into deepening. You can see the founder's position. We're strengthening the founder's position. Well, the founder is such an important link to the functioning and decentralisation of the school system. In what way? So in such a way that the founder will now appoint all the members of the school board but in a way that the founder will give two direct members of the school board and thus, I have talked to a lot of the founders on the ground, they are extremely satisfied with this solution and thus all the responsibilities they accept on the ground. So just remember how many schools, sports halls and everything else are built, how many cities you come from and county schools from. And gentlemen, what is the strategy of our ministry is the fact that the school must live in the community where it is. Therefore, in that school, parents who send children and teachers who work must also have their own interests, and a founder who has been spending money since 2001, you know how much, on decentralised funds. That philosophy of the school, that's where interests are leveled. It can't be from any other centers. Therefore, all those who think that there will be voting, that there will be abuse of this law just wants to amputate those who come out of the context of the law, those who do not want to comply with the law and the founders will get greater concern and will be able to have more direct influence. And I would really like to have a consensus on this solution because it is good for Croatia, because it is a further implementation of the school in the community in which it lives. Here, maybe a few more thoughts, but I don't want you too much of your expertise around the logo. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of problems with professional names and it is not possible by law to resolve all these names. Why? Because they're changing very quickly, and we, by sublegal law, have listed all kinds of professional preparations so that these which the rehabilitation college produces and declares both defecologists and logos. Above all the logos. Why? Because we have a logo somewhere that works at two schools or several schools. Why? Because some schools and some environments have a need for a very large profile and nowhere to be found. We know that these are specific problems that certain children have, but it assures you by law, here I could read you all this. The law can't fix all this, but it's a sublegal act that we can normally do, and that's what we did. So don't worry that the logos where they need to be in the Croatian school system will be. And something else for the Croatian public. In the last year, we've secured, we've provided about a thousand jobs, professional jobs in schools because before the government, I don't know why, they just haven't opened up such jobs and they're logos, they're librarians, they're educators, they're psychologists, and you can trust me because it's all verifiable what I'm saying. And finally, Mr. President, I would like to say, given that this debate was very broad and strategic, I would like to say something about the Croatian national educational standard on which we included about 600 Croatian experts from all political options. Well, that's what you had a chance to see recently and in the open. And why we did it like that. Because this is where I want to say and this is what the government of the Croatian Democratic Community has decided. About education should be a high professional consensus because we have no other choice. So we are grateful to all those and those critics who have evaluated the Croatian national educational standard, that they have become involved in professional design. I can tell you that Germany, Slovenia, some other countries are only now doing the same standard these years. But what is ultimately our goal? Our goal is for gentlemen to reach a modern Croatian national curricula, to finally reach local school curricula and the Croatian national educational standard is the basis for us to get to a modern national curricula in elementary school to reach local school curricula. So that's one way, that's one process. I assure you, the Croatian national educational standard has about three thousand school-based pages. Finally, when it is included in schools and the next school year 5% of Croatian schools will have a pilot project then we will have one process, one more experience. But already all the grades are saying that he relieved the student, that he created more useful knowledge, integrated knowledge, related knowledge, more harmonised knowledge, more lasting knowledge because we also released these contents from the fact that they are unnecessary, and encyclopaedic knowledge and various other inaccuracies that are simply disappearing and the goal is to give the student permanent knowledge that will be useful to him in solving life problems and ultimately create a competitive man during the time we live in. Here, this is our goal and, of course, that these changes and additions that are really small, there I agree, but effective for the Croatian school system to function in primary school. I thank everyone again for the debate. We'll respect your amendments and we'll show ourselves about everyone. Thanks again, everybody.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38481	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38482	Mr. Secretary of State says no major change will happen without the Croatian Parliament. HNOS happened without the Croatian Parliament but what is more important without the Croatian public. Namely, HNOS is not but nowhere public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38483	And another correction by the respected representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38484	Mr. Secretary of State says this step that makes this law a step towards decentralisation. The most fundamental fact is that it's not true, and I'm correcting it. So far, the selection of members of the school board has been made by the board of parents and the teaching council and is now the founder. So power rises one level up and not down. Going up is centralization. The disbanding of the school board and the appointment of the commission has so far been done by the founder, so county or great work and now makes the office of the state administration. That's quite decentralisation. From the level of units of regional self-government rises to the level of the central state. To make things even harder, this commission now appointed by the state administration's office, so the central government's body can replace the director, which has not been the case so far. Therefore, it is the real centralization of Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38485	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on primary education, emergency procedure, Proposal for Law No 299. The debate on the text of the Law has been concluded, firstly we have a proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP which reads: The final proposal for a law amending the law on primary education has been held in the first reading, any objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Please vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Score. For conclusion 33, abstention 4, 58 against conclusion is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38488	Your Honor, Mr. President, I suggest that, given that there are 35 amendments, because of the effectiveness of voting by hand under Rule 238, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38489	This is faster, the proposal is what it is, the Rules of Procedure is what it is, I have to accept it. I am asking Secretary of State Nevio Šetić to be shown about certain amendments. Amendment 1 to the First Amendment of Ms. Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38490	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38491	A little louder secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38492	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We don't accept the amendment. In Article 3(2), the words "school year" are replaced by the word "school" as the representative would have wanted. The concept of teaching year already exists in Article 41. The basic education law and the scope of the period from the start of the course to the completion of the course as opposed to the period of the school year beginning on 1 September of the same article, shall end on 31 August of the following year. Amendments and additions to the law propose only a reduction of the existing provision in the formulations, teaching years or beginning and completion of teaching.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38493	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38494	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, even though you were in the opening statement when we discussed the law as synonyms used the syntagms of the school year and the school year which gives the right to this amendment to some of the same ones that have been discussed, I will not further argue this because from your ministry you have very creative solutions related to the school's calendar, so please just vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38495	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38496	The amendment is similar for the same reasons the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38497	Dear Representative Josipovic. He's retreating? Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 3. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38498	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38499	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Four MPs, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38500	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38501	Give me a little explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38502	Excuse me. A sublegislative act should prescribe relations between those jobs and a description of the jobs that the teacher is obliged to do during the working week for the uniform borrowing of teachers in all primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38503	Thank you, Mr. President. State Secretary, the minister prescribes how many and what teachers in primary school will do this is in direct contrast with 10 years of successful union bargaining and achieved trade union rights. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38504	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Again, I call upon the representatives and representatives who are in the Parliament building to come to the assembly, and those who are in the square. Amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38505	The government does not accept this amendment for the same reasons as the amendment under number 4, noting that experts do not carry out teaching but are doing professional work according to their profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38506	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38507	I find it unacceptable and obviously I am not alone in it because it is the opinion and unions and some other representatives here in the Croatian Parliament. So, I find it unacceptable for the minister to prescribe the week's work obligations of teachers and professional associates. The Minister may prescribe, in accordance with the collective contract, a standard of direct educational work and of direct educational work. All that is left until the completion of the agreed working hours, which is 40 hours from the year-to-year annual school work plan, and it is really unacceptable that the minister makes a solution for each individual teacher, for each individual school year, what he will and how much he will do in that part of the school's real and autonomy. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38508	Please, who's for Amendment 5? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6. Also representing Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38509	The government does not accept this amendment because it is an attempt to solve the problem in small rural mountain and island schools where individual teachers work on jobs for which they do not have an appropriate type of professional training and for more than a decade at a specified time because the school cannot reach the appropriate person. As we have seen in the debate, about 5% of us have such problems at the level of the entire state. If the provisions of Article 8 are carefully examined The final draft law amending Article 73 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Education, which amends Article 73 of the Law, can be seen that the school is obliged to carry out ten public tenders every five months to find a person of appropriate professional training. Only after that may the proposed paragraph 5 of Article 71a be applied. and then, with the prior acquisition of an expert opinion, only for persons who do not have an appropriate type and who have a prescribed degree of expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38510	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38511	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, two things are unacceptable here. First, it is unacceptable to legalize unprofessional teaching. Secondly, it is unacceptable that after five years you absolutely raise your hands from hiring a professional person in the islands and in the smaller environments. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38512	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This also consummated amendment to the 7th Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38513	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38514	8th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38515	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38516	It becomes an integral part of the law. Nine. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38517	The amendment was consummated by Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38518	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 10th Amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38519	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, paragraph 1 of the proposed amendment... Consuming Amendment No 8. and paragraph 2 is not acceptable because it is important to distance a person from direct contact with students rather than from doing all the jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] Paragraph 3 is not acceptable as it would allow for the distance of any employee before criminal proceedings have been brought against him and after the initiation of the criminal proceedings, it allows for paragraph 2 of the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38520	Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38521	Mr President, the Proposer is not clearly involved in criminal proceedings and in the conduct of criminal proceedings. Apparently, he doesn't know when criminal proceedings begin and what are the consequences before and after. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38522	Please, who's in favour of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38523	The Government does not accept this amendment because taking into account the character of the public service as a constitutional provision that each citizen has the right under equal conditions to be admitted to the public service, a public tender is imposed as the only procedure that precedes the conclusion of the labour contract and ensures transparency and accessibility of the public service of all interested parties meeting the prescribed conditions. The publication of advertising through the local competent employment office as currently prescribed by the Charter of Fundamental Education is not only a restriction on the availability of all interested entities but it is also a controversial procedure, especially after the amendment of the Employment Act, which has been deleted from the employer's obligation to report the needs of workers to the office and there is no consistent way of publishing the needs of institutions, bulletins, advertising boards in the office and others. School newspapers are not accessible throughout the circle of interested subjects and the internet is unfortunately used in the Republic of Croatia only 17 to 18% of the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38524	Representative Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38525	I thought, Mr. Secretary of State, there would be absolutely no dispute around this amendment. Since you are one of the ministries that insists on transparency and that everything is published everywhere. Therefore, the government has proposed its amendment to publish the call for and advertise the job in the daily press. I only suggest adding a decimal behind that daily press and that possibility where the competition is announced expands. So, the competition except in the daily press that should also be published in school newspapers, school websites and or founders and via the Employment Office. I estimate that by doing so, a larger circle of potential employees would be informed that the possibility of employment is at a particular school. I really don't see why it is that you are now against the fact that the need for a place of work is simply in many places, unless not what some colleagues have pointed out in the debate that we have already had in the cases that, if we say, the competition in Zagorje is that the daily press in which the competition is to be published is, for example, Free Dalmatia and vice versa. I really don't see why you refuse this because it actually only increases transparency and reduces manipulation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38526	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12th representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38527	We don't accept the amendment. And the explanation is the same as the amendment number 11. For the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38528	It's consummated essentially, so it's withdrawn. The same is true of 13 respected MP Nikola Vuljanic. 14th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38529	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The amendment proposes to retain the existing provision which has often caused problems in practice, employment blockades and since it was not possible to define the responsibility for the implemented recruitment procedure of the Director and the School Committee a solution already in the Law on secondary education and which clearly, precisely, responsible person has been proposed. In the case of unlawful conduct in employment, the responsible person shall be subject to sanctions within the meaning of the provisions of Article 10 of the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38530	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38531	You see, Mr. Secretary of State, what you call troubles I think is a minor manipulation which has also been shown by practice over the past few years because in any case, the solution by which person at school to hire makes either the principal or under the b) school board on the proposal of the Director. I think this variant makes a decision by the school board on the proposal of the principal is certainly the one that prevents manipulation. It is not clear to me how again from the Ministry of Transparency you can either support or in some way advocate a solution that allows the decision on which person will be employed at school to be on purely discretionary terms only and only the principal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38532	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38533	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38534	It becomes an integral part of the law. 16th Amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38535	The government does not accept this amendment. For example, Article 9 of the final draft of the law concerns cases of termination of a contract of work with an amended contract of work, in which full-time work is reduced by half or more than half the working time, and under the provisions of the general rule, such a person would not have the right to compensation and, unfortunately, such cases are clearly present in the basic education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38536	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? I'm sorry, Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38537	I think it's pretty vague. Namely, if it stays as you say in a working relationship. So the contract remains in force, which is then severance. So it wasn't too much for me, the simple solution is contradictory to yourself what you have in the proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38538	Please vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38539	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38540	It becomes an integral part of the law. 18th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38541	The Government does not accept because this article amends the provisions of Article 80 of the Law in such a way that the existing provisions are in line with the provisions of the Labour Act and that the obligation of the school to provide material and social security professionally incompetent workers, as this is impossible and given the importance of the content, it is necessary to keep the article in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38542	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38543	Article 82 is amended as follows: Two things are controversial. In the old provision, the old article 82 decided that a teacher or a professional associate had been impaired by now on the school board. Now, according to your proposal, it is that if the director considers that it is, etc., I think it is unacceptable, that only the director does it and only the director. And secondly, this second part that you just said I think was a better solution for workers who are at school and socially more sensitive that the school is obliged to provide material and social security for workers because a good part of the injuries in health and work skills stems from the nature of the work that teachers have that is quite difficult and demanding, especially mental work. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38544	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38545	The government does not accept because with regard to the formation of the school board, it does not show how the founder will come up with the name of the persons to be appointed from the teacher's order, from the parents' order. It would not be acceptable for his names to be proposed by the school director who is responsible to this very school board. Furthermore, experts are considered not to have the right to be members of the school board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38546	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 20th Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38547	The government does not accept the text of Article 20(3) of the final draft law as it wishes to highlight the importance of the founders in making the final decision on the appointment of members of the school board in order for the members of the school board to be directly accountable to the founder rather than to the stakeholders who propose them. As the founder of the appointment takes place on a proposal from the teaching council and a proposal from the parent council in practice, the appointment of members of the school board will be carried out in a significant majority of cases in accordance with the proposal. However, in cases where the proposal is not acceptable, the founder will be able to make the necessary adjustments or request a new proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38548	Thank you. Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38549	Mr. Secretary of State, what you call important because of the founders is called to reduce the autonomy of the school. Yesterday, you adopted a programme of priority measures for 2005 to 2010 in line with Europe where you have an increase in school autonomy as one of the goals. This is a measure that directly strikes school autonomy, since all the members of the school board are appointed as the founder's representative, with you not being clearly determined whether it is the founder's representative body or someone who has not been appointed there for the time being. The second reason why I suggest this change is exactly hiding in what you said yourself is that if for the sole reasons the founder doesn't like who the teachers and parents have suggested that you will be able to modify. Now, these very real reasons were very often a polygon and for the political manipulations that I think should be prevented in school. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38550	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38551	The government does not accept with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38552	A colleague of Vuljanic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38553	the explanation is practically the same. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38554	Voting or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38555	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38556	Thank you. 21st has been withdrawn. 22. The Committee on Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38557	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38558	It becomes an integral part of the law. 23. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38559	The Government does not accept this amendment because the provisions of Article 21 and Article 22 of the final draft of the law seek to ensure effective protection of the general interest. It is indisputable that the primary school is a public institution and those whose services are mandatory and whose use is a matter of pleasure. So it's about the highlighted general public interest. It is also an undeniable right of the central state to intervene in situations of frequent serious violations of the law and in accordance with the provisions of Article 66. The law on institutions. The applicant's wish is an effective way of sanctioning the illegal behaviour of the management body in schools and the irresponsibility of the founders who oversee that body and who have the possibility of taking certain actions before it is necessary to involve the central state. In the case of basic schooling, it cannot be accepted as the only measure already mentioned in Article 66. The law on institutions because judicial termination of the school is certainly not in the interest of students and the general interest of society. The authority of the inspection is indisputable and stems from a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38560	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38561	Thank you. Amendment 23 withdrawn. 24th Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38562	The government doesn't accept. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education addresses the problem of acquired rights of persons with higher professional training in which there are more than 43% in the primary education system and the problem of directors with higher professional training is particularly addressed because more than 47% of current directors have higher professional training. It also enables the equal employment of those persons, so equal running for director's post, which has been denied since the transitional provisions were protected only in existing jobs. Therefore, if one of the conditions for a school principal is that the candidate fulfils the conditions for a teacher with which we should be able to discriminate against persons with higher professional training who meet the conditions for a teacher, especially when it comes to a degree that was the highest degree in the profession when those persons have been educated, class classes since 1992. It's about the acquired right. Almost half the teachers in the primary school system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38563	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38564	The idea of the amendment was not to remove people with a higher level of expertise from the choice of headmaster. If school education isn't an advantage, where else it'll be. Among other things, those people who hired with higher professional training had the opportunity on three occasions to study which this same ministry organised, however, in the second administration to acquire high professional training. They didn't do it and they have time to run for head of school. I don't see any reason, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38565	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38566	We don't accept the amendment, and the argument is equal to Amendment 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38567	We're pulling back. We're pulling everything back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38568	Amendment withdrawn. 25th, 26th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38569	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The same explanation given in Amendment 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38570	Amendment withdrawn 27. 26th Amendment 27. Marije Lugarić
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38571	We accept this amendment to the honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38572	The 27th amendment by Marija Lugaric was accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. The 28th amendment is also the representative of Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38573	This amendment shall be adopted by the Government in accordance with the provisions of Article 49(1). The Law on Institutions may have an expert council and another college expert body. In accordance with this Article, Article 27 lays down professional college bodies in primary school and the classroom is not. The work of the classrooms is specific, the jobs of teachers to be prescribed by a sublegal act establishing the working obligations of teachers and professional associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38574	Comrade Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38575	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State, since this is a really professional issue, not a political issue that you didn't accept this as well as the previous amendment. I think we've talked a lot about it already and it's clear to everyone. So I ask the MPs to support the amendment. That it's totally unacceptable to remove a classmate as a professional body at school. The class is a really professional and responsible job. The class is the person who signs the certificates, keeps the parent books, etc., etc. And I think it's really stupid, it's literally stupid to cut class as a professional body at school. So I'm asking for a vote. I apologize for this expression if anyone considered it inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38576	To vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38577	The government does not accept because, given that the job of the secretary is important for the functioning of the primary school and the tasks of the secretary are not prescribed anywhere, Article 53 is allowed. The law on institutions that are subsidically applied to the special law prescribe obligations to regulate this issue by the statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38578	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38579	Thank you. Amendment 29 is withdrawn. 3rd representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38580	We don't accept this amendment. And an explanation related to Amendment No 11. If you need to do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38581	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 31. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38582	We do not accept the amendment and the explanation given in Amendments 11 and 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38583	Amendment 31 withdrawn. Thirty-two. The Committee on Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38584	We accept this amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38585	It becomes an integral part of the law. 33rd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38586	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38587	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 34. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38588	I'm eating the amendments on Amendment 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38589	I knew he'd accept something.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38590	When it consumes, it's accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38591	Yes accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38592	In the consummated area. Thank you. 35th and last Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38593	The government accepts this amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-08-0.u38594	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to vote on the law now. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. With 72 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 18 against this Law adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the next conclusion. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer within 6 months of the adoption procedure to the Proposal for a Law on Fundamental Education. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 89 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
