ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34587	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, in the first reading with the intention of having a thorough discussion. And this Law wants to satisfy three basic trends that occur in the development of local self-government in the countries of the Council of Europe whose members we are. First, we want to encourage best practice in local self-government units, further, to take a further step in decentralisation, and to provide permanent instruments to strengthen the administrative capacity of local self-government units. Depending on the debate on the previous law, I must say that this Law was not done in haste, was not done overnight and was not done on our own free will, but we held a debate with the national associations of local self-government units prior to the referencing procedure and we received support. We have received support for these proposed legislative solutions and of course proposals that should be complemented in their opinion. So this Law wants the government to institutionalise the model of promoting best practice that we have introduced this year, gentlemen on Friday, last Friday at the Old Town Hall in Zagreb was held a recognition ceremony for the best practice of local self-government units. It is a project implemented by the Council of Europe, the Union of Cities and municipalities and the Central State Administration Office of course, the Central State Office is a sponsor and carries a significant part of the cost of the project. We want units of local self-government to compete with each other, we want them to do their best, to contribute to the development of their end, and to expose their achievements to the general public so that they can copy others as best practice and we suggest that an annual state award be awarded for best practice in local self-government units. In the debate on the Law on Areas as one of the burning problems, a monotypic form of units of local self-pour. Yeah, we're aware of that. It is not one big city of Split, the town of Rijeka, Osijek and on the other side of the municipality, I will not list them, but with a thousand inhabitants, and they are according to current rules in the jurisdiction of equal. We are leaving this proposal for a monotypic form of units of local self-government. We suggest that special categories of local self-government units be introduced. It's big cities. For Croatian occasions according to the government's assessment, these are cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants and those who do not have 40 but are county headquarters. We want to give these large cities this Law in the framework section, predicting that they can issue all the permits concerning the construction of locations and spatial arrangements. We want them, make them active participants in the Bologna process. To give, to give responsibility in the development of education. We want to give them the power to maintain public roads and open up the possibility of the decentralisation process adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia last year for the 2004 term of office, 2007 and according to the dynamics created by the decentralisation commission in which they are composed by state officials and representatives of national associations of local self-government units and units of regional self-government so that these large cities can receive special laws and additional powers. We believe that these units of local self-government have the capacity, that they can provide both technical and material infrastructure to perform more jobs than they do today. Of course, those state affairs I've listed outside the big cities would be done by the county. This Law aims to monitor trends in the development of technology and therefore enables who can, who wants it and who thoroughly arranges it for the Rules of Procedure to hold meetings of representative bodies and through video conferences. We want to encourage continuous professional training of local officials but also local officials. We therefore propose to establish a mechanism, one, for now we have called the Academy of Local Democracy, which would raise the level of capacity of local self-service units through different forms of work of shops, lectures, seminars, and even a wider education. We do not want to impose it, we want to build this institution in partnership with the national alliances of cities and municipalities, or the county community. With this bill of law, we want to correct the observed deficiencies in supervision. We believe it was not a good solution, that each general act challenged, challenged the body responsible for local self-government. It would be the Central State Office in this institution because he doesn't have experts of all profiles to deal with general acts of education, health care and social care, construction, and I don't know what. We therefore propose that any central authority of the state administration may exercise control from its own part. The issue remains open in the event of disbanding the representative body as the most severe penalties for breaking the law. A deadline within which the government should call extraordinary elections. Although the government rarely resorted to the model, it was still necessary to disband several representative bodies, so the presidents of the disbanded representative bodies filed charges with the Administrative Court. Because of the application to the Administrative Court, we were unable to maintain a 60-day period of disbandment in order to call new elections, so there was a breach of that deadline. Although everyone, all government decisions were confirmed by the Administrative Court because this is the best evidence that we've worked in a legitimate way, even though it wouldn't happen if the government broke deadlines because we have to assume that in the future when there's no other solution, there will be a disbandment. We propose that this Law determine that the elections be held within 60 days of the decision of the Administrative Court. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that this law be discussed in the first reading. All comments and proposals will be considered when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34588	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34589	Here is Mr. Secretary of State who said one inaccuracy that it was best to testify that it was legal for the disbanding of municipal units, in view of the disbanding of the unit council of local self-adhesion, because that no decision by the Administrative Court has been abolished or annulled. But here I draw attention again to Mr. Secretary of State with his associates that those municipal councils where the conditions are met, or the Central State Office is deafened for months and months. Therefore, disrespecting the law when it is not done, so the failure of deafness, not just illegal work, because illegal work is even when it is not done, is not responding and therefore legal assumptions have been fulfilled. I don't plead to adopt here. such a proposal but, in any case, it should be decided within the legal time limit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34590	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Committee for Local and Regional, Honorable Commissioner Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34591	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, held at the 24th session on 16 March 2005, discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament on 3 March. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this act as a parent working body. In his opening statement, he explained the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, noting that the proposed amendments and additions to this Act were extended to the work of local and regional self-government units, primarily large cities and counties. The proposal for this Law extends the business of local and regional self-government units to jobs related to the peaceful, unclassified roads, public road maintenance, and the issue of construction and location permits, and other works related to construction. In addition, it was stressed in the opening statement that the solutions proposed by this proposal of the Law represent further strengthening of local self-government in particular those units that have the prerequisites for taking over and doing jobs in a wider range than existing legal solutions. In the debate, most members of the Committee supported the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law, which estimated that the proposed solutions contribute to strengthening local and regional self-government. A positive assessment of the solution is proposed in Article 2 of the Law, which introduces the possibility of granting annual recognitions for best practice in local and regional self-government units of local and regional self-government to contribute to the development and strengthening of local and regional self-government. The opinion of the members of the Committee has been expressed, according to which the solutions proposed to amend and supplement this Act contribute to strengthening the powers of large cities, with the work of large cities, which relate to the maintenance of public roads, the issue of construction and location permits, and other works related to the construction of equal works of the county. In this respect, it is indicated that there is a need to distinguish the powers to carry out operations between units of local self-government and units of regional self-government. It also points out the need for a clearer definition of Article 4 of the Law in the sense that all county centres are defined under major cities. In addition, the debate proposed that in Article 4 of the Law, instead of the proposed 40,000 inhabitants, the large cities make up cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants. In the opinion of part of the Committee members, it is necessary to review the solution proposed by Article 10 of the Law, which suggests that the heads of the Board may be members. The need for a review of the proposed solution relating to the supervision of the legality of the general acts of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government is also indicated. In this respect, an opinion under which no decision is acceptable under which the head of the Office of State Administration in the County is authorised to take a decision to suspend the application of a general act adopted by the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government. In view of the solution proposed in Article 20 of the Law, according to which units of local and regional self-government under the specific Act will take over the tasks carried out by public administration offices in the counties, the opinion has been expressed that the sources of funding for these transactions need to be defined. In addition, an opinion has been put forward in view of the expansion of local and regional self-government units, proposed by this proposal for a law, which should propose amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government in order to ensure appropriate financial resources in addition to the transfer of transactions from the State Administration to units of local and regional self-government. The debate concluded that, in line with the guidelines set out in the decentralisation framework programme for the period 2004-2007, a new Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government should be joined. Following the debate, the Committee concluded by majority that it would propose a next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government is adopted under 1. In addition, under the second opinion, the comments and proposals presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final proposal for the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34592	Thank you. You can stay. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34593	Dear Vice President, dear assistant. We at the SDP Club must unfortunately conclude the following. That the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were promised that when the next local and local elections were first held, they would go out and directly elect mayors, mayors and mayors. And second, that until that time, so until the local elections to be held on 15 May 2005 will be held or a further step will be carried out in the decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, neither, and what is in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, has been implemented. And it is obvious that in these local elections citizens will not be able to directly elect the mayors, mayors and mayors and it is obvious that since 2001 when the first decisive step of decentralisation has been made there is no continuation of that decentralisation. And no matter what we say today about this Law talking about decentralisation, further decentralisation, that this step, that this Law, the bill, speaks of further strengthening of local self-government units, must be determined that the basic act that should be talking about decentralisation, which is the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 does not foresee an increase in funds for local self-government units. That budget projections by the end of the term of office do not foresee an increase in funds for the needs of local self-government units. So if we even pass a law like this, it will in no way mean that decentralisation is continued and it will not mean that the strong fiscal capacity of local self-government units by decentralising common taxes. It is possible that the fiscal capacity of local self-government units will increase because units of local self-government will introduce new taxes, impose a tax or impose new burdens on citizens. But the fact is that this government has no intention of giving up part of the common tax in favour of local self-government units. Now the question arises why at this session of the Assembly, we received two laws in the area of local self-government in an emergency procedure, and one law we received in the first reading. Unfortunately, one of those laws that we received in the emergency procedure was withdrawn from the procedure. And we're in a situation today, and I repeat what I said this morning that we have 52 days until we hold local elections. That we have 22 days to call local elections without our citizens knowing a few basics. Our citizens do not know what law they will choose, our citizens still do not know how many and which units of local self-government they will be and our citizens do not know what powers their units of local self-government will have after the elections are held. The question arises whether all these issues will be resolved and resolved before the local elections are called, or whether all the issues will be resolved before the elections themselves, or if the citizens will go to elections and when they vote out the people who will lead the cities, the municipalities and the county will then find out what powers these units of local self-government will have. What does this bill bring us? He's bringing us some newspapers that may seem to support. He's bringing us a paper on the introduction of the Best Practice Award. It brings us a newspaper about big cities, brings us a newspaper about the constant education of employees and subsistence in local self-government, and indeed no one should have any serious objections against it. We can talk about what should be the limit of great work, but we should essentially not have any serious objections. However, we at the SDP Club have an observation as to why we are getting such partial amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government if the Union of Cities tried to refer to the parliamentary procedure a bill adopted by the agreement of members of the Union of Cities and I must say that the law was written by both former ministers and current ministers. Therefore, the people who run these units of local self-government or led, but unfortunately the parliamentary majority did not even allow the law to enter the procedure, but we told it on the parent committee that we would refer it to the state office and let the state office consider it. I must conclude that unfortunately the state office did not consider this bill of law which is therefore the law proposal of those who are most interested in this law and because then would have got a full law on local self-government that we all expected. Here in this law, I must also say that we, for example, have a proposal for a law on large cities proposed by colleague Zlatko Kramarić. The question arises if this law is one of the most important things that these amendments and amendments introduce the term of large cities and the status of large cities why we have not united the debate and Kramarić's proposal of the Law on Great Cities, so let's see what's good there and, perhaps, put it into this bill, but unfortunately, it is not known at all when this bill will come to order. We also have a proposal to amend and supplement the laws he has given in the selection and appointment procedure that has been waiting for months to come. I don't know why we didn't discuss it now or why the simple board or the government didn't say it had to be withdrawn. Now, that makes this law concrete. There's talk of defining the status of big cities. On the one hand, I can agree with that. On the other hand, I can't agree with that. And so far, the law has defined Article 20 that cities that have more than 30,000 inhabitants can take over jobs, pardon Article 21, so cities that have more than 30,000 inhabitants can take over jobs from the districts. Therefore, if we want to talk at that level, we have to date had special cities or cities with the status of large cities. Why has it not happened so far that no such city has been entrusted by the county or the state with doing these jobs, that is another question. Now the question arises if we have so far had cities with 30,000 inhabitants who had this special status why we are raising the border to 40,000 inhabitants. So why didn't we define a big city as a city with 30,000 inhabitants and a county headquarters, even though the State Secretary in the opening statement said that this should not be understood in the light of this law. In light of this law, it explicitly states that large cities are cities with 40,000 inhabitants. It is because county headquarters are entrusted with some business from the county districts that are taxed here, but Article 21 says big cities are cities with 40,000 inhabitants, so definitely large cities of 14 of them, so we have 14 cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants are big cities. We also have seven cities between 30,000 and 40,000 inhabitants and we do not see any obstacle that those who have so far had this status to which we have transferred certain decentralised functions do not have it in the future. What do we give new jobs to big cities? We're giving them the kind of traffic they've had so far because cities have made decisions on regulating traffic in the local self-government unit, we're giving them public road maintenance, which they can de facto assume that the county was ready to hand over these jobs to them. However, I must tell you that public roads include highways. Does this mean that a large city will be able to get to maintain for example both the highway and the fast road because the Law on Public Roads says so. And of course, issuing building and location permits is some kind of real transfer of some kind of business from the state administration to big cities. However, the question arises here who in large cities will maintain unclassified roads because unclassified roads are said to be maintained by cities and municipalities but large cities are not said to maintain unclassified roads. And the Law on Public Roads said that unclassified roads aren't public roads. So who's gonna keep unclassified roads in big cities? And in large cities there are unclassified roads. I also bring, put here, prescribe from the old law fire and civil protection which we think would be more logical, for example, to write protection and rescue because in the meantime we passed the Protection and Rescue Act. So it could just be there. So here, in the municipalities and cities, we enter only what some other laws have been assigned to municipalities and cities to do, and in large cities here are one of the questions of who will maintain unclassified roads and lead to a clear definition of who will issue, for example, what building permits in a large city compared to the county. It is said that a single law will after which jobs the county will receive or be entrusted to it. However, it is not said that a special law will determine which jobs the big city will also be able to get to do by the state. So obviously something was wanted to be done here but it wasn't done in any way clearly. We advocate that the great city is defined as a city that has 30,000 inhabitants and the headquarters of the county. So, in one place, the law defines the concept of a big city and then drags it through the whole law, so completely, not every time, it describes what it will be like. What else does this law bring? This law amends Article 46 which speaks of the fact that the headship will no longer have to sit with the council because it has so far been said that Article 46 of the headship of the local self-government unit is elected by the representative body as a rule by its members. We're changing that. But there's another absurd going on. We do not change the article that says that the mayor and the mayor of the municipality are chosen as a rule from the holder of the list and this bill we received at the moment when the Law on Elections was amended in the local self-government which said that the holder of the list could be anyone. Therefore, if we said at that point that the holder of the list could be anyone then it was logical that this law foresees that he must not be the candidate of the list as well as the mayor, or rather the mayor, than it could be anyone, in which case he could be the first on the list, or he could be someone who has not even run as we are here in this Act, in this bill of law, so we define that a member of the headship could be someone who is not even on the list. He was neither running, nor was he, nor was he a candidate in the local elections. Furthermore, this law does not address the question of the status of the head, because we in the SDP believe that the headmasters should not be members of the headship. In fact, this Law defines members to be appointed headmasters. If the directors are appointed headship, then the question arises how will the headships made up by the heads appoint themselves and whom they will answer. And whom they will answer to and whether we will not then be in a position to actually be managed by the leaders who were not in the elections and not by the ones who were indeed in the elections. In fact, we believe that until now, the law has been an extremely bad solution to control the legality of general acts, because even so far it could have been the central body of the state administration, today, this proposal now transfers it to the state administration's office in the county. I believe that no one, i.e. the SDP Club, can make a decision other than the administrative court that a general act adopted, for example, by the County Assembly, is in accordance with the Constitution and the Law. Therefore, we ask that this change be made to say here that the head of the State Administration's office can launch an administrative dispute because it believes that some general act is not in accordance with the Constitution and with the law but it is unacceptable for any individual to be placed above the example of the County Assembly of the City Council or the Municipal Council. So we're asking that a representative of the state has the right to launch a administrative dispute, but there's no right to suspend the application, of the application, of that act. And just as much further analogically, we need to see what's going on with individual cases. So, we at the SDP Club cannot be satisfied with this Bill Proposal, we ask the Government to withdraw this Bill since it does not apply to this financial year or to these elections, and by the end of this financial year it proposes to this Parliament a new whole text of the law on local self-government that will be in line with what the Government has proposed to this Parliament in its programme, which means a further step in decentralisation and powers and fiscal decentralisation. In fact, the proposed text of the law only deceives that something in the area of local self-government is done and that is done here at this pre-election time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34594	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34595	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mršić has, as usual, expressed a considerable number of incorrect allegations, for a short period of time, only to show myself to the three most important. First, it is an incorrect assumption that the Union of Cities has referred to the procedure of the Law, the Union of Cities cannot refer to our Rules of Procedure in the Law which Mršić, as chairman of the Committee, should know, that the Government, MPs, can only give an initiative, an incentive, and you, as SDPs or someone else, should have referred it to the procedure. Furthermore, the wrong thing is that the Law on Protection and Rescue is a regulated issue of fire protection and civil protection, but it is not a special law on fire protection and the Civil Protection Act. Furthermore, it's incorrect that it usually means that it has to, it doesn't, then it's written as a rule means it can be exceptions. So I wouldn't move on because I don't have much time for what he said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34596	Thank you. The word on behalf of the SDSS has a distinguished representative, Milorad Pupovac. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative, Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34597	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government should define the competences of local units and mechanisms of control and supervision of the legality of their work, as well as the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation and control mechanisms. An irrationally large number of units of local self-government and employees in its various administrations, the administrative authorities were important and directly affected by the level of public spending. On the other hand, the centralisation of many administrative bodies prevented the effectiveness of the work of the local self-government body. Indeed, the existing system of funding units of local self-government is extremely inappropriate since it prevents the development of municipal infrastructure and as such is unable to meet the basic needs of citizens in the field of health care, social care, employment, education, culture and environmental protection. The Proposer Amendments and additions to this Act emphasises the promotion of best practices in local and regional (regional ) self-government and the motivation of local self-government units in implementing the above-mentioned practice without defining in this proposal what is good and what is, in their opinion, best practice. It is proposed to establish large cities and define their detours. In fact, the proposal is that the status of a large city has cities of more than 40,000 inhabitants who are both economic, financial, cultural, health, transport, centres and hold the wider development of the region. With this proposal, these large cities would take over some of the jobs from the districts, so the issue of construction and location permits and other works related to the construction of these documents on spatial planning. The promoter has not previously given an assessment of the current situation, so some county centres with 8 or 10 thousand inhabitants will take over the mentioned jobs from the districts and some cities that are not county centres and have slightly less than 40,000 inhabitants and at the moment already have public administration offices and are doing business in the district area, the question arises whether these cities will be affected by the application of this Act because they do not meet the criteria of losing these mentioned offices. We also disagree with the SDP Club's proposal that large cities be those cities over 30,000 inhabitants. We believe that this is not a good criterion because some cities with 31 thousand inhabitants who do not now have state administration offices on the proposal to get it and some of the towns with 29 thousand inhabitants, let's take an example of the city of Petrinja, which has at the moment all the offices of the state administration, has its own cadastre, has its own court, has its own grantovnica, so all the jobs in the district are done but there are no 30,000 inhabitants, we wonder if the city of Petrinja will lose and lose these additions to these changes. The proposal to amend and supplement this Act gives the possibility to hold meetings of representative bodies apart from being public and publicly voted on with the possibility of voting on certain issues in secret. We're wondering where it exists and who knows that kind of practice? On whose behalf the councilmen would vote... It is quite logical and acceptable that members of the Headship should be elected by the representative body on the proposal of the President of the Headship, but it is totally unacceptable that members of the Headship may also be the heads of the Board because we in Croatia have the right to hold that these are two incompatible duties, because in that case, the heads as members of the Headship would be the ones who would give themselves authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The leaders don't make politics. They're running politics. They are professionals employed by the basis of a public tender. That's why we keep HSP that's what they need to stay. The Croatian Party club supports this Law proposal that officials in local and regional (regional) self-government have permanent professional training and training through courses and various seminars. education and schooling but it is unacceptable to use permanent verbs in this respect because the question arises when would the application of this and this law start because these changes and additions are not defined deadlines. As a conclusion, this is not about some major changes and additions to this law. We prefer that there are some nomotechnical changes, such as, instead of words, local self-government, the words of municipalities and cities are introduced. And these changes and additions actually only define large cities as units of local self-government. In order to further decentralisation of local self-government, the HSP Club proposes that we adopt a new and better quality Law on local, regional and regional self-government. Finally, I must say that both this Law and the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are passed before the local elections themselves, and we rightly hold in HSP that this is a kind and way of electoral engineering. But there is no such engineering or electoral engineering that can reduce the rating and election success of the Croatian party of rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34598	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the honourable representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34599	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Trčević is constantly doing this in several debates, and it seems to me so far that the current counties or cities are issuing construction permits. This is completely incorrect especially is it dangerous to speak before the local elections because the only city in Zagreb has the offices of the state administration in its operation. All other counties mean building permits to issue public administration offices and outposts that exist. Not at this time, not a single county does so in the Republic of Croatia. That's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34600	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the IDS the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34601	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, the distinguished gentlemen of the MPs, what is important in this law? First, a certain decentralisation is being carried out in the field of the issue of construction and location permits. Secondly, as everyone said about it although I do not hold it and do not see it as the most important problem of the functioning of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. So the concept of big cities is being introduced. And third, it returns in some way to the headship's structure which was worth until 2001, more specifically, that a member of the headship might also be the head. What is interesting, however, is that this Law does not follow the Law on the financing of local self-government, because you will all agree that this new detour that is now being passed on to local self-government costs. One word says someone should pay for it. That these jobs have so far been carried out by the state or the state administration and financed, and that now leaving these jobs to local self-government will need to find anger at that level. So if you're already laying down some powers, then Mr. Secretary of State, put the money down on that level that's about to start. The biggest illogicality of this Act, however, is the one expressed in Article 12, which is that the supervision of the legality of the general act adopted by the representative bodies in the self-rule by the public administration offices in the counties with a clear central state administration. It's so simple that gentlemen can't stand. It is not disputed that the supervision is carried out by the state or central administration. It's not disputed, but it's disputed that people at the level of so-called. County offices. Those decommissioned bodies of the state government. Nor do these decommissioned authorities have the legitimacy of citizens. Each government has so far set itself up at that level a position that is loyal to it and the IDS advocates it to be that supervision is entrusted to the central government, and that as many jobs as possible, along with an adequate law on the financing of local self-government of states, are transferred to the county. It's absurd to have counties, for example. Istria was not possible, it was not possible to issue any local or construction permit. On the other hand, it may be better for these bodies, as they are already formed, to remain intact so that large cities and counties name completely new people uncompromised, unsumpted, which is particularly important when this matter is issued by building, location permits by means of. Generally, under quotes he's a low-level crime in the area. And I personally hope that this delicate matter will once again be properly arranged, that it will be possible through the competent city, municipal councils of the County Assembly to monitor the conduct of people working in these services, that local and construction permits will come faster and that the existing monopoly that some people have had in these affairs will finally redistribute to those who have electoral legitimacy. More specifically, people with electoral legitimacy mean in these cities, the counties can once begin to monitor what is done in these offices that issue local, construction permits and then use them there, and so on. It is precisely in that part that if we adopt this Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, a major change can occur, and it should certainly be acknowledged. The state obviously couldn't handle these jobs anymore. She knows very well what's going on in those offices, and now she's letting this matter be handled by local self-government, which I think is right. Earlier, Mr. Meden mentioned that 65% or 66% of local, building solutions issued by the authorities of the state administration were rejected in Istria County or in Istria County. Just what my court should do is that one transitional period should be set for the new bodies to be formed not to block for about 6 months, and perhaps a year to issue these local and construction permits. It would simply be a tragedy, because we will all agree that life in this country cannot stop. Someone might be a little bit happy about it, maybe I would be happy about building by the sea or close to the sea by the way. But bearing in mind, for example, traffic to real estate in Istria with 210 thousand inhabitants is greater than in the city of Zagreb with 800 thousand inhabitants, legal vacuum, i.e. Organizational vacuum, can completely block building activity, which will then lead to a fall in property value by logic, and perhaps in some who have "ordery" papers to a huge collection of exactly their locations. And I'm going to repeat what I said maybe an hour ago, in 99% of cases, that real estate traffic in Istria is being carried out by citizens, the only city that de facto sells something is the city of Pula, as if they know it won't be in power anymore. Which is gentlemen with those who have initiated the process of issuing construction, useful, etc. Permissions? That's very important. This should be settled by my court by the existing bodies in an existing procedure, with the possibility of submitting a complaint to local self-government. If that's not done in one way, we're afraid at the IDS Club there'll be chaos on the ground, where you simply won't know who's drinking, who's paying. And that this will lead to an indirect and total blockade of activities in this building sense that at this time in the territory of the Republic of Croatia take any county, any cities, any state, any foreign investors. And that's why I'm asking you to just keep that in mind. Having also in mind that these jobs, issuing permits cost money. If a number of new people are to be hired, which will re-infect one inflation of additional employment in the administration, the question arises, who should pay for this new administrative activity? Should this be paid by the state or should local self-government pay for it? The state has paid for it so far, which will say that in its budget, it had the means to do so. This will say that these means of security should be left to local self-government. For example, Pazin will be able to carry out these administrative tasks of issuing construction, location, etc. Permission. To assume that Pazin could do this for the field of his work, he would have to hire at least three new people. That gross will have to single out so that this office could function or the department could still function at least 30 thousand kuna times 12 is 360 or maybe 400 thousand kuna, that's 50 or more thousand euros. Through some form, someone would simply have to make up for the city of Pazin, as money has been provided for these matters so far. That's the point. Secondly, why am I going to say this one more time, waiting with the new Law on the financing of local self-government? It is known that the counties are in an absurd situation with budgets moving between 60 million kunas I do not know to that Split County with 550 thousand inhabitants, which may have a budget of 300 or 350 million kuna. The County of Istria, which generates the largest income per capita behind the city of Zagreb, has an autonomous budget of 200 million kuna as the city of Poreč with 50 million kuna credits. The fact that cities have managed to increase budgets, especially those who, for example, have the status of mountainous and mountainous areas or are just by the sea, and the economy is, we have to admit that this country is still recovering something that we see from growth and budget revenues, and that is what will eventually instigate interest and so on. independent lists, which are generally an interesting community, without ideology, but therefore with a huge interest when budgets need to be directed towards their companies' business, that's the point. What Croatia will probably also have to realize soon enough that such a centralised country simply cannot survive. You've figured it out, gentlemen at the ministry, with building permits that the state can't handle these jobs anymore, you'll have to realize that this kind of centralization doesn't have a future. So you're decentralisation the other jobs. Finally, why do you need a whole series of activities that the state simply cannot deal with? Let us take an example of how the local self-government defined it by the 1974 Constitution at the time Croatia had the fastest growth rates and the fastest development rates and was most decentralised. At that time, congregations, municipalities elected judges, elected chiefs of police and head of finance and catastra and heads of the National Defence and Inspectors, etc., and today mayors, mayors, and even large cities, it doesn't matter what we call them, they can't even influence the behaviour of the matriarchs, because they are civil servants. There was no division of large and small towns during that period, there were only municipalities with clearly defined powers and I think that the country was developing in a more comparable manner than it is today. And that this development is largely blocked by this inert state administration, i.e. the desire to rule from one centre throughout the Republic of Croatia, and clearly in those areas where there is no electoral legitimacy. What else do you say? I said, some solutions are solutions that ruled until 2001. What I would like in the IDS is that in order to strengthen local self-government, the decentralisation of regionalization is returning so-called. upper home i.e. County home. The ending of that home was a mistake for us. And in it we should find places and diaspora and some minorities, because it is absurd to say that in the House of Representatives there are people who have achieved 200 votes and there to deal with and decentralisation, the establishment of local self-government and so on. Let's agree on the same thing about the Council's disbandment. Let's make it 10.4. So we know when the election starts. And as for the election, the IDS is absolutely for direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors. Let us oppose the fact that each government is writing its own electoral rules. We are also wondering why 25% of the members of the Council were to be abolished in 2001, in 93, as much as 50% of the councils were elected, and it was certainly the best Electoral Law that the Republic of Croatia has had since the formation of this new establishment of local self-government until today. And it is precisely that eradicating the possibility of a direct election on the ground simply leads to all these possible unnatural situations, coalitions and everything else. I will always defend the thesis that it is better to choose 50% of the members of the list directly than just one mayor and mayor. If we don't clearly define the relationship between him and the Council, although I repeat, if someone at this point were to use the direct election of the mayor, the mayor, then it would be IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34602	Thank you. We finished this morning's session. The sequel is at 3:00 p.m., and it is next on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative, Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34603	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. It is on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34604	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government are being upgraded and improved by the established system of local self-government, which deserves to assess a successful project through current practice so as not to reduce the obligation to create legal and political assumptions permanently to strengthen local and regional self-government. This legislative proposal strengthens these positive tendencies, primarily by institutionalising the annual recognition of best practice in local and regional self-government, which would be allocated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal of the National Alliance of Units of Local and Regional Self-Government. This recognition, apart from the positive incentive effect, implies and undoubtedly useful cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Union of Local Self-Government in assessing and directing the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the proposal contains reflections and a decision to abandon the monotypic model of local self-government which has so far been practiced and consisted in the statusal nivelation of local self-government units regardless of their size, economic, humane, traditional or generally socio-gravity potential. Thus far, all units of local self-government have had the same legal status in relation to higher-level units, i.e. according to central administration authorities and in principle carried out the same tasks. The political model was introduced in this proposal through the concept of large cities that are economic, financial, cultural, health, science and transport centres of the wider environment and have the potential to carry out more jobs than that of local importance. This selectively took a further step in decentralisation of administrative functions and was granted to the objections from the mentioned environments that have so far predonated to do so and to indicate that they have the capacity to assume these obligations. By amending the laws relating to the selection of members of the headship, the round of candidates for executive power was once again fully opened outside the council's circle, which in the present solution was under pressure from reality somewhere there in the sixth month of 2001 later corrected by a credible interpretation of the Croatian Parliament. I appreciate the positive and provision that enables the leaders to be members of the headship because the current interpretation of one actually tense incompatibility in some environments and situations has made it impossible for good and effective organisational-cadroval solutions of the executive authority in local self-government. Articles 12 to 19 of the proposal clearly and balancedly lays down the legal procedure by the national authorities. the supervision of the legality for which real deadlines have been given and confirmed and the inability to assess the relevance of local self-government decisions has been established. Therefore, only the assessment of the legality and not the purpose that confirmed and protected the autonomy of local self-government in the affairs of the self-rule and guaranteed legal, judicial protection against possible arbitration. For the first time, the law establishes an obligation to adopt a strategy and plan for the permanent training and training of local officials as an act of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a proposal from the National Alliance of Local Self-Government Units and the Central Administration Office. Permanent training and training of officials and officials in local and regional self-government would be carried out at a facility for the development of local and regional self-government, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to establish under the provisions of this legislative proposal. This aims to accelerate capacity development for the establishment of efficient and developed local self-government and to increase and expand the ability to establish contacts and strengthen international partnerships. Furthermore, the law does not ignore but explicitly affirms new increasingly present information and communication opportunities, so it legalises them as a means of calling and holding representative bodies meetings by encouraging local self-governments to open up and rules of procedure specify the use of these technical means. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government with those amendments and amendments which are shown to be relevant through the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34605	Thank you. HNS club PGS respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34606	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Let's first look at how we're actually doing these changes, what we've done so far, what we should have done. So in this regard, I will quote some government statements that the government has given to various parliamentary initiatives in recent months, and one of them has also been a proposal for conclusions on the prospects, positions and perspectives of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, which has been proposed by the Club of HNS and PGS and some other parties. In the provisions of the Government, it is appropriate, giving its opinion that the state of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is very bad, which is very clear about the government's evaluations and this material that we have, therefore, in the light of this Bill proposal, and in the government's view of September 2, 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will say 90 days ago, as proposed in the conclusions, propose laws concerning the reform of local self-government. So, it's September 2nd, 90 days was supposed to be December 2nd, and we've long gone from March 2nd, so the government not only didn't suggest it earlier, but said it itself set a deadline but it also broke that deadline in 100 days, so as some colleagues said here today, not 50 days, or 50 days before the local elections. This opinion is signed by the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, so at least if there is no power to make certain opinions of the Government come true then it should protect the Prime Minister from signing documents that say things that do not stand, which will not be realised. Similarly, in the opinion signed again by the Prime Minister, it is said that election legislation in the Republic of Croatia has a significant and comprehensive reform ahead, but before the reform it is necessary to carry out a broad expert but public debate on all relevant factors, so that the dominant electoral legislation is updated to make it fully compatible with the theory and practice of countries with a long-standing democratic tradition. It's in the government's opinion signed again by the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, and we have what we have. We have these three proposals that can't be called local self-government reform. If the reform of local self-government does not occur before the local elections, then it is most likely to expect that they will not be at all. The issue is the meaning of a reform that does not occur and applies immediately when establishing representative bodies, which means after the elections. A matter that the government will have priorities to enter into some comprehensive reform of local self-government when the election for local self-government will no longer be. Therefore, neither of this position signed here by the Prime Minister answers the parliamentary question that we need a comprehensive debate, that we will carry out this reform unfortunately there is nothing, therefore we are entering local elections, definitely without much more significant reform of local self-government, and that is how I think it is clear from the proposal of these three laws, or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, therefore there is no full change in the model of local self-government. The reason behind this Law states that the government accepted the national programme of work for the local self-government area on 6 October of last year, that the government accepted the framework programme of decentralisation from 2004 to 2007 and that the Commission for decentralisation was appointed, and that the Croatian Parliament had no information about it and that the Croatian Parliament had not participated in this. For the past 10 years or 15 years, I do not know what strategies have not been developed by this Croatian Assembly, and there has never been a full debate on local self-government and the local self-government development strategy. The second question is that these strategies have often not been respected, but local self-government is a very important segment of the political segment of the country and it is really not appropriate for the government to adopt a national programme of work for the local self-government, a framework programme of decentralisation, and in fact the Croatian Parliament has not been consulted at all, the Croatian Parliament did not have information about it, it did not discuss it and then, in the opinion of the Government, it talks about how a broad expert and public debate should be carried out by all relevant factors. I guess the Croatian Parliament is the most relevant factor that should be discussed and then verified, i.e. set up this framework programme or national work programme for the area of local self-government. In these circumstances, of course, it is clear that the Government is improvising, that the Croatian Parliament has been neglected, and from the very content of this law as well as these two other laws of one that was discussed here, the other is also withdrawn but will then appear before us again. It is clear that on local self-government, on reforming local self-government, local self-government as an important area of political life, the country is speechless. In this regard alone, I will consult some of the provisions of this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, i.e. the proposal itself, the amendment and the addition of this Law, and it will clearly show that these changes are both in their scope and in their quality such that no reform of local self-government can be discussed at all. And I think that government, as in many other areas, I'm going to say, is actually sending signals like something more serious is being done, and actually the government is being held on the surface and there is no power or willful entry into more serious procedures in any area, and I think it can be said for the field of science and education, and it can also be said for the area of economic life of the country, tax policy, here it can be said very clearly for the area of local self-government. As far as we are in the state of the unit, as far as local self-government is concerned, we should also say that the Republic of Croatia is probably one of the most centralised member states of the Council of Europe, and we are probably in the last place by centralisedness or decentralisation in relation to the member states of the Council, the member of the European Union, so those integrations that we so wish to be a member. For almost 10 years, the Republic of Croatia has spent about 14% of all its public revenues on all its costs for local self-government. And that number almost doesn't change. By 1%, I think that figure has increased in recent years, but the rise in the state budget is a danger that this figure will return. We are constantly spinning around these 14% and the average of the member states of the Council of Europe is somewhere around 25% of public revenues and public expenditure is being spent or, at the level of units of local self-government and some of the most developed countries, which are the most often Scandinavian countries in this segment, spending, or, that is, collecting about 50% of all public revenues in the area of local self-government units. This is the data which speaks very clearly of our Croatian underdevelopment, local self-government, if we add to it the fact that out of 14% of these 14% is almost 7% of the city of Zagreb, then it means that all of our counties, all of our cities large and small, all of our municipalities spend a little more than 7% of our public income which really speaks of lagging behind, the lack of development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. And that is one fact which disqualifies us also in the eyes of that Europe. The Republic of Croatia has accepted a local self-government European, a Charter of Local Self-Government with a large number of exceptions. Some elements, some parts of this charter are broken even when proposing these laws. For example, when the competences of local or regional self-government units are brought down, appropriate funds must be put down. There is no such thing here, and as far as can be seen from these materials is not consulted, as is also the provision of the European Charter of Local Self-Government or the Association of Units of Local and Regional Self-Government. If this association is consulted, or the Alliance of Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, it is then, that association gave a negative opinion on the proposal of this Act because here the figure for obtaining the status of a large city is at least unclear what it means by our laws but it is some demarcation line, rising from 30,000 which is the position of the Alliance of Cities and municipalities to 40,000. This association is therefore neither consulted nor gave a negative opinion on this proposal. And consulting and obtaining an opinion, and then probably in most cases and respecting that opinion is one of the very important provisions of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. So we also see that we actually accept documents, we accept charters, we accept European standards nominally, and we actually try to play them. And there's no need for that. I think the Republic of Croatia is matured for a stronger procedure in the area of local self-government. That's why we don't need anything else than what we have. Only most of the funds need to be put down, most of the powers to the areas of local self-government, and what is therefore about these laws is indeed just symbolic. Unlike these other two laws that may be called anti-European laws, this law is not, but its movements in terms of European solutions are minor, almost non-existent, and of course I repeat that there will probably be no new opportunities until the next, not these next but those local elections there in 2009. By then, our local self-government will be as developed as it is now undeveloped, and we will likely find ourselves in terms of European countries that are moving forward in this sense, certainly even deeper at the beginning of countries with regard to the development of local self-government. What exactly is there to say about these laws? When it comes to the new powers of local self-government units, it's only actually a matter of travel in peace. So it's parking and maintenance of unclassified roads, but of course there's this famous provision that this issue will be resolved by special laws. So these specific laws can solve this issue differently, and they'll probably solve it that way, and why I'll say something about it a little later. It's the same with big cities. The same is said here about issuing construction and location permits. It is not clear whether citizens will have enough power to do so, and it is equally said about the maintenance of public roads, but yet it is not clear what these special laws will say since the counties of this hour actually have the only conditions for maintaining unclassified or public roads. So these laws can actually fully derivate this change that is trying to set itself more declaratively than really in this law of ours. And that all of this is so that there is no big change in this, or almost no change, is in the reasoning of the law when it comes to how much money it will take to implement this law, so it says that it will take a million kuna to implement this law, yes, exactly how much it takes for the academy to function for the development of local self-government, which means that the State budget remains what it is, and that also means that the budgets of the units of local self-government remain as they are. Without the fiscal regulation that will follow this Law, these laws remain a dead letter on paper. Therefore, there is no saying that units of local self-government could participate more seriously on these two responsibilities that result in the maintenance of unclassified road units of local self-government and cities, or large cities in public road maintenance, because new laws, and that is, by force of opportunity, this means insufficient money, in fact, so that these jobs will continue to run counties which, of course, is not the intensity of those flows in the local self-government that we need to follow. Therefore, on the basis of all of this on behalf of the Club of HNS and PGS representatives, they can only show regret that we have missed one chance for a more serious reform of local self-government, that these opportunities will probably not be until 2009 when there will be another local elections and that in such a way and in this segment, unfortunately we have only declared ourselves Europe, and we are really moving away from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34607	Thank you. HSLS, LS and DC representatives' club. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34608	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In the first reading, the DC DC of HSLS and LS will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, however, I am obliged here to make several remarks in fact several doubts about some of the solutions that have been given here in these articles of amendments and addition of this Act, so we would ask the Proposer that these remarks be made to the second reading. Article 4 speaks of large cities and Article 7 mentions that in fact a large city means a city that has forty thousand inhabitants means that it does business for municipalities and cities, as a kind of community of municipalities and cities in one area. The very notion of being such a euphoria when someone big has to be something contentally large, not just by, in shape. So our basic grudge is that it's not quality here defined what is actually a big city? Is that one, one urban unit that has a lot of inhabitants, or 40,000 inhabitants? Is this an urban environment that has developed economic capacities, cultural and other? Could it be the middle of one that has a large number of unemployed or has a large number of problems or, say, has a large number of refugees and exiled people? So that's, this notion of a big city can be interpreted differently if you take just formally that it's an urban environment with a basic qualification that it's 40,000 inhabitants. Furthermore, these solutions are suspected of duplicating jobs between large cities or counties, i.e. the question arises whether the large city represents a demonstration of the relevant functions of the county and that these functions are delegated to the large city. We are afraid that if there is no quality demarcated jurisdiction of large cities and counties that in practice there will actually be situations that will have to be addressed and arbitration. The law better be clear at first so there'll be fewer problems later. In Article 8, we would really welcome this article because it is in this way that at the levels of local administration and self-government it is in some way encouraged to use information and technology. Our entire society is, in terms of the use of information technologies, undeveloped in, largely illiterate. It's one of our great social handicaps. In this way, however, we will encourage people in local administration and self-government to use a little bit of information technologies and, say, even if in the world it is known, and at the level of certain companies, to hold conferences, meetings through video links or tele-mitting or tele-learning. This means one incentive for the local community to start to encourage and develop and use information technologies, the Internet and so on and so on. It is defined here in Article 10 that the headmasters may be members. We're wondering how meaningful that is, is that actually a good solution? If not a member of the headship and he is also the headmaster, he is in fact preparing complete matter material, from the area for which the head is in charge. And he's the one in charge making decisions. We don't know if that's the best solution. Article 13 states that the municipal chief and mayor of the mayor are obliged to deliver the statutes of office to the head of the Office of State Administration, in the county within 8 days of the date of adoption of the general act. It seems to me that this kind of solution about the head of the state administration actually promotes a kind of governor. One piece of provision at the level of the local community. So let's just say that there's the mayor, the mayor, for the whole term of office, that they don't come into a position, let's say they find themselves in a position to meet, say, a competent minister. All this will be settled by Mr. Honorable Head of State Administration's office. In accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 348, 30.12.2014, p. 1). That is, if the central authority of the state administration decides to suspend the assessment through an unconstitutional suspension, the decision of the president will be lifted. Since we have so many experiences in the functioning of these relations between the current level, therefore, the president and the local administration, I am afraid, however, that we should define a kind of sanctions. What will happen if the head of state's administration comes in line with such misjudged and unfounded assessments and evaluations and a chaotic state is created at the level of the local community. I think maybe we should look for a more effective solution here. If the point is to reduce the impact of the state administration's awareness of local community functions on the mayor's relations, the head of state administration, the mayor, I agree with that, however, it seems to me that the state actually wants to delegate a lot of these functions to take down part of its responsibility in this way by giving these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34609	Thank you. Honorable representative Zeljko Pecek Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34610	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting to watch this work of ours lately taking place in the Parliament where we actually have too few laws that have the law of the European Union, and too many of those that actually serve daily political needs. And it's probably one of those that you can estimate is this one. Because given some new decentralisation and support to local self-government, we are again giving false messages to citizens unless they understand what is the tendency of this law. I mean, we're giving false messages to voters. It is a particularly interesting explanation that we can see here in the draft amendments to the law, where we are referring to the standards of the European Union, so we mention that in 97 we signed the Charter of Local Self-Government. However, we do not say anywhere that we have actually accepted the minimum of this charter in order to sign and apply it. And we say nowhere since 97, so far, we haven't changed anything more seriously and moved what's most important is that we don't have Croatia defined as a country of the region, nor in this bill, which means we won't be able and we can't use access funds and numerous other foreign donations, which are currently heading towards regional centres and towards such parts of the territory of the state. What is particularly worrying in the present state is the intertwination between the county and the state administration in the work. It's the same between the county, the cities and the municipalities. And we don't have that defined relationship at all, especially as far as big cities are concerned. What we should change, and this is too much of a municipality's delicacy, which is a restriction in their fiscal capacity, makes it impossible to develop, and in development we also lack people, we lack people so that this potential is also bad. However, what the legislator actually offers us through this solution. The government's contributions to larger units and cities. And the behaviour of state bodies with the best practice program. It also offers to establish an institution for the development of local and regional self-government. And only at the end on the dropper along the way offers us a stronger state surveillance which is to say, completely inappropriate. And the focus here is quite strong, where the local representative of the state administration can go against decisions and acts of the County Assembly and city and municipal councils. Of the 20 articles in this law, in fact, it is about strengthening the state administration, because it is about establishing an institution, granting recognition, training of officials, more supervision while real changes in giving greater authority to cities, municipalities and counties are about the communal order they have been performing so far. It's related to the rest of the world, to the maintenance of unclassified roads. And actually the only news we see here is the issue of construction and location permits in the area of big cities. But these new opportunities also mean new obligations, especially financial ones, because cities will have to take over both people and personnel. The state administration will have to provide them with salaries, and other material conditions. And it will be an additional burden for local self-government because we see in the budget money for at least this year for these purposes is not secured. An additional possibility is the maintenance of both public and unclassified roads, however, there are many dilemmas here as well. If the city is to be engaged in public roads maintenance and if the revenue from the toll charged by the vehicle registration is also used in the current way then the city will have 5% of the roads at the maintenance and will collect 20% of the revenue if the criteria are registered according to the place of residence of the citizens. Actually, things need to be changed strategically here. We need to make a new redistribution of funds between the state and the local self-government units. And that decentralisation must be shared with automation. In other words, Croatia needs real reform of local self-government, and we will do best if we change these laws as soon as possible. Or we go out with a new model. What is certainly missing from Croatia is fiscal regionalism. We are missing one among the inter-agency transfers to financing public needs and this system is not fully developed. I believe there's no reason for him to be like that. And what the HSS stands for, and I would ask the legislator of this law to consider that possibility is giving additional authority or opportunity to municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants to form their own headship. In fact, this operation through the council is strange, often in nature it is difficult to behave in this way. We have proposed a special law which would precisely if the municipality wanted to install it into the statute the possibility to form and headship in such settlements, since the amendment proposal cannot be proposed just as the legislator should consider this possibility in order to improve even more quality work at the level of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34611	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34612	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honored secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The government's election promise one strategic orientation between many things was decentralisation. That is why we all expected, with full right, that on these issues, this set of laws that we discussed and just discussed in this regard will be a significant step. Fortunately, the government withdrew this legislative proposal on amendments and additions to the law on selecting members of representative bodies because we see that it was one step back from the existing situation, not a step forward, nor a promise of direct selection of the leaders of local self-government units. With this proposal for a law that we have recently discussed on the areas of municipalities, districts and cities, we also see one intransparency of treatment to propose establishing new municipalities without being given valid, in fact any arguments, and on the other hand is not satisfied with the demands and initiatives of citizens from individual villages where there is a legitimate reason for this. But it remains to believe that the government will consider this at least on the proposed amendments that the text then improves and removes political speculation about putting things in place as set out in the proposal. As regards this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, it was also high expectations that significant and substantive changes would take place. However, it is a small change. Already here, Mršić, saying on behalf of the SDP Club, noted that it was a great shame why he did not listen to at least a voice, and there are various political options of the alliance of cities which therefore had one quality proposal which we do not know anything about, in which way the Government treated this proposal and whether any of it, from this proposal is obvious that it did not adopt anything, but we do not see an explanation why it is so. One of the pressing changes when looking at this bill, one of the first changes is that the government will award annual recognitions to municipalities, cities and counties for the contribution, development and strengthening of local and regional self-government. If there had been a significant change then this one would have been welcome, but in this one poor change it seems that the Government will be there when it praises a successful municipality, city or county, that it is an opportunity to promote itself without any merit rather than as it has already been suggested here to give up that one at least fiscal part if it wants to help the units of local self-government. Unfortunately, here we are witnesses, here we are in the second financial year that for many counties there are double cuts in funding, and before that first budget even four times. Countys where donations are given for certain jobs, precisely these municipal jobs, for municipalities and others, and settlements that cannot ensure normal functioning. So he's acting on that old Roman principle, praising the other one, I'm basically praising myself. But here we have really two good progresses, I would say, in doing jobs, i.e. in expanding the possibility of part-rounding the business that is given to large cities and perhaps it doesn't matter whether it's cities of 30 or 40 thousand jobs. It is certainly to praise this provision in Article 4 where the issue of building and location permits and other works related to construction is just now given to large cities. It is certainly one of our burning problems, and it is a job that will now be left if such a proposal remains, so where the possibility is given to large cities to do these jobs is certainly for those close to the direct seekers of this need to issue building and location permits. However, immediately of this problem, by expanding the possibility of a part-round business that will carry out large cities, so whether it will be with 30 or 40 thousand inhabitants is less important, but there will inevitably be a conflict of jurisdiction between the county and the cities, because the law equally permits large cities and counties to carry out these tasks. And that is only when he says, in his sentence in Articles 5 and 7, that large cities or counties can do these jobs if they are qualified. Who will resolve the conflict, the positive conflict of jurisdiction, remains also an unresolved issue. And it is certain that it will be for business as well as certain incomes to come to an imminent conflict between the county and the cities. In any case, it may be read from this that surely we will not experience joining the European Union with such a large number of counties. But in any case, if it's already one tendency to do so, it doesn't have to mean anything wrong, but this acute problem that's certainly going to appear should be predicted by the mechanism of its resolution. I believe that a step back is the fact that members of the Headship are elected by a representative body on the proposal of the President of the Headship, while the existing legal option was generally just out of its ranks. In this way again, although in practice it was also to conclude what was happening that essentially this legal possibility which so far provided by law to become an exception it was essentially in some environments a rule rather than an exception. So now we have an unequivocal law clearing up this situation, and we've made it right, we're one step further from that constitutional decree about the election of members of the representative body, that this is also the way when the election and the Headship are somehow further away from identifying those people who are going to enter the municipal city council tomorrow or the county council and tomorrow perhaps behave executive power in those units of local self-government. This continues to be an even further distant and vague criterion for citizens left to certain political options. As I say, the existing legal regulations, though those who were aware if they strictly adhered to the law, then the law allowed them only some exception but not a rule. It is certainly good to run and take care of training and professional training of officials in local and regional (regional) self-government and, as far as I can see, the initial funds of a million kuna are provided, this is also proposed that the cost of adoption of this law will be quite, approximately, in that amount. I think they're not enough, if we see that other part of the business and those changes that follow this law. However, I believe that it is necessary to perform more rigorously with regard to the obligation of professional training. Therefore, it is not enough to make such a declaration only to encourage officials in local and regional (regional) self-government, it should be their obligation when the conditions are met, i.e. when that unit of local self-government is qualified to send these officials and subsistences to education, i.e. to a seminar or to say some professional education. So it cannot be left to the will any more than it is an integral part of their obligations. What seems to me to have been changed and what practice says should have been changed unfortunately is not, so I will warn you. The provision of Article 84 of the existing law does not change, and I think it is necessary. If for a disbanded unit, the representative body of the local self-government unit is set a time limit when it can be addressed to the Administrative Court, if it is also an obligation of the Administrative Court, so we have made a legal commitment to the Administrative Court within which the deadline must be demonstrated, i.e. make a decision then I think it is time for those who intend to discipline others to discipline themselves and to set a deadline for the central body of the State Administration to disband the unit of local self-government, i.e. to act by law when legal conditions are met. I'm talking about the Supreme case again. Let's remember Požega, which was disbanded the next day, we're not going into chronology as it was, so the consequences have shown what was on this thing, but the Supremes are not disbanding, or silence the central state office for eight months on this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34613	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34615	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I support the initiative to pass a law that would introduce large cities but I do not understand why there is no point in Article 4 where it is said that large cities can work, public maritime good management, specifically for all cities at sea, that means that they do not have their coast in Split from Žnjan and to Marijana the city has no jurisdiction, the same is with Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Dubrovnik. I note that everything that's good in these cities has been done in these parts has been done by local people and it's really stupid, irrational, strange however you want those who live here to have no right to have it. I think Article 4 should fix that. It was never Venice, Budapest or Belgrade that any government outside these cities in the Adriatic of Croatia did not do so, it gave no new value to that city, but to those people who lived there, so I think it would be wise to respect it and to introduce it in the second reading. It is also strange and illogical that the article 4 says what large cities have, what they do is not mentioned in the parks of nature. I mention this especially for the city from which I come, from Split, as this concerns Marian, I would like to mention that in the past term amendments to the Nature Protection Act have been adopted, a proposal that allows the local community in this case Split to establish a public institution that would take care of Marian. This now exists under this proposal and according to the amendment and addition of the Nature Protection Act it is abolished because it is actually transposed under this Law on the Protection of Nature to the County that it should have its license and this Law does not really foresee it, I say it is very strange, illogical and unacceptable for us who live, specifically in Split which should have the status of a big city, and you see it not available to its coast, it does not exist to Marijan. Similarly, Article 4 does not mention the protection of cultural and historical heritage in the jurisdiction of large cities. You need to pass a law of peace in the Assembly as it is spoken. Or some field trip broke into the Parliament, I don't know, I can see that big movements are present.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34616	I'm asking you to be quiet. We'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34617	Well, I'll cut two if I have to, so the gentlemen can leave, come and move, lie down, sit down as they please. So, according to this proposal, large cities do not have the power to protect cultural and historical heritage, in Split it is Diocletian's palace, so the core of Split, Zadar, Dubrovnik, and Sibenik would not be in the jurisdiction of these cities even though they would have the status of large cities. Dubrovnik protected its core and during the Dubrovnik Republic I do not understand why it would not be in the jurisdiction and during the Republic of Croatia. Which is why we used to discuss a law regarding local self-government, and it was full of self-government when we said that we were developing self-government so that we would give each and every single unit of locals the right to stand out in the community if they wanted to, and you see there, if it meets the conditions that are proposed, but you see it seems to me that it's much more important to talk about content. Here we have large cities, which really according to this proposal, at least according to what is mentioned in Article 4 simply is not in their jurisdiction what would be logical if it were. If you take Split, in Split are the symbols of the city are Marijan, the cathedral of St. Duje, Diocletian's Palace, the Split Riviera and Hajduk certainly, but he does not enter this law, but you can see that with none of these elements except the football club Hajduk, and that town does not run except the stadium, so it is that the city would not have jurisdiction over its symbols, which is illogical, unacceptable. What about the port administration, which is with the port administration, it has to be in large port cities, it's so in Rotterdam, it's in Hamburg, it's in Genoa, it's in Veracruz, why it shouldn't be in Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, I have no idea, Sibenik, Zadar. It really doesn't make sense that the state administration, so either the county or the state has jurisdiction over these elements and not the city. The natural thing to change this should also change other laws such as the Law on the Sea Good, etc. For me, the real thing is that Zagreb is like the largest city in our city, like the great city that has the status of the county managed to make a ski course on Sljemen, and all the cards come from Croatia, so here we are, but why don't you let us, now I'm telling the promoter that we decide what's going to be on Mariana, a normal thing that won't be a ski course, but there's going to be something that suits the citizens of Split and what they know best. Why this would not be in the jurisdiction of large cities, but this law also does not foresee, nor are those amendments to the laws on the protection of nature where permission of the County is to be sought again, etc. I think it's a developmental thing for these cities, and that's why it takes these changes to be introduced. Countys should carry out tasks of regional importance and it seems to me that when the municipal activities of local self-government units cannot perform independently for financial or any other reason then it is logical for them to be a county. I'm going back to our previous debate we have islands, we have Brač, there are 7 municipalities, many things don't work, and when there was a fire etc. Let's think about maybe what needs to be united and what needs to be done locally. Therefore, inefficiencies and indifference of some major systems that are then dissipated should be overcome by the fact that the county has jurisdiction there. If we have a plumbing and one is the only system, so, as the water system same covers Omiš, Brač, Hvar, Soltu then it seems logical to me that, logically, they don't have those units of local self-government each of their own companies that deal with it but then the county has an organization that would have jurisdiction over all of this. I don't know, I didn't find it, where county is mentioned, environmental protection, I may have predicted, but maybe I haven't, because it's absolutely what I'm talking about, and I absolutely support the initiative to introduce big cities, to make these changes, and I'm glad that there's this initiative, no matter what anyone thinks, here's what I personally support, but I'd like to ask the Proposer to correct some illogical things because what we're going to call ourselves a big city without having either a rival, or a Marian, or a Diocletian palace, I mean we're simply in an impossible illogical situation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34618	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In order to talk about Dubrovnik, counterpart Jurjevic should know something about the same town and how it works and how it takes care of the protection of the monument. The citizens of Dubrovnik and the city as an institution are very concerned and participate through various institutions. First, the citizens of Dubrovnik work very effectively through one association to protect Dubrovnik's most important monument, these are forts, these are walls, so this association has been very effective for decades and have actually cared about monuments through it. In addition, the city has been highly participated in the Institute, in which the co-owner and co-founder together with the state and with the county and significant funds are simply poured into the Institute's reconstruction, and the city actively participates in creating a policy for the protection of these same monuments. Not to mention the conservatory department not to mention that it's under the special protection of UNESCO, etc. To talk about a city, you need to know the facts, first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34620	Thank you. You don't have a chance, you said it yourself. The word has a distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In these 10 minutes, I will use the first three proposals that are not foreseen in this bill, but until the second reading, I hope that Mr. Secretary of State, together with the Government and these proposals, will be carefully considered. Otherwise, I don't see why this law is now before the local elections in the first reading, because it's obvious that its eventual adoption in the first half of this year can't come into effect for two reasons. First, because we do not have a proposal to supplement the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government. In particular, because these areas of decentralisation in construction and location permits are not directly applied until the home or special law governing the area is applied. So that's why we have our first proposal, and it seems to me that you've received such proposals for the last two, three weeks a large number. The municipalities that have up to 3,000 inhabitants are looking for a choice of headship. And indeed this three thousand-numeric border, the numbered one, has nothing to say and it's worth the quality of the work of local self-government. We don't have to order them to, but let's give them a chance like we gave them between three and ten thousand. So if they estimate that their headship is more efficient and that they can act and function without creating new costs, why not. My second proposal concerns a chapter on a law that does not change this time, it is local self-government, local committees. When I spoke about the Law on the area of municipalities and cities, I said that the most common requirements for the formation of new municipalities are because local self-government and in the existing law, but unfortunately in... practice has not yet been used even 50% of what we should and should. So it would be very interesting to see the government's proposal on regulatory local committees, city cotters and quarters, not only in terms of legal personality, but also the right to a jury account and own resources. And the third is related to Articles 84 and 85 of the existing Law which gives the Government the right to disband the representative body under certain conditions, but there is no deadline within which the Government may or must make such a decision. So it can be considered, and in practice we had it, that for the same reasons the government, rather than the representative body disbands immediately, and somewhere it takes even a year for the government to encourage and disband the representative body. And I think it would be convenient to regulate the law for 30 days, 15, 60, some period of age when the government can no longer retroactively disband, if it is not within the appropriate time limit to make such a decision. These three proposals are aimed at improving the work of local self-government, and I don't think they really have anything to do with daily policy. We're just creating even more clarity, order, and pre-known rules that we all stick to the same time. And now a few remarks on the proposed text of amendments and additions. Whether the government will award annual recognitions for good work to some local self-government or we will introduce virtual meetings of municipal councils, it is less important. I'd like to say we're introducing a virtual session of the Parliament, no one thought of that. But I don't think it's important for the development of local self-government that the Municipal Council, for example, hold meetings in the Great Trade through video links. But also that the government will establish a special institution for the development of local self-government near the living community of municipalities and cities and communities of Croatian counties, I don't understand why, if it was thought of developing local self-government. If it's some kind of state-owned new body, then I probably misunderstood the facility. Secondly, what is given authority to municipalities and cities is a novelty, in this Law traffic in the rest and maintenance of unclassified roads. But it's not the new jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, because they've already been established by special laws, we're just putting them into this order. But what particularly falls into my eyes here for the third time is happening, that this law prescribes the authority of the municipalities in primary and health care. Now I ask you to tell me a regulation in the health care and health care system that this Parliament has brought to the previous or current council, which has also transferred one authority of local self-government, i.e. state law or regional self-government to municipalities and cities. Nothing, but nothing at all. In primary and health care, no public or city council can decide under any law. But nothing at all. They told me in 2003 that it says in the Constitution that it must also be written in law. So let's just say that this provision in primary and health care of this law is written just because it says so in the Constitution, but then I guess it's a problem in the areas of health care laws that we didn't anticipate in the home or special laws. Otherwise, I personally find it impossible for municipalities and cities to have the authority of primary health care because we barely brought it down to the level of the region, somewhere it doesn't work. Article 4 of the amendment and addition of categories of major cities. It's a list of powers. But look at the missing item 2 of that article. Both Articles 3 and 5, when a person is allowed to list, end up with the specific laws governing certain activities referred to in paragraph 1. But there's no such thing as Article 4. So when big cities don't refer to special laws. Whether the release of paragraph 2 has occurred in Article 4 of the amendment and supplementation, or whether it is on purpose, I don't know, but I ask you to take a look, because it is perfectly normal that these specific laws give jurisdiction to the municipalities and the city and the county must also apply to large cities as a new category. And there is no such item in this article. In the county, education, or education, became education. The maintenance of public roads is also introduced by law and are given building and location permits. So we are moving from the Office of State Administration to urbanism in the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, i.e. county and cities. The transitional and final provisions say that the counties that take over and the cities that take over take over are objects and people. They don't take over space and technique. I try to simulate this in practice, whether when this law comes into force, whether these officials who are now working in the Office of State Administration will work with chalk and pencil or those computers on which they are now working will move the same furniture and furniture and these same offices and whether they will receive wages on the burden of the existing budgets of the county or otherwise. So in those provisions that speak of taking over officials, deputies, objects, archives, it would also be directed to address the issue of technology that is extremely expensive for the job. I welcome the proposal that members of the headship should not be elected exclusively from the ranks of the representative body, but I am in a dilemma about Article 10, which gives the possibility that the headsmen may be members of the headship and I have no objection. Whether the heads of the competition are elected in a working relationship or whether they become and are elected to the term of office. Because when the head is a member of the headship, he is an official, he participates in the executive regional government. We now have the headmasters who have come to work now, have a pension contract, only if they are not relieved by other reasons. So I'd like to clear this up. The head of the headship is in office and he is in the mandate. There comes another government that doesn't need it or doesn't want it in that headship, it stays or doesn't stay. That dilemma isn't new. It was also present when the law was passed from 2003, 2001, 1997. This solution is not good. If he remains a headmaster with a contract to work indefinitely and enters into the headship. He's reporting in double function. He is also a member of the executive and local official. And it is subject to different legal regulations. Until the second reading, it would be good to really consider such a... The solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both Article 14 of the amendment and of the supplement that speaks of the Head of State Administration and his or her right and obligation to exercise control over the legality of the General Act. Just one sentence, please, Secretary of State, on whose request. We now have, you know, that councilors individually or a group of councilors seek supervision of legality. Under the current provisions of the law, it is unclear whether he must respond to his request or not, and that is why you are showered with a large number of cases and questions. The councilor of the municipality, the city and the county and the citizen has the right to request supervision from him. Then we'll do order and surveillance locally and regionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34622	Thank you. One notice to the members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. A session was called tomorrow at the Ivan Kukuljevic Hall at 9:00. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State! Well, the bill promoter well noted that local self-government units should be encouraged to practice as best possible and it is normal to rely on the National Union of Local and Regional Self-Government. There is something to be said here about the Alliance of Associations of Cities and Associations of Municipalities. If we want to give this alliance a role as a driver of quality work in cities and municipalities, advisers and an alliance that will inform us about the state of the local self-government, then there is something important that needs to be done. The Association of Cities and Associations of Municipalities has very little resources. He's not equipped, so he rarely and occasionally singles out his newsletter. It is not teamed up and regardless of the efforts of a few employees we cannot expect more significant success in educating employees of cities and municipalities, alliances of cities and municipalities. Therefore, it is also normal for it to accept the assistance of non-convincing foreign associations, such as the American and urban institutes, whose staff are conducting training under the same programme under which they educate the most lagging places in Africa and Asia. I think they came to study us more than teach us. We can get out of the role of guinea pigs by establishing the announced Academy of Local Democracy because with studying the world's best systems, we can synthesize the best for us. Many foreigners who visited my municipality were surprised that our largest cities had the same powers as the smallest municipalities. The decentralisation of which 30 cities took over the founding rights primarily of education began to create this difference and this law suggests that cities of more than 40,000 inhabitants take over public roads and the biggest proposed change is in urbanism where so-called. large cities are given the opportunity to issue construction and location permits. Here I am particularly interested in whether we will have two jobs in the same city, one city, and another state, for municipalities around the big city when the city itself establishes its own services. Public road maintenance is also mentioned in counties and large cities, so this should be more clearly defined. Otherwise, large cities are starting to look more and more like counties, so clear demarcation is inevitable because it turns out that we will have an increase in large cities and an increase in the number of counties or counties in the county. Now it is an opportunity to fix and change something that was difficult to do in practice. It is about municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants whose councils were also heads, which is doubtful because the representative body was also executive. Such municipalities have been very difficult to make decisions because there are too many policies in the Council, we know that more parties determine this than policy determines and it is very difficult for any decision to make, it is really difficult. We know what the first council looks like, and if everyone else is like that, it's bad. I propose that in Article 44, only Article 1 "Executive tasks are carried out in the municipality of the municipal headship, in the city's headship and in the county county county (hereinafter referred to as headship)" and nothing further. It is good to amend Article 46 that members of the headship should not be elected from the ranks of members of the representative bodies but I do not think that the heads should be members of the headship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34624	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34625	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be as brief as I can since we've heard a lot of things in this debate. Reading material along this agenda point, and in particular the report from the discussion of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and listening to the course of the debate so far, I feel the need to look at a few details that seem particularly important to me in the draft law. The proposed system of large cities is not applicable to the existing structure of the county. In fact, only the municipal system is being developed and it stagnates the full development of the regional system or county. I do not understand why the Commission for the implementation of the decentralisation Framework Programme for the period 2004 to 2007 appointed by the Government did not consider this bill. Really weird, I don't know what the commission actually does for a living. The increased rights of large cities will bring the counties into a position not to cover their own area in full and the counties' responsibilities will be reduced to the ring area around the big city. In this way it will have no knowledge or influence on some issues that are essential for regional development. I'm going to look back on just some of the concrete solutions that this law offers. I don't think this law includes provisions that are or should be on the subject of separate laws. For example, the adoption of construction and location permits should be regulated by the Law on Construction, Education of Administrative Officers, the Law on Local Servants and Landowners and the like. In addition, part of Article 8 amending Article 37 of the existing text of the law speaks of calling and holding meetings of the representative body of the unit of local self-government by electronic means and thereby unnecessarily impairs business provisions and that question is already regulated in Article 33. Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the amendments relating to Articles 19 and 20 of the current text and to the new Article 19a have mixed categories of activities and activities covered by these activities. For example, maintenance of unclassified roads is part of the municipal system while maintenance of public roads belongs to transport infrastructure. In the opening part of the Bill's proposal, in the section which lists the basic issues which are proposed to be regulated by this Law and the consequences that will result from the adoption of this Law in the first two indents, I quote: "Law definition, encouraging best practice, so as best practices in local and regional, regional self-government.". And secondly: "Motivating units of local and regional, regional self-government in implementing best practice.", finished quote. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Palaric here, because I'd like to hear it and I'd appreciate it if you could explain to me what the concepts of "the best practice" and "best practice" really mean. For this reason, I do not think that this amendment is good and should be withdrawn from the procedure and, instead, according to the provisions of the decentralisation framework programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to develop a completely new law on local and regional (regional) self-government based on the principle of subsidiarity and to make a full reform of local self-government, and to establish clearly the powers and units of local and regional self-government in order not to duplicate and overlap them as seen in some of the powers currently established large cities and compulsory decentralisation of finances as one of the criteria for adapting the state administration to European standards, which would include the adoption of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, respectively (regional) self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34626	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Kramarich. He's losing his word. He's not in the hall. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34627	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So the Law on Local Self-Government and Administration was adopted in 1992 and it established the basis of the local self-government system. It established the competence and powers of the local authorities, their mutual relations and the basics of their financing, or other issues of importance for the operation of local units. At the end of 92 and early 93, other laws were passed that were necessary to begin the operation of local self-government. Over time, certain illogicalities have been removed and the system has been upgraded and improved. The upgrade was achieved by expanding the local unit's business circle and by ensuring a higher degree of independence than the central state government. Whether this process of decentralisation and dissemination of powers was sufficient or not would already have been discussed. One of the goals of reforming the local and regional self-government that is imminent for us, the microphone, is the further process of authority on local self-government units, especially on larger cities as a gravity centre and an economic and financial more significant unit. Further decentralisation certainly requires and further financial decentralisation and additional resources for local self-government units needed to finance additional transactions that they will also undertake to amend the laws. And perhaps a few words about the very text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. We now, in some ways, get three levels of local self-government, one are municipalities and call small or smaller cities, the other are large cities and the third is county as a unit of local and (regional) self-government. I would like to comment on some of the contents set out in Article 3 or so of Article 19, where both municipalities and cities are said to be concerned about performing certain activities and jobs, including social care. I think we should really see and define how a poor or small municipality can lead social policy when it often has even problems to finance those basic jobs, almost problems with functioning and funding itself. Primary healthcare is so far formally regulated as the authority of the local self-government unit but the actual jurisdiction over primary health care still has a county as founder. The issue of education, too, is that school care has been run by the county so far. So yet so far, as it has been said and as explained in the law, we have, in some way, a monotypic concept of the definition of the local self-government unit. In my opinion, cities could take on primary health care obligations so that cities become founders and care for health homes and counties to care for county hospitals, I think it would be an adequate, adequate division. As far as this additional job is concerned, which would now be transferred to the jurisdiction of large cities, i.e. the county, which refers to the issue of construction and location permits, and then to spatial planning documentation. I think there's going to be some kind of illogicality in practice, and I see this illogicality. In fact, the big cities that take over these jobs are also county headquarters. In the same place, therefore, local and construction permits will continue to be issued in only two places, in one place in the city, i.e. in the city administration of the large city for citizens, specific cities and in the county, or in the offices of county offices for those units, citizens of those units of local self-government which are therefore not the area of the big city. So perhaps not in the county headquarters itself, but it is irrefutable that the county and that central administration in the county headquarters will still have to have some employees to deal with the problem and that is being carried out in larger cities. I would also like to comment on an article in the 40th law so far that is not regulated here in amendments and additions, which is about those units of local self-government that have below 3,000 inhabitants. In fact, the current law has been said to be, and so in practice it is that the representative body is also the executive authority. I think that this creates certain difficulties for many small municipalities in functioning because the representative body is still a political body, it is composed of representatives of a number of political parties, I don't want to say anything negative, but I would say in a way that, in many cases, appears as a political debate club and that body needs to make implementing technical decisions and I think that it should return that variant by which, regardless of the size, there is nevertheless an independent executive body but could be regulated by the number of members of that representative body in my opinion why not three people as members of the headship. So it wouldn't be a big cost but it would be much more operational and much less trouble in practice doing those everyday jobs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official And he says, the leaders may be members of the headship if it is prescribed by law or by the statute of the unit of local or regional self-government. I would now not even define whether variant A or variant B but, in any case, clearly define the position of the headmaster, i.e. much clearer than it is here in this proposal. Namely, the leaders who are now operating in local and regional self-government units were accepted by the basis of the competition and they actually have a working relationship on indefinite times. If they were to go on a variant that they would be members of the headship of them, then they would choose a representative body. So either the county congregation or the council of municipalities or the city. Then they must lose that status. Thus, with the change of government, they would then or with changes leave the workplace and that transitional period, if we remain in this provision, then we should define why these people are. I am personally prone to the possibility that the mayor, the mayor or the mayor have a person and chooses associates with whom they will be able to cooperate and with whom they will be able to implement that policy when I say politics, I don't mean political decisions but therefore do those jobs that they think are priorities, namely the jobs they have offered in their pre-election programmes. So here I'm just saying that I think that we should then decode, correctly and clearly define what happens to the headmaster because this variant here, which remains an absolutely vague situation, what happens to the heads. Finally, Article 20 states that the units of local self-government that have been assigned to the current public administration’s affairs will take over official and case files and documents, but what is the most important units of local self-government will also have to take over the sources of funding so that those jobs that are additionally obtained by this law can be carried out. I hope it will be regulated by the law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Lastly, in Article 21, I also think that it should be clarified that this provision, which has been applied to this law since the date of the official results of the first subsequent regular elections for members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. That should be explained because I don't know what the provision means. I think that after the debate in this first reading, the proposer will also be able to come to a better conclusion and proposal and respect these proposals and take them into account in the final proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34628	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Ivanis. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34629	Mr. Vice President, I would like to point out that I personally support the proposals that we have the opportunity to read in the very draft of the law. However, allow me to look back at certain legal institutes which, in this sense, is a proposal of law and practice that we have had in the past four years to analyse. First, I would refer to Article 53(4), which regulates actually one specific relationship, the relationship in the city's municipal county administration of the headmaster, which Mr. Jelkovac was just talking about. The very provision of this article literally states that the management bodies are managed by the principals who, on the basis of a public tender, appoint the headship. There's no dispute at first sight. The provision is clear, precise, and mostly as it should be regulated.../The speaker has been excluded/... and, the status of the director in the units of local self-government. However, when we link the provision of Article 53(4) to Article 97 and in terms of legal developments, and in particular in terms of practice, we encounter a whole series of problems. In particular, Article 97 reads; The procedure for the appointment of the head of the management bodies under the provisions of Article 53(4) of this Act will be implemented after the establishment of representative bodies elected in the regular elections for members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government in 2001. So it was already taken there in 2001 as one, so the year from which it actually counts is the application of this institute. And now that it's controversial. It is disputed what kind of legal status we are in the current and local self-government units. It is doubtless that these people are appointed on the basis of a public tender that they are selected by a certain, or local headship. However, it raises the question whether their working relationship is in this sense for a certain time or indefinitely. Does this mean that in 2001 when we have a April month and the entry into force of this law, it means that these persons are appointed for all future times in terms of the legal obligation to call a public tender by the headship. My opinion is that, of course, the leaders are especially at the level of the local self-government unit, the very same professional person who not only unites the administration at local level. It's actually those experts, those people who program a concrete programme of headship run through the city administration into life in action. If this is the case, and if we do not explicitly prescribe that in fact every newly established and elected headship actually has the possibility to call for tenders and to actually choose the basis of this competition by the person who will follow their programme in terms of work and the city council and the city headship and the municipal council and the municipal headship, then we could. And we already have a bit of an absurd situation in the field. So we have a new established headship, we have found people who are the headmasters who are either them or we will prescribe the law and we will give the law on members of the headship or not members of the headship, but these are the direct people who are so dared to say, the souls of the city and the municipal administrations and who are actually uniting all that work. Both in administrative terms and also in terms of implementing concrete programmes at the level of units of local self-government. And lastly, as far as this institute is concerned, it seems to me that it is necessary to define clearly and precisely in order not to in practice have a situation where, in terms of interpreting these very provisions of the law, an indication of the experts, opinions, in which way this is actually interpreted, or what is the working legal status of the head. Therefore, we can regulate in a way that any headship after the elections have been completed, following the constitutional meetings headed by its mayor or the municipal chief has the right to call a tender. And that, based on this competition, they choose, of course, an expert person from the head of, say, the city's administrative departments that would work with or make up a team to implement a programme for which a particular head office has been mandated to carry it out at the level of the unit of local self-government. The second thing I wanted to stress is the provision of an article in the 90th law, where in my opinion we have an absurd situation that needs to be changed and related to the working legal status of both the mayor and the mayor and the mayor. This provision is specific. The general act of the representative body may determine that the municipal chief and his deputies, the mayor and his deputies and the mayor and his deputies may carry out their duties professionally. So I repeat, I can perform professionally. This 2001 law, therefore, regulates the situation in principle and rules that it is generally volunteers, that all volunteers, or that they can be extremely professional. It's my opinion, and it's also because of the domestic situations we've had in practice that this principle actually needs to be promoted vice versa, i.e. to put in place a second sign that we're promoting. Well, we can't possibly allow practice to, so today towns or cities of 10,000 inhabitants have budgets of nearly 50 million kunas, not to say larger cities. Here are the solutions, we're introducing the status of larger cities. And if we had the legal principle of Article 90 that these are volunteers, that people who run the programs, they are therefore responsible for spending these funds, that they are, we prescribe that they can be volunteers, non-professionals, someone who, along with another job, can be mayor or mayor, even mayor and behave that responsible, I would say one demanding function in the term of office of four years. And I think it is necessary to prescribe as well as to develop the principle that, therefore, it is necessary to professionalise them and that, exceptionally, the statutes or general acts of the units of local self-government can be prescribed but the conditions under which these people may, perhaps in smaller circumstances, be prescribed, but in exceptional circumstances, in any case, carry out their duties and volunteering in terms of the conduct of that duty. The example works, from the middle where I come from, just by applying this provision, is actually the mayor of volunteer who is an employee of Croatian Forests companies based in Zagreb. So he works and lives in Zagreb, has his jobs and work assignments from Monday to Friday. He's a professional in a public company, and in parallel with that, the mayor of the city is the cornerstone of this legal provision volunteer. I'm not gonna say that people in the middle call him "a weekend mayor," and that's really how it is. And it's up to us that this institute right now is doing these surreal situations that are going on in practice, we're changing in favor, we're affirming actually the reverse, reverse principle. In the sense of residence and residence, who can behave in which unit, is also running for representative bodies or for the head offices of local self-government units, perhaps more in terms of legislation which is the same in the agenda and of course regulates the residence and residence of citizens related to local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34630	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34631	Well, I'm glad that this has just been my colleague Tomljanovic's attention to some problems, but unfortunately, what you were talking about is not at all the subject of amending and supplementing the law that is the subject of our debate. This is therefore another argument why this law in question should be withdrawn from the procedure and made the full text of the Law on Local Self-Government that will solve indeed these dilemmas that you have spoken of and a whole series of others, a whole series of other dilemmas, is it?’ For example, also in Article 90 of which you have spoken, it says that the basic criteria for determining the salary, i.e. the remuneration of the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, are the mayors and the mayors will be governed by a special law, which is not made, right? So that law, obviously that article is inapplicable. Just as it is inapplicable in Article 97, which you have quoted as an integral part of the transitional and final provisions which are not touched at all by this Bill proposal. Obviously, it's a law that should have been released in pre-election time right now so that we're clouding the eyes of the citizens and we say, here we've made big cities and I don't know what else we've solved, and basically nothing important is solved, and in particular, it's not going to solve a whole series of these dilemmas that we have. Not only are these dilemmas now going to be around the headmasters you were talking about, but it is now, not a dilemma, but now these same leaders will be members of the headship. So then he will become a member of the headship, and then he will appoint himself headmaster. So we come up with another absurd situation. And indeed, here's this debate you're having that argument that the law needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. It will not come into effect now, but can come into effect with a new budget year and by then a full text of the Law on Local Self-Government can be made that will solve all these and a whole series of other dilemmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34632	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34633	My debate was not at all in the sense, if you listened carefully to my opening part of the exposure that possibly this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. On the contrary. And you colleagues know very well that there is a first and second reading procedure in terms of lawmaking. Shouldn't we, in our first reading, as parliamentarians, discuss the legal institutes in such a way that, through only the first reading and in terms of the final proposal of the law, we make the parliamentary representatives the best or most optimal solutions. By the very fact that the law is in the first reading and what we are discussing, I do not hope but I am convinced that this law that should be at this very moment in the procedure and that the Proposer, of course, will, as it does otherwise, consider and analyse all our proposals in terms of individual debates and that they will be determined and made the best possible at this moment of solution. These remarks, which I said, can be very simple to resolve any amendment, either in a way to accept, let's say, part of what I've been discussing or to accept in principle or conceptually, and we'll come to a solution very quickly. My debate was and it was a replica to us that exactly, to emphasize how much this law was passed in 2001 in its application, and I will not deliberately mention what concerns the state administration, because there are even more of the nadal solutions there, has caused problems in terms of the functioning of local self-government units. And if it's going to be a border in 2001, it's like two worlds, like since 2001, some new legal institutes have to be invented. Dear colleagues, these are the nadal institutes that entered the law in 2001, and it's my only suggestion to change them. Nothing more and nothing less. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34634	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34635	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Much has already been said about this proposal to amend and supplement the law on local and regional self-government, so there is no need to repeat it. It is good that this bill provides for further extension of the powers of units of local and regional self-government especially cities over 40,000 inhabitants as well as cities of county headquarters. Especially in the domain of construction and spatial planning because it is precisely an area and activity that is linked to both municipal equipment and municipal construction, which is the basic activity of the units of local self-government. Many things are regulated by this amendment, but it is a pity that the article 44 of the existing law, which I think some colleagues have spoken about, is that the municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants have no headships but practically a representative body performs the role of headship which I think is contradictory, and there is no point in doing so because I believe that a little more efficient headship that may be and should be far more professional than the representative body, can also make the work of that municipality cheaper, and certainly it can be more quality and can do some things. The fact that a representative body is more rarely convened than it is a headship, and I believe that this institute should be changed in a way that up to 10,000 inhabitants are able to choose and regulate their statutes whether they wish to have a headship. Here, just so briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34636	Thank you. The word has the Secretary of State Palaric, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34637	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It was the government's intention to debate this law thoroughly, which is why we gave it the first reading to discuss the proposals that we have proposed, and it concerns not cosmetics as it was intended to be imputed, but rather work on key ways of developing local self-government in the Council of Europe. In fact, the Croatian government has done much in this current part of the mandate to develop local self-government. She's brought a national program for local self-government. We also held a regional ministry conference in Zagreb, Croatia hosted. She's been very well received. At a Ministerial Conference in Budapest a month ago, Croatia's report was extremely well received. We have no objections from the Council of Europe to the quality of our local self-government, and we want to encourage these legislative changes to the best practice of raising the capacity of local self-government and certainly to implement the process of decentralisation in a way that leaves the monotypic form of local self-government units. Dear MPs also spoke of a part of the law that we did not propose, so for another reading, we will carefully study and take into account the most important part of the proposal. In particular, we will also consider provisions in the headship of smaller units of local self-government because in this sense there is also a legal proposal from the Club of Representatives of the HSS which is today included in the agenda and we will try to find the best solutions because the development of local self-government by local democracy, and then democracy is a big concern for all of us at all. Thank you very much to everyone who participated in the debate and we will carefully study the phonogram and prepare an even better text of the law for another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34638	I thank the Secretary of State. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34639	Second, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, first reading. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on local and regional self-government is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. We can vote right now. I'm asking for a result. 90 votes for, 4 abstentions and 6 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34640	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 212. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on European Integration. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go, Mr. Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Final Proposal for the Law on genetically modified organisms was drawn up in accordance with all European standards in this area, as well as on the basis of all the comments and proposals made in the first reading on the occasion of the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Let me just underline a few of the most important parts of this legislative proposal, especially those that should in a restrictive way regulate this area by respecting all unknowns and risks associated with the possible use of genetically modified organisms. In fact, in a public debate so far, suggestions could be heard to identify ourselves as the simplest country of genetically modified organisms, which would certainly be one declaration and will to be determined according to the use of genetically modified organisms. However, it would only declare the will, but there would be no instruments that would effectively prevent the irresponsible use of genetically modified organisms. For this reason, this law in one complex way regulates this area by respecting the intertwining of the three most important parts of the circle, as well as the detours of some other ministries, in particular I mean the area of health, agriculture and forestry and the area of nature protection. For this very reason, one of the most complex issues in the making of this law was to clearly distinguish the competence for the implementation of this law. In order to implement this law and effectively monitor the area of use of genetically modified organisms, it is necessary to have expert personnel, to have laboratories and all services that can effectively ensure and monitor and implement the law. For this reason, you will see in Articles 3 and 4 that we have set up a very complex and restrictive way of deciding on the use of genetically modified organisms where I would call it a veto system, so each body participates in every procedure regardless of the divided part of the circle and any body may, for reasons of respect of its professional reasons, block any of the permits provided for by law. Only when the provisions of the law are better examined have some said that the applicant will find it difficult to decide to apply at all, because the procedure is so complex that it is unlikely to complete successfully. One of the most important differences in the existing provisions of the Law on genetically modified organisms found in the current Nature Protection Act is significantly different, and this is how the procedure is implemented. The current Nature Protection Act states that this procedure is identical to the administrative procedure, which means that when the applicant submits an application for the use of GMOs to the competent authority, the competent authority should then demonstrate the basis or non-basement of that request. This final bill is regulated in a completely different way, so the burden of evidence is on the applicant's side and it must also make risk assessments and plans in the event of an accident and all other professional bases and evidence that the use of genetically modified organisms will not be harmful. This is also an important difference in understanding the silence of the administration, namely, in the administrative procedure when the administration is silently considered to approve and in this case, if the administration is silent then the request is not approved. Let me further underline one of the very important segments of this final proposal, which is the supervision of the implementation of the provisions which is also divided according to the section and in which the state inspectorate was introduced in the exercise of inspection supervision. Of course, as soon as such a detour is divided that a coordinating body must be set up and that is in this case the Ministry of Health and Social Care. It is also amended to conduct the infringement procedure. So far, the law on nature protection has been implemented by the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Ministry of Nature Protection, which is, in our case, the Ministry of Culture. Of course, it is illogical and it is simply difficult to implement what we have seen and in the past examples of how bad it is when we have had problems with GMO corn and all the other controversial situations that the Ministry of Culture cannot be, so the final proposal of the law provides for jurisdiction to be taken over by re-infringing courts. Another important component in the final draft law, which is to ensure that the public implements the procedures for the authorisation of the use of genetically modified organisms. In fact, a large number of provisions are dedicated to the public public security requirement of all documents and even to the implementation of public debates in certain situations with interested persons. In certain provisions of the law, you will see that the provisions that link us with the same bodies in the European Union are given, namely, upon the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership, we will be obliged to inform the relevant body of the European Union and all members of the European Union by all procedures and decisions we make under this law. This only means that both their and them will have the opportunity to react and to show about the need to issue a permit or ban the use of certain genetically modified organisms. Even the very fact that in some countries of the European Union, the use cannot be withdrawn by automated use in the Republic of Croatia, but in this case it will be necessary to carry out the procedure but in this case it will be possible to shorten. And let me finally, undermining that provision that I consider to be extremely important and also different from the legal solution so far, which is a matter of responsibility for the damage. In fact, the responsibility for damages under the current law is only if there is a intentional use of GMOs which makes it difficult to determine responsibility because it is intended to prove it. In fact, our approach to this final proposal is that responsibility for damage exists in both cases, both intentionally and intentionally, when genetically modified organisms are introduced into use or into the environment. These are the most important provisions of the Law with a large number of places where there is the possibility that any procedure that has even ended with the authorisation to put that permit out of force will be due to new information on such a genetically modified organism, for any other reason identified by any of the relevant ministries. Here, so much for the introduction and for your questions we'll try to give answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34642	Thank you very much. Correction Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34643	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State said that according to the current principle of the ZUP, so far it has been that the silence of the administration at its request means approval of the request. This was never under the General Administrative Procedure Act, nor was the current principle, although in such cases only administrative action can be filed, due to the silence of the administration. And it is also an incorrect assumption that the new procedure is thus regulated by the issue of imports of genetically modified organisms that it will make it difficult. However, he will make it easier, the best suggestion was the HSP club about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34644	Thank you. Does anyone else want any of the proposings? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The gentleman on behalf of the HSLS Club DC, LS is Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. He's gone. He's losing his right. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34645	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Whenever it comes to genetically modified organisms, then it's caused by a wide public controversy, because it's an area that we all know little about. So the genetically modified organism is the one whose structure of dezoxirbonucleic acid is altered, which means that the basic acids that determine the hereditary properties, so we enter into the hereditary properties of future generations of a cell. In this case, it is about changing heritage properties in such a way that they improve to make our agricultural products more beautiful, so that we don't need a lot of pesticides and other chemicals, in order to be more wet-resistant or dry. To make them cheaper, to produce more. Of course, part of the scientists say it's a very dangerous venture, because by incurring a genetic structure, we can cause a whole series of undesirable effects, from allergy even to premature death, where we heard on one board the other day that they could dream of any kind of freak if they ate such food. The other part of the scientist disproves it, and now we can use both arguments. The fact is that in medicine we have long ago capitulated before genetic engineering because we produce vaccines and some medicines that have been obtained by such genetic engineering and that are absolutely more quality than those before. However, caution and wisdom imposes on us that in legislation, we stick to certain provisions that will recognise the possibility of unwanted action on human health, especially the living man to a minimum, to the minimum possible extent. And our public is extremely sensitive to this subject, let's just remember when one laboratory in Osijek gave the wrong information about GMO facilities in some 11 or 12 living foods like this storm caused in our public. Fortunately, it turned out to be the wrong analysis. It is legal legislation that should protect one country from the greatest possible risk. Likewise, this legislation must be in line with the legislation of the European Union countries, so as candidates for the European Union, we cannot make legislation that is not in line with the laws of the European countries, that is, with all the documents that the European Union has issued. With us, the legislative and legislative regulations are cascade, lagging behind the European Union. And we had a partially solved problem of genetically modified food facilities in several laws, and in several decisions, i.e. government regulations and in several regulations. However, all this was insufficient. And it was just about to pass a roof law like this that would fill all the existing gaps. And this law does exactly that in a way consistent with the solutions in the European Union. So it's about the law with all the solutions. This Law has been decided by the legislator, or legislator, by the proposer, to a multiple system of jurisdiction, which many criticise, but I think it is good, too, and we think that this is a good solution, because it is about the application of genetically modified objects in so many different areas that simply one ministry cannot cover it. For this reason, in this Act, professional administrative and inspection tasks are carried out by several ministries. In case of limited use of products with GMO facilities in the closed system of this professional administration and inspection work, the Ministry of Science approves. In the case of intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment, the Ministry of Culture, as it is also responsible for the conservation of the environment. If it's GMOs in, therefore genetically modified food facilities, in medicines, in cosmetic products, then it's the Ministry of Health. In the case of animal feed on reproductive material or on animal medicinal products, this is the Ministry of Agriculture. While labelling products, which is very important has in the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate. It is particularly important to establish high-quality laboratories to control the concentration of GMOs. From the unpleasant experience I mentioned, you can see what a false alarm means, and even worse if you were falsely negative results, so if you underestimated the concentration of GMOs or presence of GMOs in some food. Therefore, this Law determines that the Ministry of Health determines strict conditions in the form of regulations and oversees the work of these laboratories and we can say after a longer period of stalking our laboratories some of them are ready for these important tasks and challenges. In such a complex structure as you have heard from the promoter, the Ministry of Health chosen as coordinator, which is also a good decision that has not been made in the first reading, which has been discussed a lot in the meantime, I believe it is a good solution, because it is in the end about protecting the health of our consumers, or our residents. What all this law regulates. It regulates everything the European Union requires of its members and its future members. And that is, cross-border transmission of GMOs, limited use of GMOs, deliberate introduction of GMOs into the environment, placing on the market products containing GMOs, handling and transport and ultimately handling waste material containing GMOs. What one reason to support this Law is that the law includes mechanisms, protection mechanisms in the event of arrival and discovery of new knowledge. In this area, new knowledge is almost daily. And new knowledge is used more in the economic war than in science. Because GMOs as the content of live food is important, is a very important weapon, a very important argument in the hands of importers or exporters of certain products. And to get the market they deliberately exaggerate or deliberately reduce different data on the possibility of action of GMOs. Science will only give its last word there and probably not for years. Will those who say it is harmful or are right to say that in the future without GMO content there is no survival of humanity, because there will not be enough food, that we will see. However, this Law also builds on a safeguard mechanism from any expertise or scientific knowledge that could have a negative impact on everyday practice, which is determined by the Council for genetically modified organisms. This Council is composed of top experts of different professions, appointed by the Government on a proposal from the RES, and the work of this Council is public and, as the Proposer said in Article 57, is definitely guaranteed public work and the Council has an obligation, as well as two committees on which I will say something, to make public announcements of its results. So, the law has built into itself and the public of work, which is very important, and therefore the senseless fear of likable representatives of those, those green actions the other day that shared those Italian green apples, which I suppose do not contain GMOs, even though they are imported. In order to determine the objectivity of the work, the legislator also provides for the establishment of two committees. It is the Committee for the Limited Use of GMOs, and the Committee for the introduction of GMOs into the environment. One and the other committees consist of experts in different specialities, so again professions, not politics or state administrations, keep an eye on new knowledge and surveillance of information and public intelligence. The law stipulates that it will be experts in the field of microbiology, genetics, medicine, biochemistry, molecular biology, pharmacies, agriculture, veterinary, etc. So, this council for genetically modified organisms and these two committees guarantee the monitoring of expertise and scientific knowledge and public information on all changes in this matter. I would like to conclude here some of the remarks we have met in public these days, which is that some European Union countries have declared free zones of genetically modified objects. That is not true, of course, and that is not possible, because members of the European Union where genetically modified objects are not banned, but strictly controlled. And they are strictly controlled through this law, because the entry of GMOs is accompanied by a number of barriers that are detailed here. And as you know, the labelling strictly prescribed by a government regulation that was passed in March last year, by which any GMO product that has more than 0.9% of the content of such objects must be specifically marked, and in the case of seeds, the level of labelling obligation is 0.0%, so none of the seeds can have any of the GMO content without being specifically marked and warned. In European Union countries, there are certain areas that have been declared legally free from GMOs, not legislatively. And we have such zones, because some counties, I even think six or seven of them, made such declarative decisions, but they're not decisions at the legal level. Therefore, there are no free areas of GMOs in the European Union except at one of these declarative levels. And there is even one example of a province in Austria that is therefore also in the Strasbourg court because it also wanted to introduce a full ban on GMOs in food. Therefore, such remarks that this law should prohibit GMOs in food or that they should go to some referendum absolutely do not comply with what Europe has adopted, and it has accepted much better for us, more secure laws and regulations than many outside Europe. Finally, we believe in the HDZ Club that this law should be supported because it allows for strict control of GMO facilities, because it allows Croatia to remain an ecologically clean country with strict supervision of the entrance of such objects. Noting that I am the law and the whole of the legislation are certainly not the only ones who can preserve our environment that requires good education, objectively showing the situation in the media and constantly monitoring scientific knowledge. With these notes, we support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34646	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34647	Dear colleague Dr. Hebrang said that shared jurisdiction in this area means more protection. This is an incorrect allegation because a shared jurisdiction in theory and practice right always means that you do not know who is responsible for what. It is also incorrect that we must accept this because these are the gains of the European Union. The European Union has succumbed here to the pressures of the United States and at least Croatia is fortunate to reject the pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34648	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34649	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! A few questions have thus divided the public and also the professional public as a question of genetically modified organisms. The introduction of GMOs into the environment and the sale of food from GMOs resulted in many debates in the world. Although issues for the debate are very similar in the first order of costs and benefits and health issues, the results of the debate differ from country to country. This is also understandable if he had in mind that genetically modified organisms and everything related to them are a relatively new area, so there are no possible negative consequences that GMOs can represent for biodiversity. I am thinking primarily of the fact that the potential impact of GMOs on ecological systems and species that, through their interrelations, make a living network on earth and also insufficiently known is also the fact of what effect genetically modified organisms can have on human health. Therefore, the use and use of GMOs must be subject to strict supervision and control because when such organisms are found in nature, means outside the laboratory where they are produced and produced they become a new unnatural component of environmental systems that can affect the overall biodiversity. Furthermore, consumer confidence in the health level of food in Europe and with us has fallen considerably due to a number of food-related affairs. Let's just think of cow madness or dioxins in chicken. These affairs are due to the economic interests of food producers, insufficient or false public information and irresponsible behaviour of responsible government bodies. Let us also remember that case about a year ago, Mr Hebrang mentioned it before me, when it was very clumsyly manipulated by laboratory findings on the content of GMOs in some food products in Croatia. All of this has a greater public mistrust in official information. As a result, it is no wonder that on the World Consumer Protection Day this year it was declared the Year of GMOs. Furthermore, public opinion has been offended that traditional foods that have been eaten for thousands of years have been healthy. I'm going to give just one example that says that opinion doesn't always have to be true. When developing new crops using traditional methods, some of the existing characteristics of foods can be changed and most often new plants are developed by saying traditional breeding techniques do not explore sufficiently in detail the risk assessment method. For example, the potential negative effects of the new protein on health are not being investigated, i.e. Its toxicity or allergogenicity is not studied. In genetically modified organisms precisely because of the awareness of the possible adverse effects that can be caused by their application, specific systems for more detailed analysis, evaluation and verification of GMOs and of food obtained in view of human health and the environment have been established. The area of genetically modified organisms is particularly regulated by international documents, and this Convention on Biological Variety and the Protocol on Biosafety, which is specifically aimed at examining modified living organisms in the environment, which can cause negative and inconclusive consequences for biodiversity and human health unless possible impacts and safety measures are previously considered through the risk assessment process. The Protocol provides countries to which modified living organisms are imported certain... the protection and possibility to consider each case before import itself and make a reasonable and scientifically justified decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia has signed and ratified both these international documents and has committed to implement them within its borders. In addition, these documents have been taken into account when drafting a law on genetically modified organisms whose final proposal is the subject of this debate today. This law seeks to regulate cross-border transfer, limited use, production and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and products by prescribing procedures for the determination of the degree of risk and risk, as well as measures to be taken in the event of uncontrollable spread of live genetically modified organisms to the environment. All in order to prevent or minimise the risk of biodiversity and human health. The very problem of GMOs is being addressed by several ministries, which in such cases can cause confusion in determining what is in whose jurisdiction and who is responsible. In order to avoid any possible doubt, the legislator clearly distinguished the powers to implement this law between the relevant ministries to Articles 3 and 4. In Article 3, the competences are even more detailed and detailed than they were in the proposal for a law in the first reading. The Ministry of Health and Social Care shall become a central and co-ordinated body for the performance of professional activities related to genetically modified organisms. The ministry is also authorised to run a unique GMO register. Article 5(4) is amended as compared to first reading, as, with the mandatory risk assessment required, the production of relevant technical documentation with notifications and a monitoring plan for environmental impacts is required. I must say that I am pleased that the promoter has respected the remarks that we of the SDP Club made at the first reading of the law, so it shows that sometimes the Government can respect the opinion of the opposition, and I would like there to be more examples, so it is in Article 13. The Government has accepted the suggestions given during the debate in the first reading of the law and according to these amendments, the Government is obliged to take measures to restrict or prohibit the use of GMOs in the event of a lack of scientific information and knowledge on the possible negative consequences of biodiversity, the environment or human health, or if there is new or additional scientific evidence that the product may pose a risk to biodiversity, the environment or human health. In this way a necessary precaution is needed when it comes to GMOs rising to a higher level. It is certain that there is a far greater risk and danger to the biodiversity and human health when deliberately introducing GMOs into the environment than the risks created by the limited use of GMOs in closed systems. As a result, the Proposer paid particular attention to the intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment, and Article 27 provided for the possibility of introducing GMOs into the environment only on areas which would be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from authorised bodies. Protected areas and areas of the ecological network, then areas intended for organic production of agricultural products and ecological forms of tourism are excluded from any use of GMOs. In order to prevent the spread of GMOs in areas where GMOs are not allowed to be introduced on purpose, protection zones of influence shall be established. Under this Act, the making of implementing rules and their production should be subject to extreme serious and responsible access as they will be subject to detailed procedures for obtaining import licences, then what is very important for this area, the content and scope will be prescribed and, the risk assessment methodology, the regulation will prescribe detailed content, application and the way it is submitted, and the conditions for limited use in laboratories, etc. The law also provides for the treatment of waste resulting from the use of GMOs, which is regulated by Article 54 of the application or by the person using GMOs, it is required to destroy the resulting waste in such a way that GMOs are no longer capable of reproduction or transmission of genetic material. It is good that, because of the monitoring of the state and development in the area covered by the problem of genetically modified organisms and the provision of expert assistance, a scientific expert body for the implementation of the law is established, and this is the Council for GMOs, the Committee for the Limited Use of GMOs and the Committee for the Introduction of GMOs to the Environment. Of course, there is a question of staff, or whether Croatia has enough professional people to enable the law to be implemented in the best possible way by its knowledge and expertise. As a result, it is very important that education and professional training and administrative staff and inspections be trained to carry out all those tasks that are intended for them when this Law enters into force. It is also very important to inform and educate the general public about the problem of genetically modified organisms and only on scientific and well-founded facts. Only in this way will consumer confidence be built in the approval of products from genetically modified organisms and in the correctness of all decisions taken by competent authorities on GMOs. This is why it is good that the law provides for public involvement in the decision-making process. Croatia has excellent conditions for agricultural production, however, less than 75% of available orange surfaces have been used. Since the price of transport, placement, storage and market price of the product is not harmonised, it is very often not cost-effective for the manufacturer to sell its products and about 20% of agricultural products are destroyed annually in Croatia. Agricultural production in Croatia is conventional and is not competitive with international industrial production of conventional and GM food. These are the problems that need to be addressed both this government and all future governments, we need to do everything to remove all those problems that make our agricultural production uncompetitive in relation to large producers. If we do, then no one will even think about bringing GMOs into the environment. In the SDP, we advocate precisely such a concept, we advocate the preservation and improvement of those comparative advantages that Croatia has in relation to other areas. If we keep in mind the extremely biological and landscape diversity of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and respecting the high level of conservation of natural eco-systems, we are primarily committed to maintaining and strengthening Croatia's image as a country of highly preserved nature and a healthy environment. But we are also aware of the fact that at today's stage of human development and at today's stage of technology, I am thinking primarily of different technologies in food production, which are primarily aimed at achieving quantity but also at quality, we cannot put ourselves under a glass bell to isolate ourselves from everything and thus avoid potential dangers. That is why we from the SDP Club will vote in favour of the Law on genetically modified organisms because we will only keep the strict legislative use and traffic of GMOs under control and supervision and thus prevent possible abuses and malfeasances that can result in serious damage both to the environment and to human health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34650	Thank you very much, ma'am. It is up to the IDS Club and the gentleman, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34651	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers, gentlemen of the ministry. The IDS Club cannot support and will not support this Final Bill on genetically modified organisms. First of all, the Istrian County has made a decision that there will be no genetically modified organisms on its territory, but from my exposure you will see the reasons for such a decision. It is clear in the reasons for the adoption of this Law that these organisms are found in nature outside the laboratory conditions that they become a new, unnatural component of environmental systems that can most often affect the overall biodiversity. Furthermore, Croatia is said to have accepted the Convention on Biological Variety from Rio, so it has taken over the obligation to preserve it. However, this Law wide opens the door to the entry of genetically modified organisms into the market and the environment of the Republic of Croatia. This defacto Croatia first gives up sustainable development, secondly, puts its citizens in the position of the experimental rabbits of global corporations. Third, it reduces the nation's ability to feed on its own. Fourthly, its agricultural producers deprive themselves of the possibility of exploiting the growing demand in the world for healthy food and of putting even worse business at risk. The fifth of its agricultural producers leave unprotected without the possibility of compensation for the unwanted contamination of their country and cultures by genetically modified organisms. The sixth reduces the democratic rights of its citizens because it denied them the right to free choice, i.e. the possibility to say not genetically modified organisms in its country. Before I explain all these claims, I will ask all of us MPs one question as to why Croatia opens the door to GMOs, what is our interest in this? Have we exhausted all possibilities of classical agriculture, so we need GMOs to avoid hunger? We all know that's not the reason! That unprocessed surfaces are all over the place. Then why are we putting ourselves at risk and our population and our environment? For the sake of the regulation of the European Union. Well, that can't be the reason! Because already 100 European regions and three thousand and 500 subregion have been declared zones free of genetically modified organisms. And they are making increasing pressure on the European Union and on its administration for new laws that will protect those areas from the contamination of GMOs. Do we want to profit from GMOs? It's an illusion. The GMO profile is reserved for global corporations and the consequences for local producers and locals are generally negative and increasingly difficult. How long the time of use of GMOs lasts, see what happened to agriculture in Argentina. But let me get back to the explanations. Why Croatia defacto gives up sustainable development by opening the door to GMOs. One of the basic principles of sustainable development is the precautionary principle, and it requires us to give up efforts that we are not sure will have negative consequences for the environment. This law does not deny risks and establishes that risks exist. THAT I can be great and that all possible negative consequences are unknown. Yet the possibility of using GMOs is opened. The second important principle of sustainability is that the polluter can pay. The law provides for penalties only for illicit activities with GMOs if users are allowed to do so and the damage is done in a traditional way. It's nothing to anyone. It may even happen that what has become the case of Canada and America's court disputes that a corporation owner of patented Geneticly modified organisms is judicially asking agricultural producers that are contaminated by GMOs have naturally adjacent parcels and are asked to pay the right to use Genetic modified organisms that have come to their agricultural culture that they never really wanted. Why will the introduction of GMOs into Croatia turn its citizens into the test rabbits of global corporations. Biotech corporations that patent GMOs do that, it's not a secret because of the profits and the management of the food market. In biotechnology research, these large corporations invest large amounts of money, but in terms of safety, they don't invest any of the total money for research. This applies to both the European Union and the United States. The negative effects of the multi-annual commercial use of GMOs are revealed practically daily. But they're hard to break into the public because of a powerful legal apparatus that has been a technology corporation that prevents and scares those who dare to publish true data. That is why it is increasingly widely believed that the release into the environment and management of GMOs is the greatest global experiment on human beings. Subject law has identified this risk but allows Croatian citizens to join the army of experimental rabbits of the world. I suggest you all go online and everyone can see GMO disasters on that list. The list is called the 2002 GMO disaster. So you'll see how these disasters in the world are marked. Why the introduction of GMOs will reduce Croatia's ability to feed on its own. First, the technology corporations live off the fees for using their technology. The more users it is, of course, more income for them. The use of technology is regulated by a contract which, apart from a technology fee, requires consent and for example, is Monsanta in the case of GMO cotton, means that the farmer must not use his own preserved seed. That the farmer must not grant any preserved seed unless he has previously respected it must pay 120 higher value of the compensation for technology plus court costs. That's the Monstanto Corporation. The question is why would we enter this kind of dependence on foreign corporations? In addition to our traditional cultures and agricultural techniques. For a bigger profit. All the experiences say the opposite. The use of GMOs means even stronger binding to mono-cultural agriculture. Huge spaces under one culture, and small farmers disappear. It is going to the cities. Modern mono-cultural agriculture is one of the biggest problems of global sustainable development. It's a huge consumer of water, it destroys the ground and causes erosion. She's a big water and air soil contaminant. It is responsible for 25% of CO2 emissions, 60% of methane emissions, and 80% of nitrogen oxide emissions. Which is all powerful greenhouse effecters. In addition, it requires 6 to 10 times more energy than traditional sustainable agricultural techniques. And the end of the fossil fuel era is coming in soon. Scientists are increasingly realizing that traditional agricultural methods have a better chance of feeding the world under climate change than intensive GMO farming methods. Why do we have to focus on GMOs right now? Why the introduction of GMOs into Croatia will deprive producers of the opportunity to exploit the growing demand in the world for healthy food, and expose themselves to new economic problems. In areas where the shine of GMO cultures is authorised, the conditions for organic production of these same cultures shall cease. Blowing out pollen with wind or in other ways is impossible to prevent, so any more detailed control of organic control would reveal its GMO contamination. On the other hand, even the UK that favored technology corporations, unlike the rest of the European Union, must take into account the demands of its consortium of traders who gather around 90% of trade and who warn the government that GMOs do not pass food on the market. Those who are involved in the promotion of GMO cultures claim that they seek less pesticides and give bigger transfers and then earn money. Many mountain experiences have shown that this is not the case, but research conducted by the DNG for the European Commission's agriculture that says so. The studies carried out do not provide evidence of the profitability of GMOs at farm level. Why we expose our farmers to new disappointments. Why wouldn't our agriculture and our tourism point to the fact that GMOs are not present in the environment or in the shops. Why this law does not protect Croatian agricultural producers. Who remain without the possibility of being compensated for the unwanted contamination of their country and culture by GMOs. The WTO rule that everything that has no scientific evidence must be allowed that is harmful is contrary to the polluter principle that must be paid. The burden of proving that something is harmful is reduced to the damaged, not to the one causing the damage. Thus, agricultural producers whose cultures are contaminated with GMOs or people who, due to the use of GMOs, have problems with health or state when they find that in some eco-systems they should pay for research and in fact suffer damage from GMOs. The supplier shall not be required to guarantee the control and safety of its genetically modified culture, which would include the obligation to compensate all those affected by the consequences of the incorrectly declared properties of GMOs and insufficient testing and the consequence of the application of GMOs to human and animal health and the environment. Why is this law also reducing the democratic rights of Croatian citizens? The introduction of GMOs into Croatia in many ways will determine the future quality of life of each of its inhabitants, especially agricultural producers. It can be said that this is an important decision from the point of view of national security, food independence, the state of health of the population and the state of the environment. However, this decision to introduce GMOs has been passed on to several competent authorities. Not doubting the professionality and well-being of the authorities here is the subject of which the citizens of Croatia, units of local self-government and regions must have the right to plead for or against GMOs. Unfortunately, this law gives them that opportunity. The IDS request is certainly not to allow GMOs to enter the Croatian environment under any conditions. Do not allow food products containing GMOs without clearly visible markings to come into our shops. Allow the declaring of counties and units of local self-government free of GMOs, rigorous penalties for offenders that will include damages to all entities resulting from negligence, illegal or irresponsible treatment with GMOs. I went online today to see what citizens think, and a survey conducted whether Croatia is taking care of GMOs enough. Yeah, it's 10.83%, it's not 89.17%. That's why the IDS Club can't support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34652	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34653	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be much shorter than the colleagues who spoke before me, because I don't think there's any need to repeat myself. I agree with a lot of what my colleague Martic said, Mr Hebrang. As a scientist, I would say a little bit of the diametric opposite of what my colleague Pesic-Bukovac said. But I think it's good to warn here about some facts. First of all, I would like to say that as a member of the Committee on European Integration, I have agreed that this was essentially in line with our law with the legislation of the European Union, but I also warned at this session that between the first and second readings of this law, the Council of Europe has already brought a number of new documents regarding this matter. So we see how dynamic one area is, what we see and what we do. Namely, I will only warn of Resolution 1419 on genetically modified organisms brought by the Council of Europe in January of the end of January of this year. And from that resolution, I'm going to give you some data. What I would like to do first, however, is to thank the professional services of the Parliament that listened to me and to my request in essence and to multiply these documents of the Council of Europe, they were directed to the members of the Committee on European Integration. I hope the members of the government have also received a resolution and just a report because I think they should serve all of us as a form of how we should work in the future. What surprised me pleasantly about this document of the Council of Europe is the fact that only the report was accompanied by 123 scientific and professional references. So every argument is objectively and precisely reasoned, it looks more like a review article in a quality scientific journal than a political document. But that's how it works when Europe is insecure, when something needs to be done correctly. In short. In these documents, the most recent documents of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe seek essentially to reconcile the right to a free choice of consumers on the one hand, so it now insists not only on the labelling of products but also on the whole process of the production of GMO products. On the other hand, it also seeks to provide a clear right to the free choice of GMO producers, with the fulfilment of all the preconditions that we have heard clearly from the Government's representatives before. However, the main debate at the Plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly took place about 4 parameters in connection with GMOs. They're ecological parameters, they're economic parameters, they're social parameters and ethical parameters. So maybe in the shortest lines just a few words about one, the other, the third and the fourth. With regard to environmental protection, in particular, and constantly apostrophe of unknowns in relation to possible horizontal gene transfer, and thus seeks to warn of possible long-term effects on biodiversity. It's still an unknown, no matter what little space there is, as a scientist, I think I can say it competently, but there is still a caution and there should be and there is still this space and reason to doubt what can happen. We produce a transgenic animal, who says it won't be more sensitive, more susceptible to disease, who says that a zonozet won't be able to endanger a man on a larger scale than today. Who says the allergies that Mr. Hebrang was talking about will not clearly come to light tomorrow in the application of new species, if even these 60 that we're using commercially today, it's not the case, it can become a case tomorrow. Infections with genetically modified microorganisms always exist no matter what we scientists do with them. But will we always be able to control in every situation and their expansion is a big sign, it's a big question mark. Keep going. It was also very interesting to discuss the latest economic parameters, whether GMOs would address the world's hunger issue. The answer to the Council of Europe was clear a month and a half ago, no, no, no. Why not? Because it is believed that clearly patent rights, intellectual property regulations, producers and trade monopolies will only create an additional gap between the rich and the poor. It is therefore no longer disputed that hunger will not be eliminated without great will by those who produce such food and such products and who are technologically clear in the situation of holding everything in their hands. In fact, it was said very openly at the Council of Europe session that already today the European Union can fully close its market for such products from Third World countries, from underdeveloped countries. Why? Because it does not meet the conditions in which such products should be grown. Here are the terms of the law. They certainly can't do that. It can be blocked at any time by the import of food from those countries and clearly lead them into an even worse economic situation. Finally, a number of ethical issues are opening up. Can we, first of all, produce transgenic animals for economic benefit? In these animals, we disrupt natural metabolic processes, speed up and change the growth mechanism, cause a number of other changes in these animals. Is that an ethical colleague and colleague? We're disrupting their health through all these manipulations. I am sorry that no one was present here today to speak in front of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry because I think they really did have a very good debate, that a number of conclusions and suggestions from that committee should have been the subject of our debate here. I'd just single out one detail they're looking for, they're asking to be seen and discussed today whether to go to the third reading of this law. I personally don't think so. I believe this law must be in permanent reading. In a permanent reading. I believe that we too must assume our share of responsibility, and I believe that our committees would have to meet, sit down and agree on new amendments to this law at least once a year. So permanent reading in this sense is the only solution. It's a predominant area. We see that between the two readings there are resolutions of the Council of Europe that have already gone towards the European Union, and they will begin to change their laws very soon in their Parliament, and we have adapted ourselves to God. We didn't. Because in two months, they will change their laws based on these recommendations. So please, nice colleagues and colleagues, and let's do our part of the commitment, let's not be hard to get this law back, see that we're returning some laws a few times because of technical failures. There must be no such failures here, we must not put ourselves in a position to do one great damage that is potentially possible. Here, however, let us try to look at this area on the other hand and benevolently. If this technology can bring us good, let's use it well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34654	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34655	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored gentlemen of the Croatian Government. At the very beginning, let's be clear, the club of HSP MPs will not vote for this law and we believe that it should be withdrawn from the procedure and that... This is the way with the laws on GMOs. [[You don't understand.]] So HSP submitted its law on the ban on GMOs in the procedure was still in April 2002. In this law whose emergency procedure we were then supported by a number of MPs from practically all of the HDZ parliamentary parties to the SDP via HSS and HSLS, we asked that Croatia be permanently fenced from the introduction of GMOs except in very clear circumstances, which is the situation when medicines or medical preparations are used based on genetically modified organisms where the patient, as well as the doctor, is aware of all possible side effects and is being built on everything that the organism can do, so the patient himself accepts the risk, and secondly, scientific research in this area where the scientist is also aware of the risks involved or developing such materials, i.e. genetically modified organisms and which is also responsible for their use and destruction. Everything else in Croatia should not be allowed. Why? In the first row, from a number of cases that have shown the harmfulness of bringing GMOs into the environment in countries that have experimented with it, on the other hand, and that is far more important, because Croatia is thus losing a unique historical chance of becoming a producer of organic healthy food, namely that clearly in Europe is declared a country free from genetically modified organisms, therefore as a GMO free country. It is crystal clear that we Europe and WTO cannot mate with classical agriculture or with GMO-based agriculture. Here we serve exclusively as a test rabbit and as a market for GMO seed producers, GMOs and all accompanying Herbicides and pesticides specifically developed for these new plants, and on the other hand as a market for large food producers based on GMO components and that is the sole purpose of actually ladies and gentlemen of this law. So the sole purpose of this law is to legalise the introduction of GMOs and products into Croatia, i.e. legalise the right of foreign corporations that produce GMOs to earn on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's the sole purpose of this law. We then put our law in the process, he had two readings. In the second reading, the Government rejected it, decided to make its own law that was in fact a copy of ours with the difference that the Government decided in 2002 not to ban it permanently, as HSP proposed, but rather to ban it temporarily. Maybe it's a game of words, but I don't see the need to go any further than that. I remind here that Croatia can only succeed in agriculture if it is a GMO free country. If we're not, this is definitely not what we're going to become by law. So this is about the limited introduction of GMOs into space, risks, etc. It's crystal clear. If this law applies, in ten years it will no longer be necessary for Croatia, because to this extent we will contaminate Croatia with GMOs that we will no longer need any legislation on limited entry. GMOs will be a notorious fact. So you can see that from a few articles of this law. First of all, there are five different state administrations responsible for monitoring and authorising the use of GMOs. We were very clear in our law. One problem, one law and one jurisdiction. Here, however, it was broken down to the central authorities of the state administration for the affairs of science, to the central authority for nature protection affairs, to the central health care body and then to the authorities of the State Administration for Agriculture, Fisheries and Veterinary Affairs, and then to the State Inspectorate. So everyone in charge, no one in charge. Also, this is really the highlight of absurdity is that in all articles that talk about risk, it is Article 16, Article 28 and Article 42 of the Risk Assessment for the one in whose hands the profit is. It is crystal clear that this will do everything possible to make the risk assessment ideal, or that the risk is almost gone. Be careful with this law is not to play with. The article 24 also discusses the possibility of learning, of course, about the harmfulness of certain products. You just know what ladies and gentlemen, ex post knowledge means actually an ex-wise mind, but it's an old shame. The damage has already been done and it cannot be fixed. And there is, of course, a famous article 27 that speaks of the fact that GMOs are allowed to enter the environment only on areas that will be agreed upon and that special protection zones of influence are otherwise foreseen, etc. etc. etc. Carefully, those who do not understand biology have written this because the expansion of pollen speeds up the spread of GMOs. It is almost impossible in this way to regulate this problem and we believe that this Law with such provisions simply goes in the wrong direction and that we with amendments cannot fix it. If a genetically modified crop is potentially dangerous to human or animal health, if it endangers the environment and biodiversity, if it does not have a special economic advantage, because it must use specially designed herbicides and secticides and fungicides, if it has a difficult placement on the market which is the reason why we insist that this and such a product must be used for us. A man has to wonder if there's money behind all this. And that's what usually people who deal with environmental protection ask themselves in a number of such situations. So, we believe that such a law is simply bad, that this Law does not ensure Croatia's protection against damages caused by the introduction of GMOs into the environment, that it does not provide for or foresees compensation for the damages resulting from the use or transit of GMOs itself for the purpose of use in trade. And we also believe that this law does not make it possible to declare certain parts of Croatia and the whole country for a GMO free country and that is the primary national interest. I repeat, Croatia can reach a maximum in agricultural production, it can achieve a maximum of only and only if it earns from its preserved environment, if it earns from its image of a clean country, a country free from genetically modified organisms. Here, such a vision of Croatia breaks down into dust and ash. I will not tell you here any further about the examples that can be found in the world literature about the harmfulness of GMOs and about the senselessness of directing Croatia in this direction, I will not debate as there have been examples in the press of any heavy dreams or that we will grow horns or gills or what I know. But the only thing I want is for those who write such a law and who stand up for it and those who vote for it at the time see and understand what they have done to Croatia with such a law. So, from all these divisions, HSP won't vote for this law, and we think it should be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34656	Thank you very much. At 18.06, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, let me say a few words on behalf of the club, I appreciate what my previous colleague Doric said about the club, so maybe tomorrow I'll take the opportunity to on behalf of the board because we had a very extensive debate and say a few more sentences individually and now on behalf of the club. The risks associated with biotechnology have not been verified until the end of science, nor are the possible negative consequences that can arise from GMOs both in the environment and in human health. The reasons why this Law is adopted are not mentioned anywhere in its economic advantage, i.e. whether analyses with concrete economic benefit data have been made at all. In the case of socially economic and environmental negative consequences of the release of GMOs into the environment, more economic profitability and the damages themselves are irrelevant in this case. So it should be asked before, who can compensate for the damage caused by the use and release of GMOs into nature? Can any degree of security also assess the risk of deliberately putting GMOs into nature? Do we have secure personnel, institutions that are technologically and financially qualified to implement this law? So what if some laws are not passed not only within the legal time limit but unfortunately for years? What will be the impact on many productions in us for which we have all predisposition and a secure market and what will be the effects, not only of economic, social, health, but of the overall social in this respect. From all this, when we look at ourselves, there is a question of who is interested in the adoption of this Law, especially in the context of what we have heard about the European Directives and finally our position on the European Union. Is it possible that we do not know how to use a clean and quality fertile land, nature, a suitable climate, biodiversity, but we want to question it or don't let God destroy it? Those who don't have it are looking for ways to genetically manipulate the market and we who at first have all the opportunities to produce the healthy food the market wants to become their market. Developed and wealthy countries legally protect citizens from many harms to their health. Croatia has already said it supports only organic production and this attitude must not change at all. Namely, organic and genetically modified agriculture can freely say two are almost conflicting concepts. The commercialisation of GMOs by several Western corporations could control the entire domestic seed market, thereby involving the safety of food production on a national scale. It is necessary to adopt a law on GMOs which will prevent the import and sowing of genetically modified seeds and thus protect the environment in the Republic of Croatia and organic and traditional agriculture. In any event, all resources should be invested in a branch, organic farming. We are obliged to ensure that our farmers can work and earn where they were born, where they want to live, and that if no one opposes the European Union. And we won't be able to do that if we let GMOs into nature because then in this area, multinational companies will make money. In Croatia, an increase in the area under organic farming is projected to be total to 10% of farmland, i.e. by 2010, almost 120 thousand hectares for organic production. This is what we focus on, with our wisdom, knowledge, expertise, financial training, prepare everything we need to make use of such projects by European funds, make the entire Croatia a protected zone and become number one in eco-production. Our national trade chains are ready to invest in advertising and make special departments for our domestic organic products, but requires that they be continuously supplied throughout the year, which unfortunately in these conditions our eco manufacturers are not able to do. May we ignore the determination of 6 and 7 counties that they want to be free of GMOs in any way. I think people have the right to decide and that voice must be heard. In the debate on the Law proposal on 2 December 2004, almost all speakers pointed out that GMOs should be under strict supervision and control, and this can only be done if GMOs are banned, except of course there have already been words in scientific research and under strict control. When GMOs are released into nature, no more strict surveillance and control, we've heard everything that can happen. Agricultural land that has been unprocessed for years is immediately ready for organic production. Environmental production should be given priority in the sale, lease, concession of state-owned agricultural land. ... agricultural production Croatia can be competitive and is already here and the highlighted question is whether it can be with GMO agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we cannot be competitive, why will we put biodiversity at risk, people's health and inexplicable damage to the environment. Shouldn't it be better for the ministry to deal with a number of laws, implementing regulations that solve in areas where we have a far greater chance of success or where we would be far more competitive? Given Croatia's focus on food production and tourism, health and food safety is an imperative for further successful development of these activities as is important for ensuring the level playing field of Croatian producers. For example, Croatian plant and seed processing has a long tradition and enviable success. After the second world work, Croatian processors created more than 900 crops of agricultural species adapted to our climate opportunities. Allowing GM crops of foreign multinational corporations in the country would mean destroying our seed and agricultural science in that segment. Whoever has the courage to make such a decision does not give priority to organic production possibly gives room for turning in a negative direction. The strategy for the management of agricultural land states that Croatia is a country of rich resources of relatively good fertility and one of the most preserved in Europe and is talking about a turn from agriculture to a quantity or yield of quality. It further states that the way out of the existing situation is seen in sustainable agriculture safe for the environment that leaves clean soil, water and air to future generations. It's interesting maybe here to emphasize some I'd say the free delusions of the past as a lesson to the future. In 1950 only two years after the award of Nobel Prize for the discovery of DDT insecticides, the results of research have been published showing that small doses of this insecticide are also causing severe hormonal disorders. These data did not prevent more than 700 thousand tonnes of DDT from being contaminated until the ban of that insecticide in 1972. Similar conflicts are currently ongoing and characterized by post modern science, genetically modified food, cloning, global contamination by plastic packaging, etc. American farmers continue to dominate when it comes to the area planted by GMO crops and 59% of the world's land planted by such crops on the United States. In contrast, in Croatia, we currently have 189 agricultural producers dealing with organic farming at a total of 2 thousand 654 hectares and in the preparatory phase as far as I know almost 2,000 hectares. The improvement of organic agriculture is necessary through legal and sub-legislative legislation. In cooperation with the profession, education producers on the ground as best they can and help to organize the processing part of organic production better. Special attention in organic production shall be paid to land which must meet certain standards. Croatia has set out on the only right path to maintain the production of natural food by declaring an area exclusive to ecological zones. This bypass solution against GMO products was spiritually patented by Austrians as well. As far as I'm aware, they've allowed the shine of genetically modified seeds, only in the Alps in places of eternal snow and ice. In order for it not to be wise and for us to go one such direction, we go towards ecological zones almost throughout the country. Can we pass a law allowing GMOs to be released into nature knowing that the consequences of genetic engineering will be unknown, non-refundable and unpredictable. Companies that produced GMO crops simultaneously increase the production of herbicides and require authorisation for higher levels of residues of these chemicals in GM foods. GMOs can pass on a foreign gene responsible for the tolerance of herbicide through pollen to other plants by encouraging the emergence of resistance to enterherbicide and thus requiring new generations of herbicide. This will continue dependence on agro-chemicals as environmental pollutants. A very clear solution to weed control does not lie in genetic engineering technologies but rather in restoring sustainable agricultural practices such as the application of the fruit of order and less agricultural parcels. The production of genetically modified foods is a complete contrast to organic food farming and violates the fundamental principles of organic agriculture. As regards the release of GMOs into nature, which can have permanent and inconspicuous consequences for the environment, the soil, the health of citizens must be ratified prior to the adoption of the relevant GMO Act, which is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to ratify... Convention promoting access to information and public participation on environmental protection issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If so much has already been done in connection with public participation, why do we pass a law that lets GMOs into nature and which can have inconspicuous consequences without wide public participation. The Archduke Convention opens new opportunities for education for the environment and sustainable development. Citizens must be able to understand better the relationship between environmental issues and social and economic issues. They should learn to apply their right to access information and justice as well as to participate in decision-making. Active involvement of main social groups, NGOs dealing with environmental protection, consumer protection associations is considered necessary for a more effective environmental policy. On the other hand, a question can be asked why it is important to adopt the Law on genetically modified organisms before the Nature Protection Act, which will no longer be those articles relating to GMOs. Perhaps a few words of concrete now that I am obliged to say, we had on board the opinion of the Croatian Agronomic Society, so allow a few more sentences. The Croatian Agronomic Society stresses that the law does not comply with the national environmental protection strategy, the national strategy for agriculture and fisheries and the national strategy for forestry. The law does not apply nor underlines the precautionary principle that Croatia received by ratifying the Cartagena protocol. This principle provides the possibility of legal rejection of GM crops until suspected harmfulness has been removed from the studies. This law does not allow counties, local communities to commit to a GMO free region. It is absurd for the new law to be based on the unfulfilled dreams of the advocates of this new science because unfortunately, in the case of genetic engineering, only failures are recorded, which does not mention yet numerous arguments by the opponents of this new technology. If a GMO crop is potentially hazardous to human or animal health, if it endangers the environment and biodiversity, if it does not possess an economic advantage which is due to the legal approval of imports, the seed of such crops and even the accelerated process. Experience shows that responsible officials are related to the introduction of GMOs into a country of potential victims of bribery and corruption, we know these phenomena, from Indonesia, etc. In any article, the law does not try to prevent such occurrences from determining possible damages as well as liability or compensation. Because of such major fundamental failures, such a law cannot pass after a partial tuning, but it should be completely rejected by the creation of a new law and therefore we at the Club oppose the passing of such a law, we think that it is a much better solution than the passing of the law itself and the third reading to further debate it. So in addition to this opposition, of course we at the HSS Club, we feel that it is absolutely necessary that I believe that this will be the position of the majority in this House to read this law third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34658	Thank you very much. That's what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This bill should regulate the treatment of genetically modified organisms when introducing them into the eco-system as well as when transporting, importing, and placing them on the market. However, he does not actually bring in any important newspapers in relation to the existing law on food and nature protection. Perhaps the most important difference in the division of competences between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and customs and sanitary inspections and the Croatian Food Agency. A body within the state administration would be responsible for issuing licences or refusing certain GMO projects under the new legislative proposal. And I think that's exactly what the biggest problem is, that's our biggest problem. Because it's a matter of difficulty right now. And do not adhere to regulations and already such and existing regulations as not even a little harmless customer cheating by not marking the necessary legal codes these products are genetically modified. It is enough to recall the recent affair that broke out after a domestic manufacturer’s dried product revealed a quantity of genetically modified organisms, or, that product contained more than 0.9% hence far, far above the allowed limit and was not marked. So the product was not marked as the law and the existing law foresees by the need of a sign this product contains GMO. It could not be said that the government is not aware of the risks of negative consequences or of the lack of knowledge of the impact on human organism on the biodiversity of the ecosystem on species of genetic and general diversity of genetic systems, i.e. the impact of GMOs on them. It should be noted, therefore, that because of such a single risk, and neither knowledge nor beginning, let alone until the final reach and the impact limit should then be remembered, in any case, that Croatia is still 1996. ratifying the Convention on Biological Variety, and the convention just mentioned defines biodiversity as a fundamental international principle in the protection of nature and the common obligation of humanity. AND commits the countries of the signatories to the preservation of overall biodiversity. It should also be noted that we are a country signatories to the 2000 biosecurity protocol where Croatia has also committed to ensuring such development of handling and environmental leakage of GMOs that will not endanger biodiversity. The government's reasoning states that both biotechnology advocates are, therefore, one and the support of the government's proposal itself, that it can simply influence the solution to food problems in the world and in our country. Reduce the need to create new agricultural land. Increase yields on weak fertile soils and reduce irrigation needs and agro-chemicals. However, it should be noted that Croatia does not have such a problem. That Croatia has no problem feeding the population, that Croatia is simply not Africa. We don't have a hunger problem. So I don't really see the need to produce and sow such seeds. On imports, things are clear no one is against, and as Jagoda Martic said just now when she spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, that we do not live under the glass bell, but therefore the main problem is that what is being imported is to make choices for the citizens of the customers. And it would have to be one hell of a violation. We did not see the consequences for such a producer who did not indicate it on his product. And I think that's the basic problem of just being intransparency. And then where does fear not only fear the unknown but also fear the citizen of the buyer to buy something that is not safe. I think that just in this sense our administrative bodies should be very, very rigorous, so that they can somehow gain the citizens' trust that they really have the right to choose to buy. However, I return right here to the production of GMOs or to the sowing of GMO crops that have no justification in Croatia. Because we're not saying in that situation. Here's just our flat Kotari in Zadar toddler with a better agricultural organization can solve not only the problem of Zadar County, but the diets and neighbouring counties. And after all, if we're not sure about something then to him, it's an old English rule, if you don't know anything if it's worth a look at his price. Well, then we can also see that products are also not genetically treated in Europe in such a way that they are more expensive. Finally, the European trend is now approaching organic agriculture. All of these are therefore warnings that Croatia and we must listen with caution. And respect. And these are issues that really do not concern any policy but concern all citizens. And it's a pity that the government didn't listen a little bit to what the NGOs say, the government is often known in its legal proposal when it comes out with a proposal to praise here, it's got the consent of this association, those associations, though it happens rarely. But rightly so, in those cases, he boasts. So he listens even if all associations aren't, but some part of the citizens think as the government suggests. And it's certainly one incentive, and that's why it's a miracle that the government is completely deaf to the appeal of the NGO for environmental protection of the Green Action, which is why this particular thing is being warned about. She also warns of one of the biggest problems about this issue is the problem of non-transparentity. And that is why this provision in the law that will subsequently form a register and this special regulation is certainly not something that citizens will welcome, nor is it in favour of transparency and the possibility of citizens to define themselves. It's certainly something that should have contained the law itself. It should not be paranoid, however, but world geneticists, this is exactly what it is and it draws attention to this Green Action association where it is quoted by geneticists, professors at the Croatian University, the university, who says, our understanding of the role of DNA in the development of organisms is so insufficient that we are facing shock after shock. Croatia is not forced to do so and there is no reason for it to do so, none, only harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34660	Thank you very much. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34661	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the potential benefit that mankind can benefit from biotechnology is its contribution to the development of medicine, the development of new medical techniques and vaccines. We're talking mostly about GMO products here and we're looking at this same contribution a little bit. It certainly is a potential benefit in both development and agriculture. It is also pointed out here that advocates of this method and science point out that a global food problem can be solved. It can reduce the need to create new fertile surfaces, may increase yields on weak fertile surfaces, then reduce the need for irrigation and agro-chemicals. I would refer to these agro chemicals. I think we're talking a little bit about the application and the occurrence of other harmfulities such as application, uncontrolled use and fertilisers and pesticides and also the uncontrolled disposal of their packaging, which certainly creates harmfulness, I would dare say, perhaps more than these GMOs themselves. An important question that should actually be answered how GMOs as well as genetically modified plants and their products work on human health. So the advocates say that in fact, they express their opinion that these products are as safe as those that are traditional, even say they are healthier because they have larger vitamins, minerals. While opponents say they are harmful or extremely harmful. So the public change actually in various countries shows that it is not a supporter of GMOs and GMOs. So, let's say about 80% of the Germans, a little less French and British is against GMO products, and Croats are around 74% of Croats are against GMO products. It's probably a good part of it because it's not enough and information. Genetically modified food is usually criticised and sharply criticized by those who have plenty of food, but we still have to ask what is wrong with those, millions who, poor and hungry, die from hunger and food shortages and surely come from this type of food. However, the question also raises the question of how the use of GMOs and GM seeds affects biodiversity, environmental systems and species. As these organisms behave when they are found in nature outside the laboratory, they can surely become an unnatural component of the ecological systems and then can affect the overall biodiversity. The potential danger lies certainly in unintended changes in the characteristics of virulence and other characteristics. Then there's the possibility that modified crops, let's say, start spreading uncontrollably, and that's actually what we're all afraid of when something gets out of hand. And certainly in addition to some of these desirable effects that we have no doubt stated that, with the use of genetically modified organisms, risks go, and since this is a new area, I don't think those risks that are for biological diversity as I said about ecological systems and species, for genetic resources, then for health we are not fully familiar with, and we can't fully see them. And that is why I think it is necessary to point out that a stronger scientific study of the impact of genetically modified organisms is needed because science has not yet answered a series of questions that are asked for answers and which must be answered. The proposed Law on genetically modified organisms should ensure that professional administrative inspection operations related to the area are more effective in the use of these genetically modified foods, products containing genetically modified organisms and the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment. I would just point out here Article 39 where the applicant is obliged to obtain means permission for any genetically modified organism or products containing or originating from them. And we also need to make a risk assessment. I have to say that really when we imagine how it's going to work, I think there's going to be considerable difficulties and that it really needs control, solid control. It would then refer to Article 51 which regulates this designation. And here I would agree with my colleague Anticevic who said that we really don't need the shine of these products. We have enough unprocessed land that we can process and everything. But there might be some way to agree that these genetically modified products can be imported, strictly controlled and clearly marked, so that they are clearly marked, means that all of this is under one strict control. And just to say that I am not a proponent of genetically modified products and I like ordinary domestic, domestic products and I would really like Croatia to be a country without genetically modified products. But I'm afraid in this world of globalisation we won't be able to resist it, so if that's the case, then we should have a law to regulate it. And here's the law we expect that's it, that's it. And here we have also seen in the bill that in all those paragraphs it is in fact that it is fully consistent only in some part with the legal gains of the Council of Europe and the European Union, so here it is with that basis that it could support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34662	Thank you very much. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34663	So here's a small replica of the claim of a respected representative who said that these products solve the problem of hunger in the world and the problem of nutrition and food shortages. I can tell you that I was the victim of such a claim myself. But that's not the case. The hunger and problem of food in the world is precisely a political and economic problem. Some have too much and that's why others have too little. And we do not need to have the illusion that these producers of GMO products, i.e. seeds, will give very favourable, i.e. impatents for that seed. They can't keep it, so it's very unfavourable contracts. They can't save the seed because it's a patented seed, so they have to buy it all the time. After all, even at least it is made for human use, more for textiles, for livestock nutrition. So it's one of these wings that just came from a GMO producer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34664	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34665	Well, here I think that in some respects and most of the view of genetically modified food, we agree. And I didn't, I said here that I agree with you for saying that we don't need such seed, and I think the same thing because we have enough surfaces that we can process and produce organic healthy food that will be the basis for both development and export, and that's where we see our chance. And I'm really extremely provoking that kind of production. And surely that genetically modified, it will certainly have that, that we have a strong economic power and that it will attempt to spread such products and I think it can still contribute to the reduction of hunger, but certainly it will not remove it because no measure can solve a world problem for itself, but it can contribute to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34666	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34667	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly, after the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Food Act, agricultural land and after round tables under the Greens Association, this law is expected to regulate and deliberately introduce cross-border transfer, placing on the market, etc. GMO products. According to what I was saying in my first reading aware that GMO products are located in Croatia if we start from a genetically modified soybean that is represented by about 60% of finished products in the Republic of Croatia, this law is certainly necessary. Croatia is one of the most biologically diverse countries in the world, and I think it is our priority to preserve it. Our strategic decision is to be a zone without genetically modified organisms and not to grow such crops. In the world GMO lobbys are very strong. Genetic engineering is a golden coke industry but I think we can have healthy food, organic production and conventional production without pollution and GMO products. It is certain that GMO crops pose a risk to human health and biodiversity. What we know is that GMO crops do not provide any economic benefit. Seeds are more expensive, they consume more pesticides, crops are smaller, their placement is difficult because the market no longer accepts them. What is trend is ecologically healthy food that if we can't place in a Europe that still doesn't want us, we can place it in tourism, and the future becomes competitive in Europe as well. The legislation of the European Union relating to GMOs stresses that Member States of the European Union should respect. Respect for the freedom of choice of consumers and manufacturers, which means for me to ensure that food is available without genetically modified organisms. Despite numerous lectures, despite newspapers and TV shows, the public in the Republic of Croatia is still under-informed about the possibilities and dangers of new biotechnology and the issue of making it a clear position. Some polls show that 78% of the population in the Republic of Croatia is for not accepting the idea of food produced by using recombinant technology, and others do not have their own opinion or have never heard of it. We Croats have the right to decide whether or not we will eat such food after what we have decided in this House to sign such provisions on them. The second principle of this legislation is to ensure the sustainability of agriculture, which means that GMOs should be secured free regions. The best form of sustainable agriculture is organic agriculture. I was pleased that in Croatia, those GMOs of free zones appeared in Croatia, among them were the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and people asked me what it means if we are now GMOs free, free. It does not mean anything because it is indeed declarative, and only what it means is this Article 27, which says that GMOs are not allowed to be introduced into the environment in protected areas, in the areas of the ecological network, in the protection zone of influence. How the other counties will declare it and, of course, there is no need to discuss it anymore, because it is indeed as declarative as then it is declarative in Italy, which is almost all of Italy green. The third principle is the precautionary principle, which means that environmental contamination... organisms should be avoided until studies have removed any doubt about the potential hazard harmfulness. [[You don't understand.]] Croatia was, here, the signatories of the Cartagena Protocol, the Convention on Biological Diversity. So in that part, we can find lots of space. The fourth principle is the objectivity of scientific debate and public participation, so transparency. Article 33 refers to the shortened procedure, the accelerated process of issuing an authorisation for the introduction of GMOs into the environment no later than 30 days, which was created in other climate conditions. In Croatia, it takes 12 years of work in the climate conditions of Croatia and then another three years of testing at six locations. This is also referred to by the Seed Act and the Regulation on the recognition of varieties. Can we, in a brief procedure, talk about potential health and environment damage in Croatia? Not 30 days, for me even more, if not a year. Access to GMOs will also depend on 17 members of the GMO Council appointed by the Government and which will evaluate the risks and issue GMO licences. The European legislation speaks of how the risk assessment should look, the clear identification of GMOs, the labelling of the donor organism, any environmental and health impact. We don't know about this risk assessment because it's naturally brought by the one who's going to file that application, and on the council, it's still to discuss it. Members of the Council shall be appointed on a proposal from the competent body for the protection of nature, the environment, science, health, social, agriculture, forestry, etc. which is further appointed by the Committee on Limited Use with 11 members and the Committee on the Introduction of the GMO with 9 members. I believe that there will be really experts in this area, and I think even in sociology, ethics, and even representatives of the church if we declare that we are 85% Christians. As a result of GMOs, multinational companies of experience also show that members are related to the introduction of GMOs into a country of potential victims of bribery and corruption. Maybe one part should talk about it in this law. For this reason, it is certainly necessary to introduce multiple decision-making and the jurisdiction of several ministries. One word requires caution. Genetic manipulation gentlemen has nothing to do with nature. The selected genes from one organism, whether they are animals, plants, bacteria, viruses and fish, are transferred to other species into soybean, to tomatoes, to potatoes. Why? To be nicer, longer, more resistant to insects and herbicides. Man cannot recognize new proteins and today it is known that he reacts with an allergy, reacts with anaphylactic reaction to death, and some product has been proven to have carcinogenic effect. Science today knows little about the environmental consequences, about the long-term effect of GM food on human health. For example, baby food is subject to a whole range of studies, a clinical trial takes at least two years. There are no short- and long-term studies with GMOs, and we've read about it if a scientist in a multinational company or somewhere found out what it was about, it was either covered up or fired very quickly. Some European Union countries have banned the use of GMOs in kindergartens and schools. Let us not forget that we are responsible for what we leave in the inheritance of our descendants, manipulating inherited properties. Sometimes I wonder if we're just guinea pigs without permission or without knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34668	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34669	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Although I am personally opposed to genetically modified food and I, like my colleagues from the SDP Club, will vote for this law because at least he tries to control the application of genetically modified organisms in Croatia so that in any case it is better than being completely out of control. However, I will look back at some dilemmas and ambiguities that are still not best solved by this law, which I think should be better defined. The adoption of this law will certainly not contribute to the mitigation of consumer fear of genetically modified organisms in view of the fact that the necessary scientific tests have not been carried out to confirm or reject the claims that food is derived from genetically modified crops as safe as those obtained from naturally-bred cultures and to the division of opinions on the harmfulness or harmfulness of GMOs. The issue of genetically modified organisms is not only a question of environmental protection, biodiversity and health but also a strategic development issue for Croatia. For a country whose development is based on the sustainable use of natural resources i.e. Tourism and the production of healthy food would be the best solution to ban GMOs, and since it is not necessary to bring as precise and more applicable regulations as possible to the World Trade Organisation's potential claims that will not leave room for the uncontrollable placing of genetically modified products on the market. For example, Article 47 does not define a maximum period of validity for placing on the market of products with GMOs, or is not limited at all, although, for example, in the European Union, the limit is ten years after which the procedure is repeated. Article 62 states that everyone has the right to gain insight into the information contained in GMOs’ registers and to request and obtain outs from GMOs’ questionnaires with the payment of the actual cost of printing. This information should be made available to all citizens free of charge by means of a website of the competent authority. Although the Final Proposal for the Law on genetically modified organisms is in the most important part in line with the provisions of the European Union governing this area remains a difficult fact that it is not a unique legal solution to regulate this area. In fact, there are other laws that include this issue, such as the Nature Protection Act or the Food Act. The existence of a single law that would regulate all issues related to GMOs would avoid any overlaps between jurisdiction and accountability and increase transparency. Furthermore, this law did not take into account the possible existence of the so-called so-called Law. GMO free zones. According to public research, such initiatives find public support, such as Zadar County, and the law should provide for and regulate the existence of these zones. As a country that has not yet been flooded with GMO products, we should take advantage of this advantage and as our goal as long as possible to maintain that particularity. The adoption of a single and transparent law regulating this area and its quality of application could make a significant contribution to achieving such a single objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34670	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Also, he's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go. And tonight with you, with your debate, we will conclude the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34671	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, members of the Government! So let me point out this bill is marked P.Z.E. When we talk about this, we also remember the European Parliament and Council Directive of 12 March 2001 under the number 2001/18/EC. The Directive literally states that no country can refuse to import GMOs after it has already been approved by any Member State. In brackets unless there are justified reasons concerning the protection of the environment or human health. However, it should be pointed out immediately that the experience of empirium and scientific knowledge suggests that any food whose physiological tolerance has not evolved evolutionaryly or whose characteristics have been changed in any invasive physical or chemical way is not optimally tolerated or even harmful. Tragic knowledge of the harmfulness of such food culminated well, we all know in the appearance of cow madness, the result of the demeaning of all any logical natural rules that, for example, herbivores cannot feed on the demoted raw materials of animal origin. However, the law needs to be carefully read and not allowed to be the predecessors of making a decision on this law. I might point to two articles. Article 28(5), which speaks of authorising legal persons to assess the risk of deliberately introducing GMOs into the environment. I believe that it should be complemented in a way that the legal person is empowered by the head of the central authority of the State Administration for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, with the consent of the head of the central state bodies already mentioned in that paragraph. Articles 55 and 68 providing for compensation for damages in the event of uncontrollable spread of GMOs. The key question here is whether breeders of such plants will be responsible for the economic damage caused in neighbouring non-GMO fields even when they fully follow the prescribed procedure and regulation. This is now under discussion within the European Union where... I brought the last big article about when they found, for example, in the United States that it was quite possible for me to say so to infect neighboring fields with respect for all possible procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A major public concern, especially in the United States, has led to the possibility of crossing GM plants with conventional crops. This danger is real so that in the United States, there has been a mixing of the type of corn for corn feed intended for human consumption. But of course we also have positive examples. A positive example of genetic engineering is the varieties of oily rapes and rice enriched with vitamin A. The lack of vitamin A in food causes blindness in hundreds of millions of children around the world and the poorest parts of it. On the same example, however, we have the opposite attitude. The same project by the German government, Chancellor Cole, on the research of GMO potatoes enriched with important carotenoids, i.e. The works of vitamin A which slowed the visual impairment of older people have been suspended financing after the arrival of the new government. And the principle is that there's no point in enriching food through GMOs. In this way my position, an unfair policy has overcome the profession, potentially at the expense of human health, since the five-year project remains only one year until its realization. Finally let me point out, because more or less colleagues said everything, probably many emotionally opted for this problem before reading the law well, but let me say one thought to the Nobel Peace Prize winner in 1970 Norman Borlaug. In agriculture, I quote: "...we cannot return an hour back and only use the methods that have been developed to feed a significantly smaller number of people. We need to enter a voice of reason into discussions about the use of science and technology in agriculture.". We agree and need a voice of reason and need primarily a scientific contribution, but that this scientific contribution should not be carried out in this way. When cattle were given artificial growth hormones that were used to stimulate larger milk production, along with increased production, the following was observed: increase in milk hormone, milk was more fatty, developed various livestock diseases, and in people taking such food was increased incidence of colon cancer, prostate breast cancer, and this hormone was banned and such stimulation worldwide but not yet in the United States according to my information. Here I tried in my discussion in a way that I don't know if I was able to separate scientific knowledge and empirical conclusions from the apparent lack of scientific evidence. Although that's a particular question why they're not here yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34672	Thank you very much. Tomorrow, we will discuss this bill at 9.30 p.m. Representatives, first Lucija Čikes, Ivana Sučec-Tracostanac, Ivo Lončar, Ivan Bagarić, Željko Kurtov etc., etc., we have another hour for tomorrow's debate on this subject. And then we're going to amend and supplement the Executive Act, amend and supplement the Executive Act after, it's probably going to somewhere around half past 11:00 and so on, is it? Thank you very much. Resume at half past ten tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34674	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It was hard to say anything in this phenomenon on purpose, I'm not saying the problem after yesterday's very contentious and constructive debate. From all of the exhibitions we would be able to extract a common denominator: we are not against GMOs because GMOs are reality in our doors, in our laboratories, but we are in order to preserve the autochtony of our life community which is often damaged and damaged by alochton organisms, and ezochtonic organisms in this case GMOs can be ecocites. I'm stressing I can be. All organisms for which modern biotechnology techniques are used are genetically modified organisms. Biotechnology in the form of traditional fermentation techniques has been used for decades in the manufacture of bread, cheese, beer and other foods. It was also the basis of traditional breeding technique in the form of hybridization and selection of plants and animals with specific characteristics in order to achieve better quality breeds and varieties. Contemporary biotechnology intervenes in the genome, in genetic walk, code and thus achieves the overcoming of natural physiological obstacles to reproduction and recombination. The use of genetically modified foods began in the 1990s and its mass commercial crop production in 1996. Not even 4 years have passed since then, and already on February 25, 2000 in Vesnik, he won a big title: “Croatian experimental rabbit and a place of genetically modified food that is unacceptable in Western Europe”. It is that at the end of this title a questionnaire and a referencer was placed, but despite this questionnaire and the challenger at the end of this title he intrigued us and warned us that the problem of genetically modified food was not far from us. Although the highest level of protection measures is being implemented in Croatia, de facto moratorium is still not a legislatively regulated area of production, import, transport, placing on the market and so on genetically modified organisms and food containing their parts. The adoption of this Act would regulate all of this, and according to the orientation and policies and the experts, it is up to the European Union to put in place maximum restrictive and scientifically structured registration and control processes, with the highest possible level of protection and health and the environment and to comply with all the obligations undertaken by international agreements. I must point out that an important instrument for implementing regulations is a laboratory in which genetically modified organisms can be identified, which is at the Croatian Institute of Public Health. And as I heard from the Committee from the representatives of this Office, they are very diligent and responsible and in the present possibilities doing their job. GMO, GM organisms bring us two basic hazards. The danger to human health and the danger to the environment. I believe that it is too short a period of time to examine these organisms, foods that contain these organisms and seeds to answer many questions. One basic question is whether GM plants and their products are as safe as they are traditional. So far, all professional and scientific analyses provide a negative answer: no. The increased toxicity and increased allergogenicity in the combination with traditional is significant and we cannot go over it easily. I'm also learning from the intervention of almost an adventure in the diet of children. How much damage it has done to generations of offspring is recommended to abandon, leave breast-feeding, the only traditional and only natural proper diet and transition to adaptable and modified milk. And just in our Croatian speciality and culture, even the culture of nutrition, I see advantages. The issue that GM products will dominate in the near future to contribute to poverty reduction and conflicting hunger is questionable. Poverty, above all, and political and economic issues. How much increased vitamin and increased mineral content in GM food will solve the problem of avitaminosis and consequent diseases is a medical issue and so far has not provided an adequate response. Of course I support science and scientific progress and research in scientific institutions specifically in Croatia, in the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, Bio-Technology Food, Ruđer Boskovic Institute. Because it would be unimaginable today to live without adequate vaccines, without effective antibiotics, and each other are a product of genetic engineering. But I will responsibly argue in the 25-year paediatric practice that, to know that children who take antibiotics more often are susceptible to diseases than those who don't take them. Now the question is why are they taking and not taking, and that's the answer right there. They wouldn't have taken them if they weren't sick. But in this, it is the pediatrician's responsibility to intervene with antibiotics only when necessary and to release it wherever and when necessary and to leave the natural course of the disease. Cosmopoliticalism and globalisation are the result of scientific and technological progress and we are part of this progress. But almost 90% of the Catholic nation obliges us not to exceed God's laws or natural laws. Not in any of this. And now I would like to look back only and remember a famous and recognized German, forgive the American pediatrician who, at the time of going into space and conquering the universe, has said: Neither will the world change the universe to space nor the conquest of space, but the world will change the contents of the kitchen pot. He emphasized exactly how important the diet and contents of the pot for brain development are. I'd say that if the contents of our grandmothers' pot, our great-grandmothers and our moms were too rich and we could make Europe rich with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34675	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34676	I thank Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues, I find this law extremely important and I believe that the debate on it cannot define us for or against GMOs or for or against the law, but that all together, regardless of which political option we belong, we must seriously consider the consequences that will result from certain articles of this Law if we accept it in the text as it is proposed in full. That is why I personally have the view that since we do not have time, I am at least in this ten-minute debate, and not all together because it is because different ministries in two readings that are as proposing the parent ministry, and also a number of others involved in this debate, and we do not have enough public debates, so I have resorted to those who believe that because of insufficient information, because of the inability to see the consequences resulting from the swift application of this Law if we adopt it, we are still giving ourselves a little time together to discuss everything in peace. Is that 3 readings, is that one timeout until the vote that we'll all decide together proposings please have that application in mind. And I see that some colleagues have already given certain amendments that I think we could talk about. I'll go about the part that interests me most in this law. So we are also aware of the consequences of human health, but the existing laws in force in Croatia have already severally protected those who eat products in which GMOs are composed in certain percentages. So whoever wants it because the manufacturer is the one who puts food on the market, they gave it drugs, they gave it fruit and vegetables, they gave it a finished product, they had to describe the composition of it on the declaration. To highlight the price and I am pleased that, according to the European Union's gains, it has recently been required to write down the process of the creation of this product, so to describe the technology of the creation of this product. So whoever wants to buy it with their money is the will of the individual, let them buy it but must know the difference between a genetically modified product and the one that's produced in a classically natural and so far the usual way. What I am personally interested in here is agriculture, so the part that speaks of the possibility that certain types of seeds of genetically modified organisms are being illuminated in an open system in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm against it. So, I think there's no such small surface and it's not even defined, so it's left to the bodies, to the council. I will now not say that different approaches are possible and members of the Council so those who are soul and over for genetically modified seeds and such crops and those who are against will also depend on future decisions on the composition of the council. So, I argue, and they showed that when a man once puts the seed into an open system, he can't control what's going to happen to the surrounding crops, which is going to happen to all those traditional crops around. I'm talking about some studies that have shown that in countries where it's longer present and where it's being monitored based on studies somewhere since 98 it's been shown that some of the new weeds that are indestructible by existing protective means have been created. And I won't tell you what someone mentioned last night that in whales in the North Pole I don't know how many depths under the sea were found residences of DDT when we talked about DDT as a product that was a miracle of technique or science when it was found and which essentially polluted the whole country. So I'd start with the real situation in Croatia. If we say that in Croatia today we have three million hectares of land, from which we process only 1 million hectares that the guess of experts is that Croatia can therefore feed 20 million inhabitants in these fields and the data on our exports and imports say that today we only feed 2 or more than half of the food we import. So 10 times as much we can produce in a classic, conventional ecologically acceptable and today a much more commercially desirable way then I would just say that and cultures in which we have self-sufficiency, which are eggs, meat of poultry, wheat, corn, wine, mandarins and honey suggest that we should not allow in open systems precisely for the sake of wheat and corn that Croatia has enough and which can produce even more. That existing crops are polluted. And now maybe I'd go over the law very briefly, and I'd say. That Article 3 and Article 27 are extensively bound. I also find it strange why it is not stated in Article 3(3) that the purpose of the introduction into the environment is also the responsibility of the national authority for agricultural affairs, which would be logical because of the seed. And now I return to Article 27, where geneticly modified reproductions are written, plant material is allowed to be introduced into the environment alone on the surfaces which, on the proposal of the central authority of the State Administration responsible for agriculture and forestry. And with the consent of the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the protection of nature. The Regulation lays down the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So it's not allowed in protected areas, and those parts where we've already made a decision in some counties. Although not someone yesterday said it was just a declarative character. I wouldn't agree. So this intention to not introduce GMO seeds into certain parts or culture is very real. I must say that I come from the Koprivnica Crossing County where I am the president of the Croatian Democratic Community Council Club and where the County Assembly where the HSS and SDP authorities are unanimously on my proposal and the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club has made a decision declaring the entire area of Koprivnica Crossing County in a region where GMO seeds will not be allowed to be sown. Or the production of such war cultures. So our commitment is certainly not declarative, it is very real and I am not sure if the laws are adopted that would allow the central body of the state administration to have someone dared in Koprivnica Cruise County order to plant on areas which are therefore intended to be an area of tourist development of organic production, and sustainable development to sow such products. And that is why there are still a number of legal options that allow you to think about that in Croatia in a country that is on a scale of corruption, unfortunately very low is possible those things that are possible in other countries only in a much higher percentage. And with much less moral dilemmas that we must bear in mind as responsible persons, even if we are not all experts or health professionals here. Nor for bioscience, however, something that obliges us to act wisely is our biological sovereignty. Who tasks us with preserving bioethical sovereignty, and they tell us that we cannot look at the consequences that arise, we cannot return the negative effects and cannot predict the disastrous consequences. I'll just tell you when I went to elementary school that was a long time ago, they taught us how a man restrained nature, put everything in his hands. Today you see that, unfortunately, when a man interferes with natural and divine laws, he gets a punishment, and he gets a reward. For the sake of what he's done, he's rewarded for a bad punishment. I, in any case, prefer the prize by choosing between punishment and reward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34677	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34678	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the law on genetically modified organisms that proves that we Croats are a very specific people. We speak of this law, an extremely important law we have divided into two camps. And we have an extreme against and extreme for. Instead of this law that will determine Croatia's fate in many ways, very soberly and in one scientific professional way we have talked as I have said. This is my second term in this House, and I've raised my hands many times against it, and I've been held back many times. Believe me, I don't know what I'm gonna do here. The reality tells me to raise my hand in, something little knowledge that I have of this problem and reason tells me no. Look, I'd like to give you some facts here, and I'd like there to be no partying here, but on the basis of that, we're not all qualified for it, but on the basis of scientific expertise, we make a decision that will be best for our Croatia. You see, colleagues and colleagues, I'd tell you, we have three farms today, I conditionally share it, we have organic farming, we have conventional agriculture, and we have conditionally, we have this GMO agriculture. Turns each other off. But I stand for an alternative because without an alternative to food production, we have no progress. In short, 20 years ago and a few years ago, as a young journalist, I fell for organic agriculture and so on. healthy food. So I started speaking healthy food as a journalist, which was completely wrong, and then my friends, my teachers, my colleagues, who studied with me, warned that food couldn't be healthy, because food or it wasn't, it couldn't be healthy or unhealthy. That we can only talk about more or less polluted food. If we were to have organic production in the world today for two years in the third year, we would have a general hunger in the world, and for the next seven years, we would have hunger in the world. I'll back that up for you with one piece of information, I can do more, but time won't let me. For example, if we organically produce wheat, we can get two to two and a half, two to two and a half tons of maximum wheat. In conventional agriculture where chemistry is present we can get without any problems 7 and a half to 8 tons. That's the answer. I don't belong to any chemical agrochemical lobby, or advocate chemistry, but let's be realistic. If chemistry is used with the presence of science and profession, then we won't have any problems. I'd compare it to one banal example like this, when a man's head hurts, he'll take Bayer's aspirin for example, he'll drink one to two, and he'll probably have a half an hour or an hour, there's a lot of doctors around me, so they can confirm it, the head will pass, but if he drinks them 15 or 20 he'll poison himself. It's the same with chemistry in food production. What do we mean by chemistry? These are pesticides, and pesticides are a common name for all chemical agents that we fight against diseases and pests in agricultural production. And there's mineral manure. When I was talking about reason a little while ago and talking about some kind of knowledge. You see, we in Croatia today, unfortunately, already have GMOs. He has been present in Croatia for 15 years. In our country there is a large multinational company, which is PAJONIR, present with its creations and in the production of seed corn. We sow these creations. In 2000, they admitted that their seed creations had genetically modified organisms. Dear friends, I don't need to tell you that in our country, it's over the GMO soy is quite present. Not to mention tomatoes, not to mention peppers, pickles, etc., etc. Plant genetics has progressed so far that today we can almost shape any production in fruits and vegetables that this has led to almost perfection. On the other hand, our Croatia is the most ecologically clean country in Europe. I'll tell you now, not yet. Now I'll give you one piece of information. I've been on several occasions in the Netherlands and I've done documentary films on organic food production upstairs. Maybe you've seen some of those movies. You see, the Netherlands has an annual gross income of $60 billion from the production of flowers, seeds, fruit production, vegetables, in the last 10 years and the production of agricultural machinery and some livestock production. However, they have the strongest eco movement in the world because they almost ruined their country. Now let me tell you something. In their open production, we have 20 pounds [26 kg] of residuals per hectare. These are chemical residues, so pesticides and mineral fertilisers. In glass and plastic production, they have 125 kilograms. And glass and plastic production, we know that from the elementary school of biology is problematic due to photosynthesis. According to the FAO can be allowed up to 6 kilograms of these residences. And do you know how much of this is in our Croatia? One pound. A little while ago, a colleague of Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec said that we have slightly more than 3 million agricultural areas. There's about 3 million and 420 grand. Unfortunately, it's being processed somewhere around a million and 400 thousand. To get Croatia out of this economic crisis, it is only possible to get out of food production. Because today there are more and more people on the globe and less production areas for food. In the last 7, 8 years, we've been importing over a billion dollars of food every year. In 2003, we imported a billion and 256 million dollars of food according to official data. Last year it was just over a billion and $400 million, this year it's going to be there. I am responsibly telling this Parliament that importing it is literally well-confectified garbage, in a qualitative sense. I'm not going to say medically that this food is poisonous, but in a qualitative sense, it's literally garbage. Because those who import food on the margins earn 700, 800%, which is inadmissible. Why do I stand up? I advocate that in Croatia through this law, and there are a lot of amendments here, there are a lot of suggestions here, not to go to the vote of this law today, but to all this is good, and there are very good things here, incorporate this law. Because, as I said earlier, this law will determine Croatia's fate a great deal. I advocate that on every product that has genetic engineering, it is simply written on it, because I am for the freedom of man, so let man choose. As cigarettes say, cigarettes are harmful to human health, so this must be here. One more thing. We know that every unnatural intervention in nature returns as a boomerang. This, this genetic engineering he will one day return as a boomerang. But let's also be realistic that to this day we have no scientific professional evidence of whether this GMO is harmful or beneficial. When we went into its production and started putting it into plant production we then started, not us but the scientists went into it, they calculated it here we go with this gene to make it impossible for this and that disease, that and that pest. And we don't have the results to date. So let me conclude this. Genetically modified organisms, I'm absolutely against them. But I am also real that in our Croatia, GMOs have been present for at least 15 years and that is why we are well protected from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34679	Thank you. Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhnil, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34680	I just want to point out and replicate my colleagues to one fact when they use the term "ecologically purest country." Looking at the amount of residuals that, unfortunately by the quality of the residuals that are in the soil we belong to more polluted countries, because we use atrazines that Europe has not benefited since 93, atrazines that are highly cumulated in the soil, atrazines are the basis of protection in curuse. We know that 40% of the surface is right under the corn, often in monoculture every year atrazine, atrazine. On the other hand, I wanted to point right through all of this. We're talking about organic food production. If in ten years below 3 prominences, or below 3 spills, we have an ecological food area including those 2,000 hectares that were announced here yesterday, I'm afraid that in that case Croatia will not soon have a serious area under organically produced food, and I don't think that this is the future that we have to look for ways to sow all the surfaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34681	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34682	Well, I agree with my colleague, Zdenko Chuhnil. Her narrow specialty is plant protection and I'm taking her hat off. But I was talking about organic agriculture, when I was talking about the alternative, for me, organic agriculture is a criticism of conventional agriculture. In that sense, I was saying it, and we have to support it. But I said with an example of what would happen in the world to make a third year of hunger, the next seven years would be starving. I just said that on the example of wheat, and you know better than I do what would happen to other cereals, and about fruit and vegetables not to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34683	Thank you. Second replica of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34684	I'm going to fill out my colleagues in on the part where he said we didn't have any scientific evidence of harmfulness. Unfortunately, there are a lot of them, I'll only quote four. The first report on the diet experiment on rats submitted by the Food and Medicinal Products Administration in America on a type of tomato that indicates the occurrence of early cancer symptoms of the stomach of experimental animals. Another diet experiments with GM potatoes on mice showed the creation and accelerated growth of carcinogenic tissue in the digestive tract in 98, the authors said. So we have food experiments with GM potatoes on young rats, they showed slow growth, slower development of vital organs, and reduced immunity of experimental animals. And fourthly, a scientific experiment has shown the adverse effect of the recombinant species, one recombinant toxin from... corn. So I don't have time and I have no intention, but there are a number of scientific papers that prove also health damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34685	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34686	My colleagues, Trakostanec, continue to claim that there is no scientific evidence of harm or benefit. What has been done to animals does not yet mean whether it will be reflected equally on people, and I will tell you an example that Professor Miroslav Radman has set in his day. When he was saying if a man eats a genetically modified flash and a fish that isn't the same, when it enters a human organism, it's in a GMO.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34687	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34688	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would have expressed my regret first that yesterday the public couldn't hear a lot of good debates on this subject, and here I hope today. At the same time, I would like to thank the congregation services that have multiplied and provided a number of materials that have benefited us in preparation for this debate. I think it's a good way for the public to actually be involved in the work of the Parliament and one that is against and one that is for some of the proposals. It's a good thing the voice of each other hears it. When it comes to today's agenda, or genetically modified organisms, then I would say that this is one of the modern topics that man encounters, and to me personally the closest to comparison would be the one he met also in the recent past, or humanity, which is atomic energy. Only one is organic and the other is inorganic. So as much as atomic energy can be used for the highest purposes and goals of treatment, it can also be used for the purpose of killing and in the worst possible ways. As well as genetically modified organisms can be in the service of each other. Research urges at the level of the genome are impossible to justify, or prevent. Therefore, whatever Croatia is doing, it cannot put any barrier, border on its borders, and it is as if it is none of our business if we just make a decision or do what we do. We are simply part of the global world and live in such a world. Because we can become? Can we really be a country free from GMOs? I really don't believe that. But as with other problems that man encounters in today, crime, terrorism, etc. So also with... this aspect of GMOs should be observed in a way that should be monitored, that should be done all with the aim of its supervision and in fact that the harmful part would be under the highest possible control and its consequences also. I see today's bill of law just as a sort of sanitary cordon when it comes to GMOs. If he doesn't have it, if he doesn't have that purpose then he's really unnecessary and I would say from yesterday's debates of some colleagues who say it's actually the introduction of GMOs into our space and the complete control of it, then such a law is harmful, that is, such a legal basis. I therefore join all those who hold that this is too important matter to be considered, to include all the contributions given by individuals and groups and, in fact, bring the final view, among other things, because we all agree that few of those who know about GMOs, and we all have very little relevant data. So here we were present with a totally defiant view of Mr. Ivo Lončar and colleagues of Sučec-Tracostanec when it comes to evidence. So for one of them there's no evidence, there's no evidence for another. So whether we have proof or not, it's really very questionable. And in yesterday's debate, I heard about a very valuable material circulating this assembly, unfortunately I didn't see it, Mr. Doric, I heard about a very valuable material with a lot of references, I'm sorry that I didn't get it on the table, I think it's useful and that it should absolutely be respected and considered. In this green booklet from Mr. Professor. I found a very interesting sentence from a certain respected one, he says a very famous expert on this field, Erik Lander, who says that in the face of these problems, that is, he should learn a lesson from humility. But Mr. Jost adds, but this man is not ready for humility, the present man, the man of this time. And from one speech, speaking from the mountains, we know that there stands mildness for the meek and the humble, for they will inherit the earth. I would return to atomic energy and to Mr. Nobel's Einstein, who said roughly, I'd convince his message about how the cleavage of atoms changed everything in human history except for one thing and that's human thinking. Thus, the human mind at the same time and what it invents and what its masters cannot follow to the same extent. Until humility happens in the world, Croatia can't expect it here either. And therefore, at the time of waiting for cooperation or negotiations with the European Union, and until they happen and when they happen, I think it would be good for Croatia to be like the one that was between France and Germany on coal and steel and which lies in the foundations of this agreement, i.e. that alliance of the European Union. Just to be in a certain way and responsible to that Union because it produces a lot of ecologically harmful among other things. And this Union could, for example, be between Croatia and any other European country in the production of healthy food and the preservation of a healthy environment. So in the time ahead of us, with the terrible pollution of the environment in which we live, what my colleagues were talking about before me, Croatia must have the answer, that is, a modern man must have the answer and he will seek it when, when the critical mass of those who are aware of it is achieved. I claim it will be as economically cost-effective as steel and coal, but also on a long track completely cost-effective, and I would say only possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34689	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34690	Just the addition and the clarification because I have more time through the replica, so my colleague Loncar and I agreed in most things we agree on the research results, except that my colleague Loncar said that there was no results on human research and that they naturally admit these on animals. I repeat, therefore, that the results on humans are not due to the shortness of time that has passed since the use of GMOs and perhaps the absence of will since there is strong money in terms of multinational companies that weigh GMO products and probably harder to publish these results in the general public, I may work together with my colleagues to find these results on people, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34691	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34692	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For starters, I'm just going to read the parts of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and finally say why I'm reading it. The debate on the provisions relating to liability for damages specifically warned that the final proposal did not properly address the issue of responsibility for the damage to contamination. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The final proposal should, in a clearer way, establish responsibility for the damage, whether or not it is an accidental cause of harm or action in accordance with the Law. In the opinion of the Committee members, it would be useful to oblige the applicant to apply for the introduction and placing on the market of GMOs for damages in cases where GMOs are authorised. This is just a brief review of the Committee on Labour, on social policy. The Legislative Committee, just one paragraph. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act but the name of the Law, Article 2. However, due to a number of technical and technical provisions in relation to its work, the Committee makes comments and suggestions on a number of shortcomings in order to remove them by submitting its amendments and concerns, I will also read to you the review of the Croatian Agronomic Society in 14 short lines on this Act, the proposal for a law. It is not in line with those national strategies and is only partially adhered to. It does not comply with some of the provisions and rules of previously passed laws. It does not adhere to the basic principles of EU legislation relating to GMOs. Respect for the freedom of choice of consumers and producers to ensure the sustainability of agriculture, the principle of precautionaryness and objectivity of scientific debate and public participation. It's no use, and it doesn't stress the precautionary principle enough. It does not allow counties, municipalities and cities to commit to a GMO free region. It is absurd to base the new law on the unfulfilled dreams of the advocates of this new science because unfortunately, in the case of genetic engineering, only failures are recorded, why no even more numerous arguments are made against these technologies. If a GMO crop is potentially hazardous to human and animal health, if it endangers the environment and biodiversity if it does not possess an economic advantage, a minor crop, a greater consumption of herbicide, secticide and fungicide, a difficult placement on the market which is the reason that the law approves imports and sows such crops and even after the accelerated procedure. The law does not protect Croatia from foreign investment in risky scientific research that is banned in a country that invests in financial resources. Experience shows that in responsible officials related to the introduction of GMOs into a country potentially victims of bribery and corruption, especially if we know that some companies have more income than one Sweden. The method of determining possible damages as well as liability, i.e. compensation if possible for any damage caused by the use or transport of GMOs is not sufficiently defined. Due to such major fundamental failures, we believe that such a law cannot pass after a partial grooming but should be completely rejected and joined by the creation of a new law according to Croatia that will see Croatia's economic prosperity in organic agriculture and protected from pollution with GMOs. We suggest that the new GMO Law draft is done by a multidisciplinary team of experts from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Culture and Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Health, and not just by one ministry, as was the case now. We propose to consider the possibility of making public statements through a general referendum on the way of regulation of GMOs in Croatia because of the vital interests of the people of this country. We ask that the national development strategies of the Republic of Croatia be fully respected when writing the new Law. These are remarks in front of the Agronomic Society of Croatia. I wonder, I also ask you gentlemen here whether Croatia has a need, economic, political or other for haste, what a haste, when we know that our problems should first be solved and about agricultural land and the production of organic and... agriculture itself. Our production with some changes is not only enough for our country but we are certainly ready for export. Tourism and GMO food, gentlemen, this cannot go together, I assure you that in 10 years anyone who has normal agricultural production will certainly be one of the most attractive destinations especially in tourism. All these reasons not to mention health hazards, the greatest risk of spreading GMO seeds and plants to the environment, which can be inconspicuous consequences, dangers, addiction and seed, we know that the seed is produced only in the most developed countries. That is why I can support the position of GMOs in Croatia but only for scientific purposes and with the highest degree of protection. Only when we come to such results that GMOs have control without great dangers can we accept such a way and such a seed in Croatia without haste. For example, Prof. More yet to be released into the production of wheat seeds that are 12 years old while working it, it takes it 3 years and 6 destinations in the Republic of Croatia to allow it to be released into production. Unfortunately, we are asked that GMO seeds can be released to Croatia and production within the shortest time limit without any attempts. This law does not sanction those who introduce GMOs on purpose or not into the environment and we know that the great danger is precisely from enlargement because it can develop in nature and uncontrollably spread. For all these reasons, I don't want to be boring and repeat what my colleagues have already said. I'm not against GMO law, I'm in. But it is obvious, gentlemen, that this law should go into third reading and I support the view that this law goes into third reading and that what my colleague said yesterday, Mr Miljenko Doric, we need to have a topic at least once a year in the Croatian Parliament on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34693	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34694	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague Kurtov said a sentence with which I fully agree that tourism and especially high tourism and GMOs should not and should not go together. Unfortunately, we are witnessing in the Republic of Croatia too much food imports. We also know that we have a food agency that was founded and started working in Osijek. But the question is how many guarantees are there, because we had a few under quotes from the affair that we had GMO food in pâtés and I don't know what not. So it was denied. The question is how much food there really is in that large import. So it seems to me that if we want to be great patriots, as often as we all talk and talk, we should go after it to increase domestic food production on one side, and on the other hand to watch what we sell and how we sell. I expect, especially from the food agency, great progress in all this. However, it is obvious that the sale of especially our hotels on the coast of tourist areas and everything else will lead to the fact that foreigners will import more food than ever before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34695	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34696	Well, I can only answer my dear colleague to fully agree with him. DA this without this law today is also possible some manipulations that can be in food GMOs in Croatia and especially by importing direct foreign companies that have their hotels on the Adriatic and their tourist settlements, they directly import food without control, without Croatian control. I think this law should cover everything and I think Croatia needs this law, I just stress again that it should go into third reading, because of all these opinions that this law is too important for Croatia and the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34697	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34698	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a few words to the bill on genetically modified organisms. We are aware that today's standard of living is difficult to imagine without a single advance in science and technology. However, this very rapid development of biotechnology does not allow you to see all the overall follow-up actions of the use of GMOs on nature and on human health. It is impossible to stop globalisation which, as a negative side, has market liberalisation and also as its positive side has greater availability of knowledge and information. It is therefore necessary to consider positive and negative amounts of use of GMOs. Research shows that most of the inhabitants of European countries believe in the harmfulness of products from GMOs, mistrust with these products goes so far as not to even want to use a GMO product that has greater nutritional values. Like. Gold rice or bananas with hepatitis B vaccine. The source of data from 2001. The public's view of the potential danger to GMOs for the environment and health has resulted in the European legislation being stricter than the Cartagena Protocol. Protocol on Biosafety, written by the Republic of Croatia. In an analysis of who has the most economic benefit from the use of GMOs in agricultural production, it is evident that the highest benefit is achieved by the agricultural producer who, with the cultivation of GMO crops. 76% of the total benefit for soybean farming and 42% of the total benefit for cotton farming. The remaining economic benefits of consumers ranged from 4% to 7%. The Centre for Economic Research of the Americas 2000 data source Therefore, it is evident that the end-user does not benefit much, and that the greatest benefit comes from the one who produces it. That is why the proposal for this law must be particularly lukewarm because we are all consumers, consumers of this product. And mistakes that could possibly happen with environmental emissions can then have far-reaching consequences. All the above is the basis for a decision on our fundamental attitude towards GMOs. The European legal framework is also a framework for decision-making. But with its precautionary principles, it gives us the opportunity to make a strategic decision on whether and in what form we want to use GMOs. If we want to develop a sector of market-oriented competitive agricultural economies, how do we want to achieve it? Here today was already in the debate both from fellow Loncar, and from colleague Trakostanec. So we can do this in several ways by producing, commercial products of standard quality or by producing more special quality products. From organic to traditional products of protected origin and designation of origin. If with agriculture, tourism is our strategic activity I ask the question of what kind of tourism we want to develop. One which, with the comparative advantages of preserved biological and landscape diversity, will offer traditional and ecological products, as the most economic benefits of the research are seen by manufacturers. In case we take advantage of the opportunities that European regulations give us through precautionary principles. And if we slow down or disable GMO entry it will be necessary to come up with a series of incentive measures to compensate manufacturers for potential profits. As the problem of GMOs has so far been regulated under the Law on the Protection of Nature through General Provisions, more has been said about the need for total conservation of nature. In this proposal of the GMO law there are other provisions on information, there are no provisions on informing public participation relating to GMOs in the previous regulation. The release of GMOs into a special law has partly lost its previous context. Especially in the part of access to information and public participation. In order to meet the European Union standards and ensure that our GMO regulations are also in line with WTO rights or that GMO approval is clearly transparent and that it is not discriminatory it is necessary to make amendments to the draft laws. Which I personally proposed through several amendments that I believe a large part of them will be adopted in the final proposal. What I would still point out is that this bill has a PZE mark which is our obligation to comply with European laws. And the draft law is not fully in line with the 2001 European Regulation and Directive 18. In the title of the accession programme to the European Union since 2005, Chapter 3-22 concerning the environment, and we have recently adopted it, it has been indicated that the GMO law will be partially harmonised. It is certain that the law cannot be fully harmonised because of the different situations and institutional structures. But some important parts of the directive are not listed. That's what they were talking about. Noisy and some other colleagues in the debate yesterday. For example, in the preamble to Directive 18 of 2001 in the preparation of the Directive, special concerns on the precautionary principle under this principle must be taken into account in the implementation of the Directive. Furthermore, the role of the public and the consultation of the public is highlighted in the preparation and implementation of all the measures set out in the Directive. When it comes to risk assessment, particular attention must be paid to organisms containing a gene of resistance to antibiotics, which in the discussions yesterday was a lot of talk. The introduction of GMOs into the environment shall take place step by step, or gradually, if previous steps do not show a negative effect on the environment or human health. The risk assessment must be carried out in accordance with point 27 of this Directive. The role of the Scientific Committee and decision-making in consultation with them is highlighted. I think maybe we should devote a little bit more to caring and align all the parts of the directive like her, because she's a lot, I'd say a lot too. In my proposal for amendments, I would not particularly explain them, but I would just point out that in this bill and also in the proposal some other laws coming from this resolution ministry are not paying attention enough attention that some other ministries have to decide on certain matters. First of all, I think that the resolution ministries must be as familiar as this ministry where they now belong to GMOs. First of all, I think of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and also in the proposal for a law on the protection of nature and this, the ministry has been resolutely left out of some decisions. And the same especially annual report, which should be submitted to the body, is submitted only to the body and not to the Government. Then I wonder how a colleague, here's an assistant minister from the Ministry of Agriculture, will get information about it if it's not an obligation for that body to provide it with both information and information to the resolution ministry. And because of all these proposals that were here yesterday and today, I think it might be a good idea to go to third reading anyway and bring all these proposals together and get really one law by then. Because on this law, it is not a common law, this law, if it were to be wrongly applied, could be very dangerous for human health and for bringing things into the environment that should not be introduced as such. And in that part if it goes into the third reading, then this is, later on, I'll withdraw the amendments, if I don't ask that the proposer be obvious about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34699	Thank you very much. We're going to a five-minute club debate. First respected representative Bozidar Pankretic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34700	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Well, let me maybe point out a few important things in this debate itself, I'd say the debate we had on the board. I'd say the board has been very good at discussing this issue. So let me stress what is important to the Committee itself, which is that this law is not in line with the national strategy for environmental protection, the national strategy for agriculture and fisheries, and the national strategy for forestry. It is further indicated that there is not enough emphasis on the precautionary principle Croatia received by ratifying the Cartagena protocol. This principle provides the possibility of legal rejection of the sowing of genetically modified crops until the studies remove suspicions of potential harmfulness or danger. The debate also warned that the proposed law does not allow counties, i.e. local communities to opt for a genetically modified free region. As we know, 8 counties of such a GMO free region have already declared. It also does not give the local community the opportunity to participate in decision-making on the introduction of GMOs into the environment. The question is also asked, if some genetically modified crop is potentially hazardous to human or animal health, if it endangers the environment and biodiversity, if it does not possess an economic advantage, which is the reason that the law approves the import and sowing of such crops and even after the accelerated procedure. It is also considered that the method of determining possible damages to irresponsibility, i.e. compensation for the damage caused by the use or transport of GMOs, is not sufficiently defined. It is also thought that it would be good to consider the possibility for the general referendum to declare the law we are talking about today because we believe that the law is of vital interest. And allow me maybe a few more words about myself, and here's the total debate. Listening to almost all the speakers yesterday, here and today it was almost impossible to hear that any of the speakers advocated deliberately releasing GMOs into the environment or sowing genetically modified crops. Almost no one. If none of the MPs here stood up for it, then I wonder, you and myself, with what right we will pass the law. And as far as I've seen on the board of colleagues from the HDZ Club, they've backed such a law, which then allows us to pass such a law. I think the real proposal is to still discuss this law, to propose a third reading, to find a model by which we will ban the seed of GMO crops, to find a model like we heard here from the debate, to come up with new European Union directives, I think we all need to discuss this together. We're still a little behind on these directives here. We've got so much time, we're in no hurry to pass this bill by emergency now. I appeal to all MPs independently of party membership that given the importance of this topic we propose reading this law for the next time, i.e. The third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34701	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34702	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Many in the debate mentioned God’s, cosmic, and natural laws. And this law is also against God's and cosmic and natural laws. So there's a clear answer and the position of the HSP Club that we can never be for this kind of law. We can only support GMOs for medical and scientific purposes, but no other purposes. So let's take a step, declare Croatia a free zone of GMOs, make a future for Croatian generations and make a future for the development of Croatia's economy, agriculture and everything else. It is a dangerous and worrying fact that this law is only supported by SDP and HDZ clubs. It is dangerous and worrying because such support when they are somewhere together has never worked out well for the Croatian people. It never ended well for the Croatian people. It is also a dangerous fact that the European Union has allowed genetically modified organisms. The pressure of the United States. So there is no need for us to bow to the European Union, and we know for ourselves what the situation is. We thank God here have the opportunity to declare Croatia a free zone and make a country of prosperity. It's really explicit to talk about the law itself, just to refer to Article 3 of the so-called Law. The division of jurisdiction between 5 different inspections and various state bodies and it is right to know when it comes to the division of jurisdiction that in the end no one is responsible for anything, or that you know that system of misdemeanour, will always be responsible for someone third or fourth. But this way of doing so is inadmissible and therefore we suggest to the government that within an hour we withdraw this law if it wants to be good for Croatian citizens, because this kind of thing can't really be allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34703	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34704	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the ministry. The IDS Club cannot and will not support this Final Proposal of the Law on genetically modified organisms first because we come from a region that has been shown not to have genetically modified organisms in its space. On the other hand, we hear here that eight other counties are against such genetically modified organisms, and I think it should mean something to the ministry gentlemen. As far as Croatia is concerned, I really believe that this law de facto wants to give up sustainable development in Croatia, to place its citizens in the position of experimental rabbits, of course those global corporations. To reduce the nation's ability to feed on its own in a traditional way. To deprive its agricultural producers of the opportunity to exploit the growing demand for natural food in the world and expose them to the danger of even worse business. We know that the Ministry of Agriculture must subsidize its farmers and we do not give them the opportunity to develop in that part that is most favourable to them, which is traditional fruit and vegetable cultivation. It also reduces the democratic rights of its citizens, because they are denied the right to free choice, i.e. the possibility of being told not genetically modified organisms. We saw the same poll that 10% of citizens support GMOs, and 90% do not, which, in our opinion, is one of the most important things. This is really about which citizens of Croatia should decide as units of local self-government and of course that regions must have the right to plead for or against GMOs. Unfortunately, this law does not give them that possibility. Our requirements from the IDS club are certainly to disallow the introduction of GMOs into the environment of Croatia. Allowing the declaration of counties and units of local self-government zones free of GMOs and rigorous penalties for offenders including, of course, damages that are not seen here in these documents, i.e. this law, which could arise in the consequences that counterpart Pankretic had previously said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34705	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34706	Here I would like to correct my colleague, Doroteu Pesic-Bukovac, when she said that the regions should be enabled and that the referendum should enable this. So let's just take your county, I'll just tell you two cultures. In Istria, there are corn, in that corn all the seeds "paionir" already have GMOs inside, in tomatoes as well. There is a lot of industrial tomatoes in Istria that go for our "Podravka" and have GMOs in it. I said earlier in my debate, I am against any unnatural influence on nature because it comes back as a boomerang, but we already have it, but we now have to pass a law on how to protect itself from it. We can't be an island and let's not politicize here, this is an extremely important area and we need to be here consensually because this law will in many ways determine the future of our Croatia. We've already got GMOs here. Whoever says we don't have it doesn't tell the truth. And we've had it for 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34707	Thank you. Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhnil on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34708	Dear President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that we at the National Minorities Club support the adoption of this law because it is the only basis for it to monitor the cross-border movement of GMOs, production in limited space, production in nature, not to mention food. But the law itself is not enough unless we have a high - quality laboratory, but also with scientists who will be able, as well as scientists who select genetically modified organisms, to respond to what genes are used, how they move in plants, how they move in nature itself, how they affect the environment, and how such plant material is broken down in nature. It is not enough to use the arguments of more expensive seed, more expensive herbicides and less production if the parallel is not given the answer, as it is possible that such soybean, such corn, such oily rapes are cheaper and more competitive. Do we then doubt our peasant that he will not know in that case to choose and that he cannot count? I'm sure he knows very well. We have also heard that under organic production about 1600 hectares is already in production, 2000 prepares for what I've already pointed out here in correction, it's only 3 permeations of our working surfaces and I can really say that it proves that in Croatia we have an extensive area for organic food, that we also have a surface for conventional production, but also GMOs if it is strictly controlled. With the quality marking of genetically modified organisms, we leave it to the citizens and the market to choose them. Let us stop unargumented and by nothing proven claims to frighten and exploit that fear. Let us try to use part of biotechnology as well in agriculture as medicine and pharmaceuticals do today in the manufacture of medicines and without which the production of medicines is unimaginable today, and therefore human health. I must say that for all of these reasons, we also support this law, but I agree with Mr Doric that this law will be subject to frequent changes in the way both science and biotechnology will do, that is to say, progress independently on the policy and negative selection of information and that science will give new knowledge that I agree that they can be both negative and thus also dictate the application of biotechnology. We therefore support it from these grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34709	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34710	Your Honor, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague said let's stop unargumented assaulting GMOs. Well, 90% of Croatian citizens oppose it, and I think it's one of the strongest arguments. And it's also an incorrect allegation that we're bound to allow the market to determine the rules of the game. Well, the market only has a profit interest, not a protection of Croatia's natural resources and the future of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34711	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34712	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Chuhnil who said she was scaring someone with a GMO. I would say no one is afraid but it is a real precaution and I think those who cite different examples and who say that a particular selection of data is being done and that only certain data that are trying to intimidate the Croatian population around GMOs and crops and organisms is not an accurate quote. Therefore, it is a reality, with this reality some do not want to reconcile but most of the Croatian population are aware of it and I believe that this public will have an impact on representatives in the Croatian Parliament to oppose this law thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34713	And the third correction by the respected representative, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34714	I would like to correct my colleague Mrs. Zdenko Chuhnil in that section that the citizens have the right to choose. Well, surely they have the right to choose, it is evident that in the morning in the market first all the fruits and vegetables that were grown in a traditional way disappeared first, and that is clearly an indication of what our citizens want, and also in the survey, 90% were evident for a traditional way and 10% for GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34715	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ Club, Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34716	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government's representatives. It is a pity that the public did not follow this extremely rich and reasoned debate at the Croatian Assembly on this important issue so that it arrived on the agenda last night when the transfer stopped, this morning one part went also so that there was no transmission and I think it was a great shame that the public did not listen to such discussions, but so it is, we are going in some order. I would like to say as I said last time in my first reading that the problem we are discussing is important but also as a reason why I dare say it is not enough or weak knowledge, and I don't rule out myself who think I know a little more about it than an average citizen, but every blow to the cold shows that we don't know the problem enough, and it's no wonder, there's not enough experience in scientific circles and there's not enough time-out and there's enough reasoned scientific research that would give us certain assurances that we can now, in this situation, discuss this issue in a quality and reasoned way. We have Croats, one scientist who belongs to the elite in the world field of genetics, though human genetics that has just organized the start of the institute in Split on the study of life, is a professor of academics Miroslav Radman who considered to have broken the genetic code, which has brought together two bacteria that have not been combined for 200 million years and which argues that I will freely interpret that all of what is epochal in scientific discoveries happened because of some genetic changes due to mutations caused by various incentives and that the birth of such genetic changes is carried in itself and in human illness medicine, but it carries and answers to these diseases, or the possibility of testing of medicines or diseases, which have also been caused by mutations caused by different influences, genetic engineering or some others, say the entire selection of biological organisms particularly in biology is the consequence of some genetic changes, which have not been caused by one natural disease, which have also been caused by one human beings to be able to produce before the age. So, and it was genetics just wasn't caused by these procedures that are now being challenged. I mean, we can't declare that we're untouchable, it's as if I'm being a bit banal as if Croatia declares to be the world football champion, and these others don't recognize it because it doesn't matter that way, we're going to declare it. As my colleague Lončar has said for 15 years there has been a genetically modified organism in Croatia the question of how we can direct and control it, we can do it, we can't be an island, we can't be excluded from the whole world but we can by strict scientific measures, we can control to ensure that the consequences are negative as little as possible and therefore we need to take responsibility, it's easy to say now I'm against it. What we did when we said we were against it, like it wasn't going to be anymore, when we said we were against it. The fact is there is, unfortunately there is one environment that is as it is and we as a country are serious and responsible we need to establish mechanisms that will provide answers and prevent possible abuses and possibly harmful negative consequences, that is what we can do and any proposal to fix it and make it tighter I am sure of it, and my Club will support such measures. The rest of us are in the drum as well as the whole world and small Croatia cannot resist the very declaration can only act, measures, knowledge, and so on to counter the possible negative consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34717	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34718	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so I'm correcting an esteemed colleague and Vice President Bebić because we can be free from genetically modified crops that allow us to make certain declarations that have been passed to us by certain regulations, that of course if we have good control if we have good laboratories we can control it anyway, but it doesn't matter now that we let this law allow the entry of GMO crops and there's an important difference I think we should stress it, it's not true that we can't be free, we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34719	I thank Mr. President, I am also using this opportunity to thank you for the truly comprehensive debate over this extremely important legislative proposal and I am pleased that everyone has in a certain way agreed that it is necessary to prevent GMOs from entering any form of respecting the level of knowledge we have at this point, but also respecting that things are changing daily and that science is moving forward and that these results should be respected. But I would like to remind you that we are not editing this issue for the first time, namely the Nature Protection Act already has provisions, but I would also remind you that the issues that came into question yesterday, which is one of the questions that we have the courage to introduce the seed of GMOs, I must say that last year we had to destroy corn that was imported after we adopted the provisions of GMO seeds, so after we adopted one approach to home in the provisions of the Nature Protection Act. So it says enough that things don't work and that we don't actually have control under the provisions of the Nature Protection Act. And that's why someone asks who has an interest in passing this law. It is of interest that any person who wishes us to control this matter professionally and adequately by the competent authorities and to place ourselves responsibly on this issue. Maintaining existing provisions in the Nature Protection Act means that we do not have the opportunity to effectively decide and implement an appropriate strategy and policy towards the use of GMOs. It was also mentioned very often in the debate that this issue is probably due to the division of lobbys that are for and against subjection and corruption. And in that case, I think it should be noted that the final bill provides a system in which all competent ministries must agree with each other in order to make a decision, and therefore the committees must support such a decision. I think a more restrictive way is almost neither, nor possible. I'm glad the debate also talked about counties that have made decisions that are free from GMOs. But here's the example of corn itself has shown that in these same counties that have made these same decisions there has been crop destruction because seeds that have been polluted by GMOs have been used. And I also thank you for the amendments we are going to consider to improve the legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34720	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34721	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I think Mr. Secretary of State misstated. It is not true that we can in any way and that this law prevents something that is illegal and that someone illegally imports into Croatia. Which he never declared to be a GMO, and we discovered it. We are talking about this law will legally allow genetically modified crops. And that's the important difference always someone can do something illegal. So we have to do control, we have to have labs, we have to control crops more often, and so on. And not now talk about something being illegal, so it's there, so that's why we have to. It has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34722	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Zdenak heard the second correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34723	I want to correct the dominant in a segment that says we destroyed GMO corn last year. I ask some of the responsible what happened from the previous three years when this same corn is shiny at three different locations in Croatia to even enter the list in the last year. Three different locations in many, many repetitions and therefore Croatia is certainly no longer GMO free.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34724	Third correction by a respected representative, Dorotea Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34725	I'd like to correct Mr. Secretary of State in the part where he claimed that there are, of course, GMOs in the counties but the counties are not those institutions that can control whether or not it's a GMO. But the conceptal difference is that you want to bring the GMOs into Croatia in a controlled manner and our concept is how to control that GMOs do not enter Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34726	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Given the numerous amendments to certain proposals of a procedural nature on the proposal for a conclusion that the law goes into third reading and the view of the Government that it will consider all these proposals, we would not vote on this today. In order to leave the Government with room for manoeuvre and opportunity and time and others to think carefully and to study the proposed amendments and proposals of MPs and club representatives. Final proposal of the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 212. The debate on the text of the law is closed. First we have a vote on the proposal for one conclusion, this is a proposal for the conclusion of the HSS Club, which reads: A third reading will be carried out on the final draft of the law. I would like to ask the Ministry's position on this proposal for the conclusion of the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34728	We believe there is no need for the law to go into third reading, respecting that the amendment, and only a few amendments were submitted to the law, and in the debate it was generally supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34729	Thank you. Please, we will vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Please engage. We can vote. How about a score? The final vote was 35, 7 abstentions, 64 against. So the conclusion didn't get the necessary majority. Let's vote on the amendments. The amendment was submitted by representative Zeljko Ledinski. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34730	If you please, Mr. President, we have discussed all the proposed amendments with Mr. Ledinski, and we are prepared to accept Amendment 13 to Article 72 until the other amendments are in a position to accept, and the MP has agreed to withdraw the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34731	My fellow Ledinsky, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34732	I'll take this 13, and I'll take this one back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-22-0.u34733	Thank you. Amendment 13 has been accepted, and the other amendments have been withdrawn. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please engage. We can vote. The result? I note that the proposed law, together with the amendment adopted, was adopted in the text as proposed by the applicant, with 78 votes in favour, 15 abstentions and 5 against. Let's go to the next point; - Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 268; The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Justice. You received the reports at the session. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
