ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52223	We therefore move to - a) The report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on HR and HTV Programmes in the period from 30 June 2004 to 11 July 2005 (b) the HRT Directorate's report after the 2004 operation of HRT, with an independent audit report on the financial reports carried out for 2004 in accordance with Article 19. The law on HRT to the Croatian Parliament has been submitted to the following reports. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Immigration. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. HRT Director-General Mirko Galić. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52224	Mr. President, you've injured article 16. I raised my hand and, in accordance with Article 16 of that article, I wanted to ask you a question. And now I'm going to say what article 16. I quote "All official materials, documents and data that are being prepared or collected in the working bodies of the Assembly and the Professional Service of the Parliament, the Government, the ministries and other bodies of the state administration which concern the topics discussed in the Assembly." I'm still not going. At the last session when this item was on the agenda, I asked Mr. Director of Croatian Radio and Television ten questions in accordance with Article 16 and our Rules of Procedure and I asked you at the same session that all these materials were delivered to me on all the questions I had asked him until today I did not get it. That's why I asked for the word that Mr. Director would now explain to me here personally, the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public why I didn't get it in accordance with my rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52225	That if you didn't get it, if the MP didn't get it. One question is from a member of the Government if he does not get a representative committee and if he does not receive an answer from the director of HRT or any other public authority, it is a very different question. Now I hope you get those answers. Here you go, Mr. Galic! Please, Mr. Merchantevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52226	Mr. President, I appreciate you. But if we stick to the Rules of Procedure's injuries, that's when I raised my hand on behalf of the club you wouldn't let me. If you'll allow me to take this opportunity now. After my warning that the principal is being shown on this matter, that he's just telling us everything was professional in the work. That's all we wanted to know, or not. On this occasion, I'm asking for a ten-minute break so that we at the club can discuss how to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52227	All right, gentlemen, do we have a situation now that we're asking for the director to be seen on a show and we're starting a debate with it? You asked for a break. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's a ten-minute stop for the HSP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52228	At 9:51 a.m., the break time is up. The ones who asked for a break are gone. Mr. Galic, give one indication of these requirements, one review of yesterday's show. I will not quote here the code of honour of Croatian journalists, according to which a journalist in his work should be managed by general principles and the ethics of a journalist's call, to present true, balanced and verified information. Respect professional distance to current events which one according to the Code of Honor of Croatian Journalists conditions for objective, professional reporting of events and respect and defence of human rights, dignity and freedom... the historical truths, the law and the constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Galic. You gentlemen are four minutes late. You're too late. [[The intruders don't understand.]] You'll get it, you'll get it. If it was, if it was specified exactly when the time was at 9.51pm. You're here at 9.56. ... I know exactly how long the break was and I know exactly how much, and it was measured exactly with the time it was when the break started and the break started. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What do you want from me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You want to make a statement. [[Intruder: We want to make a statement.]] And why are you too late? Was it a traffic jam? [[Intruder: Well because it was a traffic jam.]] Well, you asked for a break. You were here, in no traffic. All right, all right. Mr. Galic, please place the representative of the HSP Club. Here you go. ... You, Mr. Cain, when you get your word, then you'll talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Sir. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Please! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52229	Mr. President, gentlemen, Chief Director, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Namely, why we've even come to this question and why we've been looking for a break. I think it's clear to you all that you saw last night's "Latin" show and you could experience that for the first time, the late first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman was portrayed as one of the greatest criminals. As a man who caused war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a man who rehabilitated the Ustasha regime. As a man who wanted and had a dream to mix the bones of Ustasha, the natives and the partisans. As a man who designed and implemented the strategy of organised robbery of the Croatian state and Croatian people. Not only is the first president of the late Franjo Tudjman portrayed as such, but the entire show shows the entire Croatian people as inadmissible. This show actually wanted to prove that the Croatian state as many outside this country, unfortunately and in it think it was created on crime, which is also unacceptable. So after we could see yesterday from noon on HRT and follow up on reading General Gotovina's indictment with, I must say a forged translation of HRT in the evening after that on the Latina show we could listen to and watch a monstrous indictment but not of The Hague court but of the Croatian first president, Dr. Franjo Tuđman and the Croatian people, and this time, gentlemen without translation. That's why we at the HSP Club are asking for the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television to be made clear and loud and unequivocal about the indictment last night on the Latina show. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52230	Mr. Galic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm very sorry perhaps more regrettable than to you that this debate which should have been addressed to the fundamental issues of development... Excuse me, we begin with the development of Croatian Radio and Television with a question about a show that certainly caused and hired a lot of emotions and a lot of legitimate questions whether it should have been asked and conceived in the way it was carried out last night? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I fully understand the concerns, emotions and rational, rational critical attitude towards this show and a number of other shows that Croatia is broadcasting and Croatian television which is more involved here. I also understand and support and understand the concern of preserving the level of free action of the journalistic and editorial profession not only in the strongest Croatian media but also in all Croatian media. The question is how to reconcile those two interests, and the two reactions and those, those two attitudes. They can be reconciled. Last night's show that I watched as you did for the first time because I've never been in five-and-a-half years and more than I've ever been at the head of HRT, I've never once been in the direction, I haven't asked for any of my contributions to be reviewed before the broadcast. It's not my legal function and my legal responsibility. The law has laid down the powers and responsibilities of the Director-General quite precisely and, among other things, has given him both the responsibility and authority and the obligation to protect the legality of the operation and the functioning of which includes not only the legality of the business but also the legal setting and legal content of the programme itself. In other words, the programme will be in line with the law, the elementary Law on Croatian Radio-Television, on media, electronic media in particular. It is also in line with the code of journalistic profession and the code that exists on Croatian radio television. Before the debate and the eve of last night, last night's Latina broadcast, I had my own regular college on Monday mornings, with it I start working week and one of the topics if not the first was what was in Latina tonight? I don't look, I don't intervene, I don't have editorial powers. But I have the right to, on behalf of my responsibility, that the overall operation of the house for legal conduct should seek information on emissions, in particular whether they are in line with legal obligations and professional criteria and standards. It's before the show, every show is the only place and the only argument I can work with. Then it was said by the editors responsible that there were certain errors and that they would be corrected. Some of these failures are corrected, but not all of them are of no importance. They don't matter in last night's show, we'll discuss it in detail both at the college in the principal's office and at the program college that I don't normally chair, I don't even attend, and on the programming board the president of the council is here, he can talk about it, about the content of Latina itself. My impression first of the journalist, then the editor, then the viewer, and finally the director-in-chief that there is a lot of unprofessionalism, imbalance, non-compliance with the fundamental obligations imposed by the law on the balance of arguments and balance of views that were not met last night. Our fundamental approach is both in this and in any other opportunity to discuss each subject, freely and openly, but no topic can be debated on a superficial, unilateral, biased and tentuous basis. Last night was all of this. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let me finish. I'm not an arbitration officer who would have legal powers in my hand, nor would I replace editors, nor directors of the program, I have the authority of an employer. I have the authority of the employer. There are the institutions of the programme board of directors and the programming council to discuss this and make appropriate decisions. It is certain, not because I would create a working atmosphere here to discuss what we met for, but because the weight of unprofessionalism requires and the corresponding reaction that we will take everyone in our own, within our own powers. Because this, as we had 15 days or three weeks ago, is another example of unprofessionalism that we sanctioned, we need to continue you to defend freedom of work, freedom of expression, freedom of journalistism in editorial action to respond to such drastic cases. But I want to tell you, there's something else I want to tell you. The environment in which we act is such that any editorial intervention or any intervention of the employer, management is interpreted as censorship, as a return to methods of administration and asphyxiation of freedom, and under these conditions is some choice difficult. We don't have a choice here. All bodies of the house must be manifested, declared and made decisions. Everyone within the framework of their powers, their responsibilities and their beliefs. Unprofessionalism must not go away because unprofessionalism is the biggest opponent of the freedom enjoyed by Croatian journalism and enjoyed by journalism on Croatian television. But freedom is not the right to do all that there is no argument and what contains in itself striking, visible elements of tendence and bias. Well sometimes, someone here said offensive, right. We have to take responsibility. I will take over as part of my authority, but all institutions of the house have to face the issue of professional protection in order to protect the freedom we intend to defend. I have a need to finally say that last night's show and let's not maybe be unfair and say it's an exception. Unfortunately, there are non-professionalities almost daily, but at the same time let's not give HRT and his people what they're not guilty of. For a speech or translation that was organised yesterday, it is not the responsibility of Croatian broadcasting. We didn't organize translators at The Hague Court. We've taken over the transmission. So let us be righteous in criticism and what is not right should be criticised and changed, and what is logical should not be touched. I think it is bad that we gave cause for this debate, but I hope that the follow-up of the debate will go on really on those important issues that are fatefully related to Croatia's broadcasting and Croatian media. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52232	Thank you very much, Mr. Director. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Croatian Parliament, the most representative and legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, in the Croatian state. I chair the highest legislative and representative body as president of the Croatian Parliament. And TV in its entirety, as part of public life, as part of the intelligence system is obliged to stick to the code of Croatian journalists, honorable Croatian journalists. She has a duty to stick to civilized principles, to stick to respecting the truth. Yesterday's shows, gentlemen of TV, Latina, were one blast and one counterfeit of Croatian history. It's obviously a trendy one, opposed to all the oatmeal of a journalistic profession. Just as it was a show a few weeks ago that was removed by the editor of Open Tihomir Ladišic, where he tried to suggest and prove that the Croats, along with the Chetnik terrorists, attacked Sarajevo, by falsifying elementary facts. It's on the trail of this. It's on the trail of this. [[Applause]] The Croatian Parliament should discuss this too. It's not a matter of form, it's a matter of one important content. Through this debate, we will also draw appropriate conclusions because we must not allow as the most representative body not to speak resolutely and sharply about it and be hampered by the alleged freedom of the media. It is not the freedom of the media to falsify the truth, it is not the freedom of the media when the basic historical truths and facts are served in a degutant, rude way that irritate a vast part of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens. Now let's go on the subject... Please, let's not, this was the protagonation of one gentleman, the introduction, the zero point one where I asked for your wish to be made manifest by the head director of HRT. [[Applause.]] Don't go with the correct allegations, let's go on the subject and then you'll go with the debate, because this isn't the beginning of the debate. Let's go to the hearing now. HRT Chief Director Mirko Galic. Here you go. And now take advantage of both the occasion and the occasion to be more accurate and clear on all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's to say that I have the honor of defending five times in a row from you as founders and owners or representatives of the owners and founders of Croatian Radio Television, its annual business and that I can say the fifth time in a row that the annual business balance was positive. The very fact that during 2004 Croatian broadcasting in the most difficult market conditions it has ever known has achieved a positive result, I think it can satisfy those of us who are leading and responsible for this house, and I believe the public in that part of our operation. Because business, development, modernisation are the conditions for a stable programme and a stable performance of social and media functions, the strongest media houses in Croatia. In 2004, which is on the agenda of the debate, Croatian broadcasting may have had a decisive stage in its development, decisive in terms of rounding technology, new technology. It is decisive in terms of creating production conditions for quality work and quality program and decisive in terms of the development of software qualities that led to Croatia's TV and Croatian working at the head according to listening criteria, i.e. ratings, and that we are at the top of the criteria of trust shown by the public. I am sorry, I will say this once again, that certain outbursts, incidents, errors, unprofessionalities question or cast such positive results into the shadows, but I, in the name of regrets for such failures, cannot say that Croatian broadcasting in 2004 was not only a positive business but also, according to other indicators, very successful on the market. For the first time in last year, Croatian broadcasting went completely into the market and got the strongest, almost the strongest possible competition in two foreign companies with capital behind them, which have experience behind them, which have strong ties behind them. RTL and CMI came to Croatia first of all to realise their business but also their media and other interests. In that year, Croatian broadcasters managed to maintain a leading position with regard to the market share of marketing, which is very important in terms of the impact that is measured between others and the public's confidence in our programmes. Since the spring of 2004 Croatian television broadcasts for the first time after 10 years, 15 years on two programmes. One program was privatised under the terms of the Government, i.e. the Croatian Parliament and on two television programs we managed with only two television programs, so with one less programme, we managed to achieve revenues that were almost equal to the revenues we had a year earlier with three programmes, by 1.2% are smaller, but by about 2.5% higher than we could plan and on the income plan we had a successful year. As for costs, expenditures, there was an increase above the plan by about 3.5% but the increase which was mostly caused by the fact that the depreciation increased by about 22%, that we raised salaries that were extremely low in relation to both competition and other media in Croatia, and one with the other led to our costs growing, but the overall result was positive, less than in 2003, but given the newer conditions it could satisfy us. Especially since we took at least two strategic operations in 2004 that must lead to the rationalization of our business and our behaviour. One thing is that we have prepared a monitoring system, an electronic surveillance system that must affect the raising of work discipline and another that we have prepared a tender after two cycles of consulting work or working with foreign consultants for a new integrated IT-business system that should lead to greater rationalisation and better transparency of our business. Croatian broadcasting in the year which was the subject of this debate led to the completion of a major study, three major studies fully equipped, digitised, which were built for 10 years. Croatian broadcasting has modernised digital reporting cars and radio and television potential. I'll tell you about the comparison. The Croatian radio has acquired the latest tonne car in 1997. Now we've got a new one and another one's ordered. It happened to us because of the longevity that in one day, even two cars were out of use because of the banal causes of engine failure or wheel loss. Today we have among the most modern news car so well composed of the mind of our people that foreign televisions come to Croatia to observe and take our experience as one of inspirations or one of the sources for our own decisions. We have a fully digitized information system that has already started working in the morning news and in the evening news. And from 15.5 next year, on the 50th anniversary of television and the 80th anniversary of radio, the whole production will go digital. In addition to major European television, there are few televisions and public radios that have managed to digitise their equipment and their production system to this end. I will say that Eurovision, that Eurovision recommends Croatian broadcasting to its members as a place of study. Here's the letter I got two days ago. "We consider," this is Eurovision's opinion, "that HRT is an excellent example of television that has limited resources and manages to digitise. What you have achieved should be an inspiration to the television channels that have contacted us, much more than BBC, Germany or French television." On this plan I think we have done a lot and on this plan Croatian broadcasting today is completely equal with the largest television houses in Europe. The question is, how do we use this potential, can we use it better, can we do business with it more rationally? We may and may need to, but we need to adjust to market conditions and market criteria of demand, among other things, time. With the introduction of the support information system, we will certainly enable better, more rational management, including with these technical potentials that we have prepared in the meantime. Croatian television has completed complete digitisation on Prisavlje, but not only in the informative part of our programme but also in what we call slow transport. And started digitizing archives where the radio archive went further, more forward. The television archive as a major national and cultural treasure is also on preparation and in the beginning, but there are also taking the first measures to preserve and archive which is in poor condition because it is in one format and in a release that could not remain without suffering greater damage. The part's already damaged. Studies, new studies are among the best, best equipped, looking at lighting and watching the technical digital equipment of studies in Europe. We did this by our own means, investing in the total investment cycle, in 5 years more than 5 hundred million kuna. And that's something that gives this house an advantage over competition because we have production and technical conditions that don't exist, and at least in our competition. And that will remain the advantage of HRT and HTV for a few more, certainly a few more years. However, we are facing problems of rational and good governance. And the criticisms that go that way must have a foundation. Our business is according to audit reports and findings neatly, but in our business there are still irregularities. I would like to say that, given the criticism that previous criticisms are likely to be made here today, an internal audit was set up in Croatia 5 years ago and that no contract or legal act is signed without prior consent and approval of the audit. That our legal service is the second step that must be passed before the contracts are signed. And I would say that every annual financial report is subject to an audit of an independent financial house selected in a public competition. That in all these years, the state audit has been regularly reviewing our business and that the last time she left the house was days or weeks or so ago. Revision of business 2003/2004 I would say further that all state labour, tax, financial, very often some and four and five times in one year have been looking at our business and monitoring our work. We have the right to believe after all that business is neat. In addition, with the authority of financial independent audits, they can say that the financial reports are shown realistically and objectively, that they maintain objectively all the important movements of money, property and that they are made according to the applicable Croatian laws and regulations and according to international standards. Those are the facts we hold to. We don't rule out the possibility, we don't rule out that there are failures and weaknesses and mistakes in our business, but we've done a lot to make them smaller and according to the comparative finding of the audits they're getting smaller and smaller. One more thing I said in part, and I'm going to say in part about the program itself. The Directorate has no operational authority over the programme. Programme orientation brings councils, the implementation of programme orientation is in the hands of programming people, editors, editor-in-chief, programme director and their colleagues. But I would like to say that I share responsibility for the programme in this sense that I must insist that the content of the programme, that the basic specifics of the programme are also in line with the legal obligations in the broadest sense and in the most literal sense of the words, and in line with the provisions and values represented by the codes and Croatian journalists' organisations and Croatian broadcasters. Our program is often criticised, often rightly, often with no right. Television is always a matter of special interest. He made one leap and diversity, I believe in quality or at least interestingness, although the other are obligations that we may not have realized between the 2 parliamentary sessions, to make a better balance between those contents that are eminent and belonging to public television and content that have a commercial character. There is no today in any European public television firm division, public-commercial. The boundaries are elastic. But it is certain that Croatian television as well as Croatian radio in its programmes tried to go after it to maintain its dominant position on the market, to preserve the leading place. We have examples, we should not go far in our neighborhood, from Slovenia where public service is much less valuable than in Croatia, from Hungary where it is devastated, from Slovakia where it is in a technically almost miserable state as could be seen in the transfer of a recent tennis meeting. It shouldn't have been on the spot. However, this autonomy that the programme must retain, but based on respect for standards, laws and ethical professional standards, this independence that Croatia-radiotelevision must maintain, because public service must be independent of each government and political and financial, this freedom that is important for the journalistic profession and for its valid expression, it must be followed by an appropriate level and scope and also by the value of professional and responsible work. We are witnesses, they will remember what was last and what was most drastic, but there are also plenty of one-sided and superficialities and bias and tendence, precisely because freedom is not followed by the proper amount of maturity, professional maturity above all. Each subject can be talked about, but no subject can be talked about in a trendy manner, even in the most serious topics and shows. No one, this is our position that the programme council in its orientations and directorship within its principle powers for the programme stands out no one can be protected from a critical relationship, it is undeniably free media, but the right to criticism and the right to research is worth as much as the strong, convincing evidence and arguments used in this regard. No one can be taken away, I'm talking about journalists, journalism, freedom of action and freedom of expression, but freedom is not only the right, freedom is also the responsibility for the freedom of another. In this regard, we are faced almost daily in our discussions with challenges that motivate us to protect the level of independence and freedom of work by raising the level of professionality and responsibility. Finally, let me also say that Croatia has become a priority target for its successful accession to the European Union. Let me remind you that Croatian television can play and play a significant role in both positive and negative terms. We were witnesses, and we can find examples for each other. At the time of the first steps of the Republic of Croatia towards Europe, I think of the Council of Europe in the second half of the 1990s as saying, text marked as one of the problems or obstacles in Croatia's cooperation with the International Community. It is not today and Croatia has worked today at the level of European media standards recognised as one of the equal members of the Eurovision family, as European families will say and beyond. This is also proof of the fact that Croatian radiotelevision has organized the highest Eurovision set, the Eurovision is an association of 70 countries of the European continent and some of our neighbouring countries, neighbors with Mediterranean and via Ural. Dubrovnik hosted, Croatia-radiotelevision hosted, before that were Madrid, Naples, Stockholm, Saint Petersburg, so large countries and large cities. 5 years before that, Croatia-radiotelevision was on the penalty index because of its poor relations and failure to fulfil its obligations to the Eurovision, not to say exclusion from the Eurovision. So, we have taken this step to integrate HRT into the European family and I think it is one big responsibility of Croatia-radiotelevision not only in its international action, but in its daily programme to promote and facilitate Croatia's unification and integration into European political and cultural space. Here, Mr. President, I've been meaning to say so much for the introduction, I'm sure it'll be in the discussion of the cause of more specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52234	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations made by Mr. Director. First, that Croatian radiotelevision ended with a positive score of the business year. This is not true because in 2004, it failed to meet the financial obligations given to it by Article 54. Law on Croatian Radio Television, obligations given to it by Article 58 The law on electronic media, a total of 31 million kunas that have not been paid and have not been shown, are therefore in a secret report. The second correction to the incorrect assumption that the increase in financial positives is the result of HRT activity, which is not true, because in that year 2004, income only rises to fees, so from the pockets of these citizens by 6% while marketing revenue fell by 8%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52236	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52237	Mr. President. Croatian Radiotelevision Director argues that HRT is fully on the market. Mr. Director, if that were the case, then you wouldn't be here, because we can see there's not a single director of commercial television. We see from the report that most of the HRT is funded from the subscription, so our citizens pay even that show they had last night's chance to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52238	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52239	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Mr. Principal stated that they were doing a positive job. I understand Mr. Director that he's trying to really bring order into finance, but I don't know if he sees himself in the company of drunk rich people in terms of their behavior. How you did business positively when you had a budget rebalance, i.e. by budget rebalance for this year, you showed 25 million losses and that you did not actually provide this rebalance with the question of the loss coverage of previous years, and you took credit for the purchase of bad programme licenses for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52240	Fourth Amendment, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52241	I am correcting Mr Galic's incorrect allegations that the development and modernisation of HRT has been carried out very successfully. That's completely incorrect. The development and modernisation of HRT has been implemented wrongly and very unsuccessfully because the priority of modernisation must be to improve the quality of the programme, and this depends primarily on the quality of the people. You haven't said anything about improving the quality of people, editors, schooling, education, professional ethics and everything that determines the quality of the program. Unfortunately, you spoke exclusively of technical aspects, about spending money and you replaced priorities, which is a big, big mistake in the development and modernisation of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52242	Fifth Amendment, Honored Representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct Mr Galic's incorrect claim that HRT had done positive business. According to the 2004 exchange report, there is a clear drop in revenue of 16 million kuna while total expenditures have increased by 47 million kuna, so it is unclear what positive financial report Mr Galic is talking about. It is clear, then, that you did not do business positively and that the costs have probably increased by further stimulating shows such as last night's "Latinica" and similar emissions to which the HRT programme is running.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52244	The Sixth Amendment is the Honorable Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52245	Mr. Galic said, quote, "Employment has no operational authority over the programme", and shortly before, he compared himself to the BBC in the information system. Dear Mirko, but we're officially here. Is it possible that show last night on BBC or any public television in Europe? Is it possible on any public television in Europe that on the day of the biggest Croatian tragedy on November 18th in the Croatian television studio the defenders of Croatian television, there are spit, mud and accuse themselves of defending Vukovar. Dear Mirko, talk about the current professional democracies and once very rigid Stalinists, and look at their early works. On the other hand, what should public television do as a public service, we fought through Forum 21. It should promote positive civilization values and there's a demonstration of self-convinced primitiveism there today. Today there is prostitution of morality, truth and profession. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52246	Thank you. Seventh Amendment of Honored Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52247	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that Croatia's radio-television, as Mr. Chief Director said, raised the level of professionality and responsibility. Maybe it is, but it's impersonal and phantom. Because if it did, we would get an answer here in this exhibit who was actually responsible for last night's "Latin" and dozens of other "Latins" and we've only heard about the impotence or the failures of the principal. I'm publicly asking you who's to blame for that name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52248	The eighth correction by a respected representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Galic said that Croatia's radio-television was doing orderly business. This is incorrect because the annual report of Croatian Radio Television did not show an unmistakable commitment to the state budget of 43 million 946 thousand kuna and a significant drop in profits compared to last year from 67 million kuna to 2.6 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52250	Thank you. The Honored Zdenko Ljevak, president of the HRT Programme Council, will now further explain the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on Croatian Radio and Croatian Television for the period from 30 June 2004 to 11 July 2005. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52251	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly remind those who have long read the report of the Council of the Croatian Radio Television, to remind me of what the Council of the Croatian Radio-Television was doing last year. The second year of work marked an activity related to giving an opinion, as well as its competence, the programme of radio and television orientation, the supervision of the implementation of the programme principles established by the Croatian Radio and Television Law. Since all Council records are published on HRT websites and are made available to the general public in the report submitted, a brief overview of the conclusions and discussions related to the implementation of Croatian Radio and Television programme orientations shall be provided. The Programme Council, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on HRT, gives its opinion to the programme-oriented Croatian Radio and Television. For the purpose of autonomy, the law says, the editorial and journalistic work of the council must not review certain emissions or other parts of the programme before they are published, that it must not make decisions and views on their publication. It is so explicitly in the Law on Croatian Radio-Television. The Croatian Radio and Television Council has opened communications with natural and legal persons who address them on the basis of any questions related to the HRT programme and all these issues that come to the council are regularly discussed and reached conclusions from the competence of Croatian Radio and Television. The programme implementation of the Croatian Radio as well as its implementation in 2004 and 2005 is in line with the Law on HRT. In addition to the debate on this programme, there were no additional comments in addition to the praises we made, the activities and the quality of the radio program. And what was the way he worked in 2004 and 2005, respectively, is taxed in the proposal for a report on the Croatian Radio and Television Council. Given the greater media impact of television in general, both HTV and its public perception of the HRT Council paid much more attention to the HTV programme. The more the council in the program often received reactions from viewers, institutions and associations who addressed directly through the secretariat of television. I would like to mention only some remarks or suggestions, or requirements required from the programme or administrative leadership of Croatian television. The Croatian Television Programme Leadership has been proposed to pay more attention to the programmes on working in civil society organisations, it is proposed that Croatian Radio and Television be included in the education of Croatian citizens about Croatia's accession to the European Community. It is asked by the programme management to focus more on creating quality emissions from culture, education and economy. It is asked by the Directorate to strictly respect the Law on Croatian Radio Television which regulates the time of marketing services. It is requested from the Directorate to notify the Council of the application of Article 52. The Statute of the HRT which speaks of external production and conflict of interest and the application of the Public Procurement Act, given that there are some illogicalities in these areas, and whether the Law on Croatian Radio-Television is respected should be established. The discussions on the HTV programme and the observations related to this were held by individual council members independently of the formal procedure provided for by the law, the programme leadership accepted as much as it assessed, resulting from the proposal for the programme orientation of Croatian television for the period from 20 September to 30 June 2005. The Council gave a positive assessment of the proposed programme orientation, noting that it should be developed specifically in the field of cultural emissions. As part of such a commitment, specific support is given to the tasks which are intended to be achieved by the proposed programme orientations, so I will list them. So, to profile the first and second Croatian TV programmes, consciousness the review program to a minimum, profile the programme and emission blocks according to the whole groups of viewers and establish terms on Croatian radio television, make more shows that communicate with viewers, modernise the software content and use new technologies. As the direction of Croatian television was carried out and how much it was in accordance with the law, the principles and obligations set out in the programme are seen in the report attached to the Croatian Television Programme. On the basis of its supervisory and advisory tasks provided for by law, the Council of Croatia has required the programme leadership to carry out the proposals of members of the Council as part of its work and powers in order to implement, within the framework of the programme orientation of Croatian Television and Programme Policy. So I'm going to name a few. The programme leadership should continuously work on the programming scheme and align it with the interests of all ages of viewers accompanying the programme. The observations of the audience, institutions and institutions warn that more quality emissions from culture, economy, education and science are needed, as is the obligation of public television. Topics from those areas should also be given more space in information emissions. Given that Croatia is a public and national institution, and because it is mostly funded by subscribers, it is its obligation to produce programmes with clear national and public interests and in connection with this, and everything that is prescribed by the Law on Croatian Radio-Television. Something that was given here in replicas or remarks. Special care should be taken about the quality of personnel given to the management of this public institution and staff policy should, human resources should be guided by putting the most capable and professional people they have at their disposal in key places. The habits of the viewers should be appreciated and the timings of the emissions adjusted in this regard. They should be stabilised and in particular monitored by the various populations and their response to the programme to which it is intended. More attention should be paid to the development of the documentary programme, and above all domestic. In this sense, a special place should have documentary shows about Croatian giants that have marked the historical, cultural and artistic eras on a global scale. Journalists need to ensure the most favourable conditions of work and action without fear of any censorship. It is necessary to work on their constant training. Developing a conscience for responsibility and realizing that their work requires great professionalism. The need is also the need for further specialisation of journalists who follow individual segments of social and political life because a journalist expert on certain areas is a presumption of the credibility of media creation that viewers and listeners trust. Different complaints from associations, institutions and citizens of the HRT Council do not have the power to resolve, and in particular those which are asked by the Council in advance to order editors and journalists to undertake certain activities. Since the Council is prohibited from affecting the emissions and parts of the programme before they are published. In this regard, and following the fact that HRT is on the list of bodies with public authority in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, the Council has asked the business and programme management to take such observations seriously and to respond to them. The Council of the Croatian Radio-Television on the implementation of the Croatian Radio and Television Programme for the period under which the report is given is positive and the Council is of the opinion that the adoption of the proposal and the objections that are possible, with the possibility of further improving the radio-television programme, can be provided by the members of the Council to provide a better and more correct programme. The legal obligation of Croatian Radio and Television to satisfy public interests at national and local level and to take care of the proper representation of information, cultural, educational and entertainment programmes will be achieved in the public interest in full form if these programmes are listened and watched. This means that, in addition to those legal obligations, these programmes must have quality, professionalism that will foster the interest of listeners and audiences. As far as the Croatian Radio and Television programme is concerned, I am pleased to tell you that for 2004 the Croatian Radio and Television programme in the Eurovision survey is the most visible programme in Europe as regards public television. And in the end, this session started and began with the actuality of yesterday. I spoke here and the report refers to the period between half 2004 and 2005. On behalf of the Council, I can't say anything, but in person I will say that I am completely dissatisfied, as all MPs are unhappy with the "Latinica" show that happened yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52252	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by respected representative Ivo Lončar. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52253	Mr Ljevak said on the legal frameworks of the programme council that the HRT Programme Council should not review the emissions before broadcasting. All right. But I'll explain it on a few examples. I'll take two drastic ones, but I could say a lot. For example, Mr. Levak you are in conflict of interest as a member of the HRT Council as well as many other members of the HRT Programme Council. I'm asking you nicely if you're not going over how you feel before those shows are advertised and in those TV videos your publishing house? Then what are you doing? On the other hand, I, the journalists of Croatian television, are not my colleagues by anything, but here they are called journalists. These are what used to be called socio-political workers in public information affairs. So they're in the worst "gebelsian" way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52254	Okay, this isn't a correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52255	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52256	It's a replica of
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52257	Well, I'm asking, I said, Mr. President, that I would explain how the program council doesn't work. And it's a correction. Well, you see, Mr. President, you, as former PEN, know what speaking parabolas are. Well, don't do me, I just wanted to say something and you totally ruined me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52258	You must, it wasn't me, you're indestructible. I can't ruin you because you're indestructible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52259	No, sir. I was gonna ask the gentleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52260	But you have to do it in a different form.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52261	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52262	You can't go through rhetorical parabolas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52263	You keep causing a fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52264	Second correction by the respected representative Frano Piploic. A representative should be indicated: I am correcting that and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52265	Mr. Ljevak mentioned that the Council exercised great attention over the HRT programme. And another qualification on the quality of the programme itself praised that it falls to the top, that European television stations have praised the programme. I would have corrected one and the other quote. That they're inaccurate first. It can't be said with 9 sessions of the Council or two in three months that there is a duty of attention to the programme, especially when we have yesterday's show that I have to say is beyond any professionalism, made and made. That a dead man can't defend himself there. That three people who were in conflict for the lives of the late President Franjo Tudjman were introduced into that show and that's how the show was done. That's beyond what professional standard, ethical standard. I mean, it should be a shame to everyone. Unfortunately, no expert and competent persons have been brought in who may be qualified to judge this period. And as for this other qualification that the program is so high-quality, I'll have it later when I have the debate mentioned. Monitoring, there's the institute. a special society that said... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52266	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Third correction, respected representative Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52267	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. Mr. Levak said the HRT Council had successfully done its job. It's simply incorrect and unacceptable. It's unusual for you to evaluate yourself and give yourself a positive assessment. I'm just stating a few facts that you're wrong. This can be seen from the structure and quality of the program. This can be seen from the Council's, the Directorate's and the HRT's relations with fundamental social values. As the Homeland War is inadmissible, humiliating the attitude towards all Croatian defenders, to all citizens of this country. An inadmissible and unprofessional and irresponsible relationship to what is called the knowledge society, the role of knowledge, education and many other things that are fundamental values of modern and modern Croatia. You have done almost nothing but take one of the great unacceptable steps backwards. If I have to do it again, I'll do it 10 times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52268	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52269	Mr. President here, in turn, the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 have been broken, in which the correcters of incorrect allegations are used even as replicas but also as I mean the extension of content by their own discussion. I warn you, since we would all have any objections to individual replicas and certain statements, and we do not want them and we do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure to equate us in these circumstances and in our rights, and that you are strictly holding the Rules of Procedure yourself to allow us to complete this session in an adequate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52270	I'm holding on... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure by crossing that fine border in some zone of border, from correcting an incorrect quote to comment. I'm constantly warning these MPs. I can't warn them otherwise. He's got replicas. Everyone's got replicas. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. President of the Council's incorrect allegations that the council has carried out its duties. It did not work because, according to Article 17. The Law on HRT of the Council also represents the urgent interest of the public by means of supervision. The report does not have any supervision for the reporting period. The second incorrect assumption is that it has fulfilled its obligations because, under Article 19, it oversees the implementation of the programme principles set out in the law. The illegal operation of HRT was not sanctioned, since HRT has been falsely and impartially reported for the whole period, and it reported biasedly and falsely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52272	Fifth Amendment, Honored Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52273	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote. The Honorable gentleman, as far as I counted 12 times, mentioned the word "should", "need" and "should have" and we came here to listen to what was done in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52274	The sixth amendment, honourable representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52275	Your Honor, Mr. President. We've heard "television is national" a few times now. Unfortunately, last night's show was about something else. She testified about something else. The programme council shall not be involved in television shows. So I can agree if every man, an employee has his own psychophysical status as well as a pilot, that he can permanently answer for his job. That's very important. Let's let it go. And what does the Program Council do after the show shows up? We're witnessing these events. Gentlemen, I felt threatened last night, the threat has come to me, and I must say it before you here now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52276	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52277	Thank you very much. I'm afraid Mr. Leviaq's entire report was one big false allegation, but I'm only going to look back, that the council has carried out its duties. No, it didn't do them because you, Mr. Lefty, gave 90% of your exposure to the Condicional. What if it were? Not a single report has been said this way so far in this assembly. I'd like to know what really the Programme Council was doing, not what it was supposed to do. We all know what you're supposed to do, but you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52278	And the esteemed representative, Maria Byte, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Ljevak said that Croatian television is a public and national institution that produces programs with public and national interest, and should produce emissions and Croatian giants. Namely, one of the greats of Croatian history is the first Croatian president Dr. Franjo Tudjman and numerous Croatian defenders, and with the opposite sign we often watch on Croatian television, which I believe is both trendy and incorrect. We don't need any further than last night's example. Secondly, the official use in Croatia is Croatian. Despite 50 lecturers, we are far from the Croatian language standards on Croatian television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52280	Thank you. Reporters of the Committee, Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System? No, I don't. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? Yeah. Dear representative, President Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed these reports on 27 September 2005, and the reports were sent to the Assembly on 29 August 2005. I too at first express my dissatisfaction that these reports are under review at the plenary session of the Parliament. I think we're discussing him today at the best but at the worst of times. Best because yesterday we could testify to an exhibitionist...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52282	Please, Madam President, report to the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52283	... asensationalistunbalancedandunargumented...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52284	Please report to the board. You, as chairman of the Committee, can strictly report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52285	Please report to the board. You, as chairman of the Committee, can strictly report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52286	I, as chairman of the Committee, Mr. President of the Parliament, have the right to express and explain...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52287	You have no right! Here's a report from the Committee. You don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52288	...because the board discussed this report three months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52289	It's not your report. It's the Committee's report. Here you go...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52290	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! You've just...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52291	We won't explain ourselves. Please submit a report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52292	You are constantly allowing the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you are silent about it, and you are unrelenting to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52293	That's not true. Please submit a report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52294	And the moment I want to report to the board, you're stopping me from doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52295	I am not preventing you, but I am warning you that you are obliged to follow the Rules of Procedure exclusively with the reports of the Committee, not your own assessments and opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52296	I'm sticking to the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52297	Don't hang on!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52298	And I want to convince him with my own words. And you won't let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52299	You won't convince him. ... Because the Rules of Procedure are very precise and clear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52300	And I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52301	The Committee shall appoint a rapporteur, whether that is his President or others, who shall submit a report on the conclusions and opinions of the Committee. The content of this report is very clear and precise and there are no additions to their own impressions, opinions, evaluations and conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52302	There are no impressions but there are violations of the Rules of Procedure because this Parliament has not discussed this report in due time and I, as president of the parent body responsible for the debate on this report and responsible for the timely discussion of problems if there are any on Croatian broadcasting, have the right to say so here and to warn. And I do it on behalf of all the benevolent...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52303	You're right one more time! Here we go again! You're not going to pollemize with me on this! You're not going to paralyze the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52304	I don't want to paralyze you, but I'm looking for my right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52305	Are you going to file your report or not? Please submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52306	Thank you very much. I'm afraid the debate on this important report will be in the shadow of something called emotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52307	Thank you very much. He's taking away his word. Here you go!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52308	Thank you so much for showing us the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52309	I take your word for it because you violate and seek protection and freedom to break the Rules of Procedure. And seek protection and the right to abuse!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52310	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52311	Here you go!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52312	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for once again showing what your goal is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52313	Here you go! There's no freedom to abuse! The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52314	Thank you very much. I was gonna cut this report short, but I guess I don't have the right to cut it short, so I'll read it whole. Excuse me, have patience. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 29th session held on 12 October 2005, the report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations established by the laws and programmes of Croatian Radio and Television in the period from 30 June 2004 to 11 July 2005, and the Report of the Directorate on the operation of HRT. The Committee considered those reports as an interested working body. In the opening part of the debate, the members of the Committee in principle concluded a positive shift in the quality of the report submitted, which is seen in the interpretation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT which HRT is required to implement in its programmes in accordance with the provisions of the HRT Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. etc. The law on HRT to produce and/or publish emissions intended to inform members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia to produce and publish emissions intended to inform members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, or Croatian minorities, and to inform and educate citizens about democracy and civil society, the Committee members did not have any objections to the content of the emissions involved in these topics. However, there remains a problem with the time of broadcasting, the duration of the emissions and the programmes on which these emissions are broadcast. It expressed satisfaction with the fact that the "Prizma" emissions aimed at informing members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia were given a permanent term on the first programme, which was found to be in the debate, resulting in a more significant increase in the ratings of the programme and is now at 7%. If it is considered that the share of national minorities in the total population of the Republic of Croatia is 7.47%, then the obvious interest shown by members of the national minorities is that of such emissions. It is proposed to consider the possibility for other information emissions to pay more attention to issues related to national minorities, which is a significant area covering the process of negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. It also noted that this would improve the process of integration of national minorities into Croatian society, the negative effects of isolated monitoring would also be avoided only through narrowly defined minority emissions and would also contribute to greater sensitization of the Croatian public on the issue of national minorities. It was also warned that the creation of the HRT programme should take into account the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee on the application of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages by Croatia. The Committee recommended that Croatian authorities allow speakers to have a linguistic and significant presence on public television as well as to take into account the observations of the expert committee, which in its latest report concludes that minority languages are not sufficiently applied in Croatia and that it is therefore necessary for the authorities to take the necessary measures in cooperation with regional and minority language speakers to develop a television show for each language. I'd read it one more time, but I can't just point it out. I'm sorry to comment. In connection with informing members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, it has been concluded that the "roots and voice of the country" shows are being combined into one show that will be broadcast once a week on a permanent basis on programme 2. However, the opinion is expressed that it is necessary to consider the transmission of that emission to the 1st programme and to increase the duration of that emissions. The proposal is explained by the weak coverage of the 2nd programme signal in many areas where members of the Croatian people live while the possibility of receiving the broadcast on the 1st HTV programme is much better. It is also proposed that within the framework of emissions for children and young people who are both quality and well adapted to this population, a space for monitoring the approximation of the activities of child creation and youth members of both Croatian minorities outside the country and national minorities in the Republic of Croatia is also found. Although the legal obligation of the HRT to adapt the monitoring of the information, cultural, educational and entertainment programme to the needs of persons with special needs, the opinion has been expressed that it remains insufficient on this plan and that this with only one part of the information programme has been resolved. The Council of Europe has also found that, in its 1492 recommendation on the rights of national minorities, the Council of Europe recommended that sign language be treated as a minority language. In addition, if 10%, about 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia are persons with disabilities, these are statistics, which is a fact that must reflect the approximation of other emissions to this population in particular with educational, documentary, dramatic and entertainment content. The opinion that HRT should also work more on the practical application of the principle of gender equality on its programmes, which is also laid down by the Law on Gender Equality. And finally, at the end. Since HRT is obliged to keep the public informed on the facts, events and phenomena in the country and abroad of public interest, it is particularly noted that public opinion can be manipulated through calls from viewers on individual shows. In the creation of the Croatian TV programme must always, Croatian television must always bear in mind the fact that HRT is a public service in the service of all citizens whose subscription is existed. As such HRT must primarily serve objective information to citizens and now it is very important, the question has been asked whether using such uncontrolled surveys that are often used by the most visible shows, there is no such thing in other televisions except in the entertainment programme, HTV departs from the principle of objective information and does in fact have a direct impact on the formation of a public change in political issues. It is pointed out that it is generally known that such polls have a whole series of shortcomings that include the possibility of manipulation because only those who want to report are not scientific polls, they are neither professional. So those on public television when it comes to sensitive political issues should be avoided for the benefit of polling with a more cost-effective representative sample, but TV is doing more work on objective information from viewers and listeners, in which, as an example, the practice of public television by most countries with democratic traditions can serve. Sir... He said he was going to ask that question on the first council, I wonder if it was set. [[You don't understand.]] It has been pointed out that individual emissions are prepared by setting up a specific issue in advance, while the supporters choose to set up a defence as soon as the advocates of the opposite opinion are placed in an unequal position. It also pointed to the problem of eradicating HRT from the list of public authorities for 2005 published by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The list is important as it determines the bodies of the public authorities who are required to provide the requested information. The members of the Committee are therefore of the opinion that HRT must not be exempted from this signature, since as a legal person it has the status of a public institution and 62% of its income comes from the fee... from the citizens. [[You don't understand.]] And I'm done, finally. In the debate, the question of implementation of HRT's obligations to the Pluralism and diversity Fund in accordance with Article 54 is raised. Law on Croatian TV, HRT is required to pay 3% of the revenue resulting from the fee from the owners of radio and TV receivers. It is a fund whose resources should encourage the production of the publication of programme content at local and regional level, which is of public interest and is particularly important for the exercise of public information rights for national minorities for specific programmes in areas of special state concern, etc. In terms of payments to that fund, they're different... The centres of the Ministry of Culture and the HRT which should be clarified in the parliamentary debate. [[You don't understand.]] After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. The report on the work of the HRT Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law and the Management Reports in the operation of the HRT for... with an independent audit report on the published audit of the financial reports for 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, but I had to read everything. That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52315	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? ... Mrs. Antunovic, there is no correction of the incorrect allegations on the committee's report. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's an elemental matter from the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The immigration committee? Well, come in, then. You come in so quietly, so quiet, you don't even get noticed. Committee on Finance and the State Budget, President of the Committee, Honored Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52316	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Director, colleagues and colleagues. To avoid any traps, I will fully read the text of the Committee on Finance's position. At the 39th session held on 5 October 2005, the financial and state budget committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report submitted by the Croatian Council of Programmes to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 29 August 2005. Council of Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the reports in question as an interested working body. The Committee discussed the reports in question without the presence of HRT representatives who were formally invited to the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. In the discussion of the Committee, which was mainly focused on the observations made in the independent audit report on the audit of the financial reports carried out by the HRT for 2004, the following points were made. HRT in 2004 achieved a total revenue of €376 million, which is 2.5% higher than the plan, i.e. 1.21%) compared to 2003, thus the previous one. Total expenditure in 2004 amounted to a billion 372 million, which is 3.5% higher than the plan, or 3.58% higher than in 2003. In 2004, HRT earned a profit in taxes of 3.5 million kuna, charged a profit tax of 829 thousand kuna, and earned a profit after tax of 2.7 million. The financial report in question should therefore be adopted in the opinion of the Committee member. In the opinion, then, once. It warned of the decline in total revenues in 2004 of 16 million 704, 345 while at the same time total expenditure recorded a rise compared to the previous year by 47 million 468,479, which affected significantly lower profits achieved compared to 2003. The total income structure sees a decline in business revenue of 96.25% of total income, and the only business revenue recorded from the previous year was a growth of 6.3.31% of the income from the TV tax, reached 820 million 401,352. While other business revenues record a fall. It is necessary to reduce and rationalise business costs. Particular attention should be paid to a large number of employees. In the year 31.12.2004, 3 000 667 employees, and therefore in terms of high staff costs, which amounted to 440.371,331 in 2004, which accounts for 32% of total expenditure for 2004. It has been observed that no public competition for the purchase of log-in cases has been carried out, although the problem has also been pointed out in previous reporting periods. Namely, the last public competition published for the purchase of logout items was in September 1999. In addition, it is still avoided, although in a slightly smaller scale than in previous years, the procurement process is avoided in such a way as to share the value of the purchase of identical goods and services to a lesser extent in order to avoid the legal obligation of public competition. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee decided unanimously, 8 to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. First, the report on the work of HRT and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on the HRT, HR and HTV Programme shall be taken into account during the period from 30 June 2004 to 11 July 2005. HRT Director's report on HRT's 2004 business with an independent audit report on the audit of the 2004 financial report. Second, the Croatian Directorate-General shall be obliged to make a written statement of the failures and irregularities identified in the independent audit report and to draw up a plan for the necessary measures with deadlines to remove them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52317	Thank you. The immigration committee? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative of Ivica Mastruko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52318	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen representatives. The HNS Club estimates that it is quite obvious that, using the possibility of discussing these reports on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles, that is to say, the HRT Directorate's report on the business and representatives of this Assembly, as well as the public and committees, in fact, want to express their satisfaction in the debate, or their dissatisfaction with certain parts of the television programme. And that is mainly the issue of debate, and mostly the remarks, pleasure and dissatisfaction of that part of the television programme, which refers mainly to a political-informative approach, because in other parts of the programme, it is less touching and less spoken. And it is quite obvious in this House, that most MPs do not speak as viewers but as representatives of certain political options. Which is quite understandable, I mean, it's not unusual. I would therefore like to make a few remarks about politics and politics, of course in the context of political-information emissions, and radio and television. We are starting from the fact that television is also a public, Croatian, state-owned radio, so that these two media outlets are eminently political media. Political media in full and clear, clean and certain. So when we talk about them, we talk about politics. In fact, they are already by being an institution and a public institution. So are the political institutions, and the political institution are already because, which is the founder of the state, which is the founder of this Parliament. All the parts, in fact, of television and radio programs are political. It's political programs. The sports section also promotes, encourages, informs, or in some way talks about all aspects of sports policy. I'm used to sports, but when I talk about the ministry, then I'll use the word sport the same way I speak start instead of start, slalom, sprint, stand, strike, strike, etc. Because they're not mostly words of Croatian origin, so when I use the names of institutions, I'll use it at the Ministry of Sports because it is. I wanted to say that even in the sports part of the show, television speaks from a political aspect because it talks about all aspects of politics. A sport as soon as you have the Ministry of Sports, which is a state institution, of course you also have a sports policy. The same thing is with other shows, and that's why I'm talking about the generality of the political programme of Croatian television as well as the radio, in cultural shows, it's about cultural policy or culture policy that you prefer, then agricultural, agricultural, agricultural policy, education policy, we're always talking about our economic policy, what we need to promote, we have the Ministry of Economy, which is a political institution, even in gastronomy, about those shows in the food policy, about Croatian fisheries policy, about Croatian tourism policy, about Croatian tourism policy, about practically what we have, in fact, it's about politics in the narrow sense, about state policy, not to mention the policy of dress, fashion, etc. After all, to avoid a jump and a score that was already here and said that politics is art possible, that is, at the level of the file, but what is a policy is defined in the following way. That politics is every conscious effort, each therefore aware of the effort to influence some of the aspects of human life, which is politics, is politics, a conscious effort to influence some of the aspects of human life, and many of them are, of course, assuming that this activity is aimed at general good and for general good. That's why, when it comes to television, I don't experience it like we do in HNS, we don't see it as a negative omen activity. The strangest thing for me is to say, in the discussion either in the press or in the daily conversation, for example, when it comes to a strike trying to indignate the strike is politicized or in the event, and we have witnessed these days of different gatherings, it does not want to be politicized. Well, for God, public gathering or strike itself is exclusively a political act, a political act, because it wants to influence one of the aspects of human life. So today we're actually talking about some parts and aspects of the general public information policy. Understandably, as far as this is concerned, all the political options in our society, including those represented in this House, seek to gain the greatest impact on the strongest media institution, on the strongest media institution in the country. They do this in different ways, such as the usual conditioning, if they are in power means by trying to influence the choice of personnel in different advices or in different places, someone like in politics does as usual by subjugating someone to attacks, aggression, or it is possible to recognize, honours, etc., but all of this is in an attempt to influence the achievement of influence on the strongest media institution. As for the various data presented in these reports that we have here and even partially and here presented in the reports of the board, it is never really just the data that is being presented, the figures that are listed, minutes, minutes or so. the approach to different policy options is always contained in the interpretation of these data, in the way and interpretation of these data, even in the interpretation of these facts, the interpretation that always, and we are witnesses of this and here contains valuable data, contains political courts, it is absolutely possible to draw an ideological position and understandably parallel to that and political interests. In addition, it is from interpretations of different sacred letters which are untouchable and are also different interpretations of attitudes, and historical events that are interpreted differently, in the study of existing ones, the search for some new values until our day is whether. This is also the case with interpretations of data on Croatian television, and what we think is important is that, and when it comes to Croatian TV and Croatian Radio programmes, we must accept as an important element of pluralism of political attitudes and pluralism of political interests in our society. It is interesting that the government's opinion of these reports points to only three objections, according to three objections. First, one minor question of the participation of a member of the programme council in competition television shows, the second opinion of the government points to the length of the promotional messages and the third to the debt to the state budget. Three remarks, which the HNS club also supports, as it fully agrees with the opinion and approach that we received on paper by the Government, and as the only programme council obligations remain Croatian television and radio, of course as the national institutions of production of the programme with a clear national and public character because this task does not have competitive commercial television. In particular, in the HNS, we are pleased that the Council has asked for special attention to be given to the development of a documentary home programme and that it has highlighted the need for a permanent education of journalists and has requested that professionalism be their basic element. In the HNS club, we also support the Council's proposal to plan a special programme of daily summary on the work of the Croatian Assembly for 30 minutes, and it would be good, it is my personal opinion that direct transfer from the Assembly be abolished, but this is my personal opinion that I fit into this position of the HNS club because we also seem to have a lot of announcements in this assembly due to the transfer of myself, not what I would like to say. The HNS Club particularly supports the praises expressed in the reports on the account of the Croatian Radio, i.e. the Croatian Radio Programme. Finally, we would like to point out that the Law on Croatian RadioTelevision, Article 7 says that Croatian Radio and HTV must not be in their programmes, and that does not mean in individual statements, nor does it refer to individual steps to represent the views or interests of a particular political party. All our political parties are interested, trying to achieve in different ways to obtain in the means of public information, so understandably and television exclusive in representing the position or interest of their party, but this is also said in HRT Law that in their programmes Croatian Radio-Television must not represent the views or interests of a particular political party as well as any other individual political, religious, secular and similar views and interests. In fact, and this is the attitude of HNS television and radio should encourage pluralism, we underline that 300 times pluralism of political, religious, pluralism of worldly, pluralism of all ideas, and we stand for it. We think that Croatian television and especially worked that is based on all the observations that can be made to them, that they have basically fulfilled their tasks and the HNS Club will in principle support the report and the programme council and the Annual Report of the Croatian HRT for 2000, with the obligation to continue to insist on the pluralism of political, religious, secular and other ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52319	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Mastruko said "The MPs on the HRT Report here in the Assembly speak only as politicians and representatives of political parties and not as viewers" which is absolutely incorrect because I claim we at the HSP Club say exactly what most viewers tell us representatives and Mr. Mastruko is the first speaker on behalf of the HNS Club here and other clubs have not yet shown themselves. How, then, can he know what and how the other MPs will talk about the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52321	Second correction by the respected representative Jagoda Majska-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52322	Thank you very much. Well, look, it's an incorrect assumption that most of us from this room speak in the name of their party and not as an audience. First of all, Mr. Mastruco, where did you get the right to judge me from which positions I speak? Secondly, whether the notion of an audience necessarily excludes the concept of a member of a profession, so it is also a policy if, of course, it is not mystified as you did. Do you think a doctor or a chimney see television as a profession or as an audience?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52323	You can't ask questions rhetorically, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52324	Okay, then I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52325	Correction is an incorrect quote and please hold on to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52326	So it's incorrect that from this hall everyone or the vast majority speak for their party and not as an audience. I saw "Latinica" last night as an audience, as the vast majority of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52327	Third correction by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52328	I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my fellow MPs that it is understandable that HRT advocates are discussing exclusively from the point of view of their political options. Unfortunately, it is true that they act this way but it is not true that it is understandable because when it becomes understandable, it means that it will lead us to do away with all independence and freedom, to politicise public media, and to do away with freedom from political power, and this is a blow to the foundations of democracy, as is the dictation of freedom of speech in the Parliament that we have just witnessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52329	Ms Antunovic, as provided for in Article 51(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, when submitting a report or a proposal to the Assembly, be determined by the working body to explain the position or proposal of the working body on its own initiative or at the request of the Assembly. Therefore, those who chair the Assembly shall only be obliged to allow the rapporteur or president of the working body to explain the position or proposal of the working body, without the addition of their own. For its own additions, there is an paragraph 1 that states that if a working body reports on the position of a minority of its members when they remain a member of a working body, it shall request that his opinion be specifically set out. And it's a duty to do things like that by the rules of procedure and by the way. Your correction of the incorrect claim in which you abused the Rules of Procedure and accused me of denying freedom of speech is unfounded, unfounded, anti-businessal and constitutes a disciplinary offense, and I therefore give you a warning. The next correction, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52330	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect quote of another. He was the first to correct his colleague, Mr. Mastruk, when he spoke about political reporting and then put Croatian TV and Croatian radio into the same basket. There is an important difference about reporting because Croatian radio as well as HINA report professionally, professionally and without forming a public opinion. Therefore, not all can be said that all reporting is political reporting. We stick to the introduction to journalism and we must say that Croatian television also has information parts unlike "Latinica" which is scandalous where it also adheres to the principle of professional, professional reporting without forming a public opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52331	And the Sixth Amendment, the Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52332	I'm embarrassed to have to pollute with Mr. Mastruk, but I have to correct his incorrect quote, quote, so it would be good to put an end to direct transmissions. On the contrary, Your Honor, Mr. Mastruco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52333	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. You can't correct the proposal. Thank you very much. You can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Learn to distinguish between what is an incorrect quote, what is a replica and what is an opinion and a proposal by a representative. Thank you very much. The club of representatives of DC, HSLS, LS respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52334	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of Croatian television! Everything I say I will try to speak in terms of achieving the public function of Croatian Radio-Television based on this report that we are conducting. These reports are such fine packages, which give all the things that those who wrote were to give. It is our duty to try and unpack these reports, to see if all of this is packed up and to give some of our critical consideration to everything that needs to be said. I understand the director of Croatian Radio-Television which is one drive of 3.5 thousand people should be managed and all material resources should be created to produce the whole programme and I won't have much to do with it. I'll put more emphasis on achieving this public function. So far, so far, there have been reports that about independence, about freedom of the media, etc. I think we can all agree that there is no independence or freedom of Croatian radio-television as a public media unless there is professionalism. If he's that smutty free, there's any intervention on the side. I will try to make some of my remarks, go from simpler to more complex given this, on these reports given the achievement of the function, public functions of Croatian Radio-Television. First of all, I'd like to say a few words about myself, about a problem that we don't really have here is a question of the balance of the program in Croatian and in other languages. If you look at the whole program a little bit, you will see that the software content is buried in most English. We've had Spanish lately. Another problem is the production of domestic content. Articles 10 and 11 on Croatian Radio and Television are clear and explicitly stated what ratio should be, and Article 5 is imposed, I will now read it means "Croatian Radio and Croatian Television in their programmes must satisfy public interests at national and local level and take care of the proper representation of informative, cultural, educational and entertainment content." It is written in a valid formulation, in one that has not been respected, which was deleted a few years ago only one word has been changed. It was inserted "responsible", and it was "equal". I think in this one word we should look for part of these gaps that we have in software content. That, in fact, because of that word, the commercial content was suddenly inundated, who determines these commercial content? The ones who lead. So I'm a program, just television. So his team opens up space to actually do one substitution of content. Furthermore, we have objections to the representation of culture. Culture is down to "Half Hours of Culture" and some little cultural news. Also, the scientific program, for example, is now being moved on by the programming scheme and further into the most unsightly term. She left Friday at 6:30 and after a few transfers, now she's on Wednesdays at 4:00. It's to be expected if these kind of pre-tumbations are to end, say, on Sundays at 4:00 in the morning. That is, such is the state of culture and education that we did not find in this report when it comes to science. And she's about the same, same representation. "On the edge of science" is a show with a cult status among young people. She's going deeper into the night. Seems to me that way last night was pretty deep into the night. It was the intensity of those who started this show so that young people would actually find themselves, around that show, that this show would become a magnet that would leave young people next to television, not to go to cafes and streets, but I'm afraid that's not how this intensity would happen. A far bigger problem with a documentary programme that was once our most award-winning and most visible part of the Croatian TV programme. Mostly today we look at foreign documentaries and the ratio is about 9:1. So it's for the benefit of a foreign documentary. Croatian audience has had the opportunity, a rare opportunity to get to know each other in the last few years, personally allow little and cartoons, every monkey and giraffe in Africa through imported American and British documents. But we couldn't see one like a bear or one of our animals. It is interesting that Croatia as a country is rich in biodiversity and we have a lot of this, thank God, we have something to raise ourselves to. However, we do not have this, we do not have these biodiversity in Croatian Radio-Television programmes. Kids know about tapers, cacadues, llamas, iguanas and other beings, but let's say for spoons or medlars, they're wondering what it is. I don't know, Mr. President. [[Is there no bear on HRT?]] Furthermore, we also have problems with this documentary program and a man asks himself why, say, the Italians, the Germans, the French and the others, why are they interested in filming our area's documentary, and we're not really? And so on. For their part, the Italians discussed in Parliament a series of Croatian radio television shows about Mark Paul, but when was that debate, we no longer have Mark Paul, or do we not know what the fate of this show is? What do we have on our Croatian television today if we don't already have what I was talking about? We have, we have a lot of fun, and that's a party that's on the side, that's licensed. She needs to be paid. The quiz is that as it used to be, however, we have some quasi quizs. It's, as you know, we have Millionaires, we have the weakest link, and it's actually all one competition where we actually get a kind of media ruse that we actually raise people in some unrealities. We have a big TV or a big TV star on Croatian TV called Djelo Hadjiselimovic. Everyone has often heard the choice of Djelo Hadjiselimovic. And his name is actually often mentioned, more is mentioned than any politician, athlete and any other star. He became so famous that this year's Pula and Motovun sold T-shirts with the inscription "chosen by Djelo Hadjiselimovic". In fact, when we see all of this, you ask yourself, who is the director of sales, sales on Croatian radio and television? We don't really know who's selling and what he's selling? And who brings money to Croatian radio and television? We know that Delo spends well. Another problem that I've seen from the analysis of these reports is that they're related to the production of appropriate these emissions. There's a couple on TV who's running two shows. There's one program called "Contra Plan." According to that information I received from Croatian Radio-Television, 85,000 fees are paid per month for the show. And for the second show run by the second part of a married couple called Pyramid, there's about 100 to 105 thousand a month. The "contra plan" is conducted under cover of mosaic, mosaic emissions, however, it is actually a purely information-political emissions. And it seems to me that external production, meaning external co-workers can't make, make an information-political program, that those inside television should do it, and that external production is questionable when it's known that all these shows are actually made within television with its technique, studies, a news car and everything that's actually television. And now I could lie about it here, I wouldn't want to bother any more. In short, I'd recapitulate what's on what, what's actually one problem with our television? So given the reality of the public function of television that we have a lot of foreign programs that actually predominates. Yes, domestic production has been completely neglected. That the external production is large and we don't know if this production is done without competitions or what are the criteria for choosing this external production? And when it comes to science, education, culture and documentaries, we said that this programme was completely abandoned. It's not just my grades. You have grades that have recently given appropriate institutions that monitor. I'm going to read a few things in the report that are part of a series of international TV reports in Europe. Law, public policy and independence, on the state of television independence and the development of public policies in 20 European countries, with particular emphasis on the role of public television. It is said here in one conclusion: when the government's tasks and regulatory bodies are very important for ensuring editorial diversity in information programmes and for the cultural diversity of audio-visual production, in general including local creativity. This should be paid immediate attention because otherwise the consequences could be serious. The tendency to lower the quality of the program is evident. In the context of the growing global media concentration, the protection of editorial diversity is becoming a global issue. Further compliance with European Union standards and full implementation of laws and procedures will also be necessary to maintain and improve the expected standards of media independence and freedom. I'm going to skip to part of the text so I'm going to read another conclusion, when HRT's public broadcasting will also feel the pressure of competition, and its response will be crucial to the future appearance of audio-visual space. The current response has been visible since 2003 in response to the challenge Nov@TV because the increasing commercialisation of the programme for mass audiences and the decline of quality. HRT is increasingly broadcasting quizs towards foreign licences, who wants to be a millionaire, the weakest link, and is increasingly investing in educational, documentary and film programs. The house is also trying to respond to the competition of commercial television by increasing the audience, and in this case, if it succeeds, it will reduce the achievement of its obligations and public services. It is therefore very important that HRT finds a smarter defence, one which will include its obligation and public services in the field of information, cultural, educational and entertainment programmes. There's a lot in this report. I won't read any more. If you're interested, I can give it to you. I assume you have this material, I think 229 pages where a comparative display of all these TVs is given in transition countries. As a club, what do we get to support or not support a report like this? It is important that we once go to one true and public television and that the responsibility is increased by a public word, for the production of a television programme. What I said at the beginning, freedom of the media, independence of television no longer depends on politicians, depending on professional journalists, answers from people who are engaged in this kind of responsible activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52335	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52336	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Piplovic's incorrect allegations that Mr. Djelo Hadjiselimovic is in the business of commercialism. Mr. Djelo Hadjiselimovic is correct that he is the editor of the entertainment program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52337	SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52338	Mr. President, Mr. Director, Mr. Left-handed, colleagues and colleagues. Coming here and getting ready for this debate, I thought I would actually need to speak in favour of the defence of this House from the way a public picture of its relevance and importance in Croatian social and political life is created in some sense. But at first, or almost at first, I realized it was too soon to talk about it. We still need to defend the media, independent institutions from this Parliament, and first at the level of decency.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52339	Mr. Pupovac, your claim to defend the media from the Croatian Parliament is incorrect, false and I will give you a warning. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52340	Mr. President, I can, of course, keep my remaining 13 minutes quiet...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52341	The Croatian Parliament cannot be offended that it threatens the freedom of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52342	Mr. President and I am a member of this House and I can speak of it as...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52343	And it is, and I am the president of this House, and I am obliged to protect the integrity of this House against such accusations that the Croatian Parliament is jeopardizing the freedom of the media. That's not true. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52344	Mr. President, I can use the remaining 12 minutes of course to keep my mouth shut about this subject, and you can reach out for more warnings in that regard. You can warn me and talk, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52345	You cannot accuse the Croatian Parliament of jeopardizing the freedom of the media and of defending the media from the Croatian Parliament. It is not the Croatian Parliament that attacks the freedom of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52346	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you speak as chairman, and I speak as a member of this House on behalf of one of the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52347	I am obliged to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament cannot be publicly accused by the representatives of this Parliament of attacking and jeopardising the freedom of the media. It is not the Croatian Parliament that attacks the freedom of the media, which you have chosen to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52348	It may be Mr. President that you've waited for my second sentence you might see that I've been saying it in the same way as yours, which is to protect what you call the integrity of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52350	But for some reason today you reach for warnings even though you've had a chance to do so long before. But since this isn't a debate between you and me, then let me get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52351	On that, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52352	So we here in the Croatian Parliament should create assumptions, and therefore I mentioned the Croatian Parliament, so ourselves and all the other dear colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the closeness of political views, and regardless of the words that we once and for all refer to each other, I thought that we are talking about and that we can show to what extent we are able to develop what is called the standard of public speaking culture, and this is such a public place, about things that are of general and public interest. And, when I decided to say that we failed to keep that minimum standard and that we were unable to maintain that minimum standard, then I was invited by a type of debate that could be heard about the Croatian Radio Television report here, which unfortunately does not allow this Parliament to have a serious, mature, democratic debate about what Croatian Radio Television today is and what it could or should be tomorrow. Each of us certainly has a number of reasons to be in our debate both intensely and critical and to try to say something of what I think is either valuable or programically this TV might look better. I'd like to, for example. liked that Croatian TV programme has no elements of reality shows, as it has in some of its segments. Every evening's political shows can indeed be viewed in a series of elements as some kind of reality show. and that is why we lack serious, well-prepared, pre-meditated for a few days designing both in terms of the programme and with regard to candidates for discussion and participants in the debate of the prepared emissions. Unfortunately, we don't have that. And to our public, our political culture, our television is certainly needed, as we do here in the Parliament. Instead, we have some kind of copy, some kind of similarity to the pseudo public opinion on a daily basis, on a daily basis, and some kind of, unfortunately, reality show. Don't take it for granted and strictly what I'm saying, I'm not saying it from a position that I'd like to influence the programming scheme in any way, but I'm talking as someone who thinks that certain topics and certain problems in our society deserve much more preparation and much more serious and serious in preparing such public discussions, which then enables people who prepare and conduct shows to be much more serious in the whole approach. But it's not a thing that we can directly influence and fortunately it's not a thing that we can directly influence and what some of us have said here, I'm speaking as someone who shares perception or public insight into what our television today looks like, and not someone who would want from the position of this pay phone or on behalf of the club or in the name of certain groups of clubs affect what our television should look like. I think Mr. Mastruko said well and Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament was my initial idea when I used the words I used. Yeah, pluralism. We need to preserve pluralism and then when the elements of this pluralism don't like us, when we disagree with them and when we think that some other pluralist element of our political life is more represented, somewhere louder represented, but I think we've come to that point that we really need to keep it on base. I wish it were different, too. I wish it were different that we could discuss to what extent one type of professional approach to the political sphere, political institutions and by Croatian TV and Croatian Radio does not actually contribute to strengthening the institution of parliamentaryism. It does not contribute to strengthening the institution of a parliamentary representative but with a kind of estradisation, but with a kind of criticism that is at the level of estradisation actually prevents the possibility that here, both in this place and in other places where parliamentary representatives can, by their obligations, act in fact, make it impossible. But colleagues and colleagues, I think we're to blame for that. We are so guilty that we did not allow more autonomy to the editors and editors during some legal solutions. We are so guilty that we still allow to a good extent, I would not like to say that this is about Croatian television, but we allow the total media space to be media-rectified. This or that possibility of accessing some media and some media space. In other words, I think it is up to us to fight for our greater independence and our greater professionalism than we have at this point in public space in Croatia, this is certainly what this people in Croatia expect of us. Last night there was a lot of talk on one of the TV shows where there were indeed words that were not suitable and access to a subject that showed that it was an unbecoming approach. But one thing hit me specifically. Mentioning 200 families, common phrases and stereotypes in the last 15 years from the Croatian political jargon, 150 sacred cows were mentioned. Of course, it is something that we cannot charge Croatian television with, of course, that we cannot blame the audience who is reasoning in this way, but of course we should imagine to what extent we as people are privileged in a number of things, in fact able to fight for the integrity of our position, for the integrity of our work and for the integrity of our profession and how much we were really able to resist this kind of media presentation, the media performance in which it says that one parliamentary representative has 12, 13 or 14 thousand kunas and that individual leaders are being scandalized, and will not say that they themselves have as much, and that they still have no idea what else, and that the President of the Croatian Parliament who reminds me, of course, the affairs of their powers, Mr. President, yes, has a whole series of privileges, but in comparison with the privileges that some other directors and directors of public companies, of course, the managers of the state, or similar, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, that is something that we can's something that we can's something that we can't, that we can't be accused of which we can't we can't be blameds to which we can't blames to which we can't blames to which we can't be accused of the fact that we't, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of which we't, of which we't, we't, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, we' of which we' of which we't, we' of the fact, we' of course, of course, of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course, we' of course But ladies and gentlemen, it's our fault. It's our fault that we don't talk about the right places of what's being corruption, what is lawlessness and what is a violation of the elemental values and standards of this society. And that's why I think we need to work first of all on ourselves so that we can get to that point so that we can rightly warn that the image that's being created about us is not always in good faith or with actual facts. You know, the easiest thing to do is to protect those 200 or 300 or these thousands and hundreds of thousands in the gray zone, which for one seal in the city administration of Zagreb or in the government office receive special fees and special credits, it is the easiest thing to do with those who pass laws. It is, it should be. But let's not waste our anger on these people here and not in a way that we seek more, more the presence of our party or our character or our word on Croatian television, vice versa and on another occasion. I thought I'd talk about another topic, but not only because of the shortness of time but also because of the fact that this is a more important problem of representing minorities, interethnic dimensions and the like, at this point I'm going to leave aside and somewhere else, because what I was saying was more important for the general interest and the general values of what Croatian television should bring to our media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52353	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52354	A fellow Pupovac speaking of last night's show and quoting from there about 150 cows, sacred cows, alluding to this Parliament and saying that the salaries are 12, 13 and 14 thousand kuna. In the most visible day-to-day information show editor of the show, without any shame and shame before 16, he said that the average salary in the Croatian Parliament is 16 thousand kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, not counting on the President of the Parliament, the vice president of the Parliament and the presidents of the working bodies, who in this House has 16 thousand kunas to pay? Who? And that editor's got more than that, and at least he's got a hundred grand a year in the merchandise. There's a hot meal, we don't have one. There are 0.5% every year per year of work, etc., etc. This is our Croatian Radio Television. Thank you very much, but I'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52355	Honorable representative Damir Cain. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52356	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of HRT, the distinguished gentlemen of the MPs. Yeah, and I'd have said a little differently if we hadn't opened the debate with Latina this morning. Secondly, as a club, we will support this report, but we will also be extremely open, so if anyone wants to be critical of Croatian broadcasting. All of us follow these events on and around Croatian Radio Television, we all know the opportunity Mr. Loncar is talking about in Croatian Radio Television. And why are we following all this? Well, because it's up to our destiny, too, but if someone's interested in independent, impartial, objective television, then it's IDS. It is clear that television is not infallible and it would not be good, respected gentlemen of the MPs, if this report were now to be seen as "an empire reciprocating Croatia's broadcasting" under quotes. I agree, MPs are not sacred cows, nor are editors on Croatian radio television. And they're politicians a couple of excellents. Representatives are not financially threatened, but even less threatened are editors on Croatian radio television. On the financial rights of the editor, the public also has the right to know everything as well as about the MPs, but we do not have the right to touch their editorial rights. No one, I said, is sinless and neither is Croatian broadcasting, but if we touch freedom of expression on that television, then we will delegate ourselves. I have the impression that everything is going in the direction of mistrust on HRT, but I'm afraid it won't be, gentlemen, a contribution to democracy, rather the opposite. A statement of one freedom, and then the next day the government will face up to problems as to how to explain some of the events. So it's important that HRT is available to everyone, to be free, to be independent. So it won't be or it won't become a toy of any political party or party. It is clear that even in HRT itself, and we are called HRT people, there are conflicting opinions. I'm going to read an councilman named Antu Zuzul who literally said, interesting. He says he was against that report and went on HTV saying, I'm talking about this report that's on the agenda. Saying that his programme is shaped according to the will of individuals, that television has become a market for political groups and interests, that every job on HTV has become a profit center and that he sees Prisavia TV as one of the political parties, almost a quote. But it's my same opinion that there's a battle coming up for HRT. The last time we discussed Croatian broadcasting for this speaker, I will read part of my speech. So about the Council, where I said, is, quote myself, come on. "It is that the former government in the last session of the Croatian Parliament has chosen a new council of HRT by naming the majority of its ranks in such a way that the majority that is now minority today held the former power on HRT, but that the higher Europe, democracy, media freedoms, the current power headed by Mr Sanader, should not change." And she didn't go. Indeed, despite the fact that the Croatian Radio Television Council held the opposition until 15 or 20 days ago, the majority did not change. So, by the end of the term. I believe that this should also be the case with the director whose term of office expires in two years. Let's not mean, gentlemen MPs, tore down and try to build. The two-year term of office of the members of the Council elected by the former government has expired, and what clearly follows? There has been a change and no one in this country has created problems in either the Parliament or political life. So, keeping in mind that every government depends on the media. First of all, Croatian broadcasting I know that now, probably as we set off, the current government will not drop out of the hands of the opportunity provided as, let's be fair, even the former government was not without error. And there were some people who were very close to some political people from the gentleman, parties from Mr Ljuština, etc., who had seats in the Council of Croatian Radio Television, etc. Clearly and this should be said that there is no more ungrateful topic than the debate on HRT. HRT is the most powerful institution in Croatia. There's no more power. Anyone who falls into her unkindness simply doesn't have it. However, as fear must not prevail in this House of Croatian Broadcasting, neither must Croatian broadcasting be ruled by fear of this House or by politics. The truth is, they know it very well. They are incomparably more powerful than this House and this is more powerful than our House and justice, and capital, and other media. But it should still be acknowledged that Parliament is the central place of Croatian democracy. And that's why the IDS is clearly talking about this point as well. Even in IDS, we don't care that more than two hundred people on HRT have incomparably higher incomes than ministers. And that's the data from the house itself. We don't care what the value measure in Croatia's Croatian daily HRT is. We are not interested in the fact that the gentlemen are praised that they are the best, which is true, as is true that they are in a privileged position because they have about 600 million kunas from the subscription, they are freed from VAT and in such a business environment it is not difficult to be the best with only a degree of competition, but I am interested in the fact that HRT remains the most visible and objective medium in Croatia. Of course, nothing happened by accident. And let's not paint, we all know that. Neither did Mr. Galic by chance become director of Croatian Radio Television. We all remember that scene when Mr. Pavic, the most powerful publisher, as editor-in-chief of Globus, entered the government building across the street from this House, and then came out as the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television. But we have three things to confess to Mr. Galic. That, above all, he financially stabilized HRT, that from the party television as it was until 2000, where some editors like Lončar showed the court of reason, he opened television to others. And thirdly, I didn't add what I thought, and thirdly, I created the basics that television can...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52357	It's a good thing you didn't add it 'cause they'd break up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52358	... to develop even though the monopoly, benefits enjoyed by Croatian radio television are such that for decades in Croatia, no one can simply be a competition because the advantage of the subscription and release from this VAT is simply such that it is simply an unattainable advantage. I am pleased to discuss this report especially after last week's grip on the Parliament. First, to point out once again, that when it comes to parliamentaryism in Croatia, and it is only 15 years in the beginning, Croatia can only be raised by a multi-party for 15 years. Television, meaning, transferring the Croatian Parliament is actually building democracy in Croatia. Between this body, I am now talking about the Parliament, and the Croatian people should not be intercessors in the image or in the work of any spokeswoman of the Government, the Parliament or commentator of Croatian broadcasting. And that's why we have to fight for the direct transmissions of this House. So there should be direct communication, and that's a direct session transfer, so it cost what it costs, it costs less than freedom. The measure of value is not commentary, it's a living word of counsel, and why am I saying that? Because I care about the credibility of this House, and I claim that this House is still the purest body of public life in the Republic of Croatia, not because editors in Croatian-radiotelevision have a much higher salary than ministers, but because Parliament was and will remain a real representative of the Croatian people or rather of all Croatian citizens, to be more precise and to fight for it for 10 years in this House and I will represent this idea as long as I am in this Parliament. I've always been directly chosen, and that's why I can speak freely, not if I can, but I have to. So we all know who is appointed, we know why, but this report should be accepted because the opportunities in Croatia-radiotelevision are consolidated, the financial situation is much better than by the end of '99. and freedoms are in general today and thanks to Croatia-radiotelevision in this country are incomparably greater than they were in '99. And that's why we're voting for it. I won't speak in these works I don't know etc., but I will say once again, gentlemen are not normal the hysteria that was created last week against the Parliament, among other things raised by Croatian-radiotelevision. If the Parliament loses its place, who can take it? I may not know him by executive authority or some quasi authority. For 10 years we have fought against the semi-presidential system, I said 200 people on Croatian-Television have higher incomes than the minister, some over 70, 80,000 kuna. If one of the MPs, as someone mentioned, did not God give a gift a suit that would be a conflict of interest. It's normal on HRT, and it's gotta be that way, I guess. If one of the MPs got a diary it would be a conflict of interest, on Croatian-radiotelevision it's normal, there's no one here like someone said either a pay phone or an official card. Let's let the President of the Parliament, if the representative has a paid room, it's a conflict of interest, and when someone from Croatia-radiotelevision goes to such a room, then it's normal, if an agent comes to work from one Varazdin, 85 kilometers away and so much there, and in 22 working days makes 3 thousand 500 kilometers of interest, and let's ask the gentlemen how many cars they have on Croatian-radiotelevision. Every MP in 4 years throws one car, but this is not the case with the gentlemen of Croatia-radiotelevision, and there we simply need to protect the integrity of this House. It's easy to tickle, I'll tell the people, and why does that seem? So it looks like power is moving to some other structure, whether it's in the media, whether it's in capital or not, where it's supposed to be said. Why is that spoken in this House? Because everyone knows this Parliament doesn't have the power. No one in this country is threatened by the Parliament, you won't hear about the Government or, you won't hear about the President's office or, you won't hear about the capital or because they have to raise 500 million kuna for their emissions, etc. At last, the director can't even tell me from the Croatian Radiotelevision we'll decide when we'll fight back. Our citizens, I agree, have the right to be frustrated, citizens have the right to be frustrated with Parliament and politicians. I said politicians aren't sacred cows so they shouldn't talk about MPs. Citizens live hard, but I also claim that 50% of the MPs of this House share fate with their citizens and I repeat these 200 people on HRT receive more income than non-representatives, but ministers, and I suggest that we just talk about it. How many gentlemen are shipping to Croatia-radiotelevision? I personally don't know, but yesterday I read on HT an average severance of 340 thousand kuna for 600 workers, on Croatian railways 150 to 200 thousand kuna, in HEP 117 thousand kuna, in the Ministry of Defence at least 50 to 100 thousand kuna, in the ADRIS group 335 thousand kuna, etc., there is no kuna here. At the end of the election year, let's wake up and take care of how to approach all political parties, so that the diary doesn't look like just a bulletin, whether HDZ, Mr Arapovic or SDP, you can't take up a man I don't know about the proportional representation of political options, but the mandates should be run by this report and I said once again certainly the opportunities are better today than they were. To run Croatian-radiotelevision and I will say it is certainly more influential than to run any ministry. Their incomes are over 400 million kuna, they have 3 thousand 600 employees, they have almost absolute power of information, they are untouchable, no one calls them out, but they need to be objective, equal to all, and for those principles I said IDS will persist, under quotes if they need to be "killed", but we will also fight to protect the dignity of Croatian-radiotelevisions, and I am telling Mr Galic to keep his journalists safe, and if he can't then let them go, but while the director must protect the dignity of every journalist, and also the gentleman who was editing "Latinica" yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52359	At 12 and 23, it's time for an individual debate on this point. Otherwise, we have a debate as for amendments to the state budget of 40 and some representatives and another 5.6 clubs. Let's get ready for tonight for a little longer work. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have a little correction of incorrect allegations, only 8. Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52360	Thank you, Mr. President. Sasma incorrectly said that not accepting the report would be a statement of indensibility this Parliament wants to impose on HRT. I believe that just considering quantified and quantitative data from this report would be the freedom to assess those who discuss it to decide whether or not to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52361	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52362	Thank you very much. So the Honorable Mr. Representative said incorrectly, and I quote, "Every authority depends on the media." That's not true, of course. The past SDP-led government has changed the Law on Croatian Radiotelevision twice and lost the elections anyway, so viewers are smart enough and politically wise enough to be able to assess what they see on Croatian television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52363	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52364	So dear and lovable in his very inspired discussion as usual was consistent in his inconsistency. He said, "Be careful, I literally wrote the following sentence, and I quote, "Whoever falls into the mercy of HRT is no more."", finished quote. My colleague, please nicely, so do you know what you said, and you see by law, in this way I will correct you, it is incorrect, according to the law of HRT defines, HRT as public television for its activities and that it corresponds to the public and must promote public interests and respect the interests of the public in its action. However, I don't know whose interests Croatian-radiotelevision promotes, the public is only a farce, but it is unfortunate that the MP says, once again I will repeat "Whoever falls into the mercy of HRT is no longer there.", finished the quote and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52365	Dear Representative Frano Piploic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52366	So esteemed colleague Cain said one inaccuracy, namely that Croatia-radiotelevision has collected 600 million from the subscription. A colleague, a little more than 824 million has collected, so it is one correction and the other you have divided the Croatian Parliament into two parts, 50% of those who share the fate of the people, and 50% of those who are not. I don't know if you counted yourself in that group that shares the fate of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52367	Honorable representative Lino Cervar rectification of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52368	Mr. President, I almost fainted. So when I heard a statement from a colleague of mine who said that Croatian Radio-Television was passing directly the assembly sessions building democracy in Croatia. Well, it's a disaster. Well, we're hostages here in the Parliament of five politicians who, like a doctor of general practice, are constantly reporting for a microphone and can't part with it. They are specialists for both fishing and agriculture, and for the economy, and for science, and for education, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52369	Who are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52370	That's what I said it wasn't anything. He said that by conveying directly television assembly sessions to build democracy in Croatia. That's not absolutely true, but, now that's my speech, by passing directly to the assembly sessions we directly influence the mind and common sense of our citizens and our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52371	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52372	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll correct the three allegations Mr. Cain said. He said the TV was financially consolidated. I'd say the financial report is not consolidated but haired. Second, after 2000, it was that they were greater freedoms. I don't agree with that, because if the freedoms were greater then then the government would honor 400 thousand signatures related to the referendum. And third, that TV has finally become a non-political completely incorrect TV is a SDP bulletin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52373	Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, seventh Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52374	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to correct Mr. Honorable colleague Cain's misstatement when he said next year was an election. 2007 is electoral because of the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52375	And respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52376	Mr. President, here's what I've learned from my mouth from the esteemed representative of Arabovic, but it's so untrue that I have to repeat it. The Honorable representative said, Maltene invites us to abstention because it's an election year. That's not true. We don't know where. What a dream, sir. It's a big problem, but for him. But more importantly, what is true, and what is true, Croatian Radio-Television The Law on Electronic Media of the Sea, news must be true, correct, present facts and events, must be impartial and professional, correct and must encourage free-thinking. We've been witnessing since last night, not just since last night that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52377	One thing's for sure, next year's New Year's Eve. And the election will be when the time comes by law. HDZ representative club, respected representative Petar Selem and Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52378	Mr. President, distinguished guests! After last night's show, I almost gave up discussing the position of culture and some similar activities on Croatian radio television in terms of the report that was submitted to us because I say the nausea that filled me with this show led me for a moment to think that all other topics were deplaced. But I don't think so now. I don't think it would be good if the feeling that we're all still carrying from that show last night made us shut up and some things had to be said. The first thing I find very surprising is that the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council did not notice one big difference in the radio report and the TV report. The radio report is very specific. I'm just talking about the area of culture. I read exactly how many serious music shows were recorded, how many minutes were recorded, how many new radio dramas were produced. I didn't read anything like it in the TV report. The generality itself. And in that sense, I understand Mr. President of the Council and that "need, need, need." That's where we totally agree. However, in that diversity I must say one thing. It is obvious that the radio has fully or to a large extent fulfilled its cultural task as a public medium and its commitment to Croatian culture. Unfortunately for television, you couldn't tell. I'll explain why very briefly here. First, the question of the documentary program. I haven't been able to read exactly how much these shows have been recorded lately, but according to the data I have, which don't have to be absolutely accurate but I think they're mostly accurate the last few months has been recorded I hear three, four shows a month. You used to shoot 20 shows a month. But I move on to what culture is in the narrow sense of the word. I also talked to my colleagues from various parties, and we came to the conclusion that everything I said last year, not to repeat all those numbers that I said last year, that nothing important in that sense had changed. Namely, I must continue to acknowledge Croatia's radio-television or television to participate in Croatian film production. It's one precious thing and it's absolutely unspeakable. Without the contribution of Croatian Radio-Television, our film production would probably be smaller if nothing else. But there are other things. For example, Croatian television has practically given up filming original Croatian TV dramas, especially TV dramas that would valorize and value Croatian literary heritage. It's gone at all. Also, there is no such thing as what Mr. President of the Council said or almost no shows, a portrait of the greats of Croatian cultural and artistic history. That's not there either. As far as the theatre is concerned, it completely gave up the once valuable practice of recording quality theatre performances. This creates a foundation for the history of the Croatian theatre, to which Croatian radio television as a public media has contributed. Unfortunately, there is no more today. It's a question of serious music. There's a question I thought I'd say the almost state is catastrophic. Serious music what little term remains is pushed into some late nights. So I'm going to read you a subtitle from "The Morning List"... a letter that says, "Croatian television with a serious music program and even the one it produces in its own production treats as waste being solved at the deaf hour of the night." End of quote, author Branimir Popuk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I say I think the public is already sufficiently sensitive to the fact that Croatian television is not fulfilling its mission in terms of Croatian music, theatre and other cultures. Also, there are practically no more shows about our great art artists, only Edo Murtic, one show was recorded. Edo Murtic was my friend, but Edo Murtic was not the very art of Croatian art. In the end, I would only say two things if I didn't take too much time off from my esteemed colleague, Andrija Hebrang. It's a question of visual identity. In this report we see absolutely no position regarding the visual identity of Croatian Radio-Television. I have one question to ask. In 2000, a manual of graphic standards was completed, which worked by a very competent team, designer Ljubicic, one of the supervisory councils attended by Fedja Vukić, Igor Zidić and Darko Glavan, so three top art experts. I was like the art director of the house at the time. This manual of graphic standards which is European, which was at the highest level practically I think went into the trash. And I'd like to maybe if you can do better today, I'm not getting into it at all, but I think the council should say a word about it too. And finally, the question of language. That's what the council in the report is talking about. He's talking about how many of these experts there are, how many of them are there? It is said that it cannot be clearly affected by what language is spoken by a guest who is invited to TV. However, I might be able to do some things myself, and I would say rightly directed. I'd only ask one question. why Croatia, there I will not agree with my colleague Mastruk, but please, why Croatian radiotelevision persistently rejects the word "port" which is deeply rooted in Croatian sports tradition. All Croatian clubs, from those long ago to those that came after II. The World War and which bear the words "port" in their title have that word "port", Hash, GOŠK, POŠ, etc. I am therefore interested in why the word "port" which is deeply rooted in Croatian sports tradition is cast out for the will of another word that I say belongs to Croatian sports tradition. It's just some hints of ladies and gentlemen and dear colleagues saying that in terms of treating culture I totally agree with Mr. President, you should, you should. I'm the same for that, however, I think something should have been done. In that sense, I think this report, when it comes to culture and education and art, is not satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52379	Thank you. And in part two, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52380	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community club advocates political independent TV, which is not now. He's in favor of upholding the law, which is why we're not seeing this TV from the report. But now I'm going to talk about the financial failures of this leadership. As it is obvious that in its programming part of Croatian Radio Television, especially Television runs the programme by left hand, it is clear that it leads its financial business with two lefts. What we got in so-called. the independent report, of course, is neither independent nor the report, because if it were subject to a state audit then there would be sanctions. This way we have an incomplete report that I'm about to document. From the very so-called an independent report shows that financial operations do not respect fundamental laws. Therefore, it does not lead to procurement under the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, the sums are split to avoid the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, the revision suggests that tax obligations of 171 million were not paid but were put into reserve, which would seriously jeopardise business, as court rulings for tax collection are already coming. And finally, the difference between realised investments and registered assets is 79 million kuna. But what it is for Croatian television that takes that money out of our pockets. The analysis also shows business with bad economy policy, as the revenues from the tax have increased by 6%. So they reached deeper into our pocket. From the pensioners to the unemployed, but their own incomes fell, from the marketing 8%, although it was illegally exceeded the amount of time marketable material they were allowed to give. And even worse information that we can see, but it's not highlighted in the revision, which is that in business they get less 20 times than last year, last year. And the saddest fact, that in revenue, it is its own production, that in revenue, its own logistics was represented by 1200% less than a year earlier. So, with its own money activities, it's getting smaller, reaching deeper into our pockets. Two thousand pies were received, which would say 20 times, and at profit last year, in 2003 compared to the report, of course no tax profits were paid. But if one ministry were to operate like this, a minister headed long ago would have been prosecuted. Why am I speaking to the Ministry? Because the Croatian broadcasting budget is higher than the budget of some ministries. It's about a sum of nearly a billion kuna. What's most tragic is that independent review doesn't show. Competition for external production, outside of HRT are without public procurement. The conflict of interest of spouses who receive emissions through private companies has already been mentioned. However, there is no mention of what is most important to me. Everything else is a children's game, which is that the report carried out a business evasion in 2004 because the biggest liabilities that have not been paid or recorded have been skipped. I remind you, on the basis of Article 54. The Croatian Radio Television Act 3% of the proceeds in the name of the fee HRt was obliged to pay into the account of the Pluralism Fund and the diversity of the media. The Fund was founded by law in September of the previous year. So if she didn't pay him that year, she had to put it in stock. She didn't, and it's a $24 million sum of six hundred and twelve thousand. So, we can say that there is an unpaid, unproven and insecure obligation of 24 million kuna. The second same obligation, unpronounced and drowned, according to the Law on Electronic Media, which was adopted in July of the previous year, so in 2003, in Article 58, determines that Croatia's broadcasting, as well as others, has to pay 0.5% of its gross income to the Council for Electronic Media. It did not, nor did the report show that it put those funds in reserve, nor did that amount in expenditures and liabilities at all. So, there's an unpaid, unproven and secreted obligation that in this case 6 million 632 thousand kuna. And third, according to the Law on HRT, Article 12 in the minute of its commercials Croatian television must not pass 9 minutes per hour. According to a confession here, the present principal general has violated the law. He says, though, we broke the law on purpose. I went through the red light on purpose, I'm sorry. And at the expense of such over-minute commercials, the unrealized revenue of 10 million kunas has been denied. In fact, he's unfulfilled because he's against the law, and they've included him in their income. When we add these 3 digits, then it turns out that it's hidden in 41 million kuna statements, and it's illegally acquired 10 million kunas. And when we put these 51 million kunas in the income and expenditure table, it turns out that Croatian television was doing negative business for more than 40 million kunas. Not counting outstanding tax obligations for which she has already lost her disputes, but still does not pay them, although the appeal does not delay the execution at the verdict. What the report didn't show are employees' salaries. What it has not shown is that external production is done with its own material and with its own workforce which is therefore exploited and double-earned, so I propose, for this reason, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, that the same conclusion be reached by the parent body, even though the president of the parent body has very skillfully avoided reading the conclusion. Namely, the parent body did not, the parent board, take note of these two reports. We suggest that it repeats itself here at the vote. In other words, such reports cannot be taken into account, let alone accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on Croatian Radio Television, according to which supervision at the work of Television is carried out by resolution ministerial departments, I suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia commit itself to providing tax inspection in Croatia with radiotelevision to determine the allegations I have made here, and in the event of a positive finding which I have no doubt that it is also directed to the State's Attorney's Office. 'Cause if it was one Department of State's Attorney's Office, it'd be deep inside. So I suggest not to accept a report like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52381	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52382	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Andrija Hebrang, who said that Croatian television is taking it all out of our pockets by referring to the subscription. Not only Croatian TV but also the law firm "Hanžeković & Radakovic" they have been using for many years even though they have promised not to. They only remember it finely writes Alexa Alexic and many others, taking 124 kunas. Take that 25,000 of those are over 2 and a half million a year. And when you think it's just the cost of a reminder, it's a matter of execution, it's over 4 million spending and throwing money away. It is the shameful behaviour of Croatian television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52383	Second, correction by respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52384	I'm correcting Mr. Hebrang's incorrect quote that he said: "HRT for this as well as more hands in the pocket of everyone, especially the pensioners." Mr. Hebrang and his party in the election campaign promised to cancel the Croatian pensioner's subscription. So why are you telling HRT now that he didn't do something you didn't do? You haven't done anything and it's in your manner lately to accuse others of your inadequacy and your incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52385	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52386	Thank you very much. It's incorrect. [[Please don't be Mrs. Representatives.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52387	Once again, Mrs. Petricevic, I will give you a warning. This is a warning from the last warning. That's enough of that from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52388	It's incorrect that the HDZ Club wants... on the report in accordance with the Croatian Radio-Television Act, because it speaks exclusively politically and only almost what happened yesterday, not in the period covered by the report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These people who are here in front of us and who are responsible for the promotion of the work on television we put on the defendant's bench and I think it's almost already under that motto we've heard before, which is to locate, arrest and deliver. I just feel like these people are in this role today because I'm watching and listening to what's done in front of the HDZ Club with that particular goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52389	You first quoted a report from the Defence and National Security Council. And this is a report on the work of HRT colleague Pacek, program council. So you replaced something consciously and deliberately. And rabid and diabolical. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang gives up. Respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52390	Dear Mr. President, it is not true that Mr. Hebrang has claimed that HTV has escaped because it has not shown any payments or obligations that have not been made, because it is not simply done or thus drawn up in the good part and the State budget. So won't he tell his colleague Hebrang that the state government, that the government of the Republic of Croatia, or the majority of parliament who voted in favour of such a draft budget, is engaged in secret?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52391	Dear Representative Zdenko Antešić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52392	Thank you very much. Mr. Hebrang incorrectly stated that the chairman of the Mother's Committee had skillfully avoided reading the report. ... That's completely incorrect, and it's true that she was rudely disabled from the President of the Parliament to read her report. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52393	I have already mentioned that the rapporteur or president of the Committee is obliged to submit a report while sticking to what is said in the Committee's report. I did not unbusinessfully warn the chairman of the Committee who kept trying to talk about something else, not to read her report which was not her report, but was the Committee's report. You have now offended me again, and therefore I warn you because you have offended me by saying that I have unlawfully, rudely interrupted, taken away the word of the presidents of the Committee, that I have not made it possible for her. I will tell Mrs. Presidents of the Committee and every Mr. President of the Committee and every Mr. Representative and MP because that is what this business order of ours, our Constitution, our Rules of Procedure through his, through the mouth of this Rules of Procedure, says because this Rules of Procedure tells me to do so. And in particular, it tells me to be spared from being thrown away by Mrs. Anticevic. I don't need that. I don't need it. I don't need it. Your Honor, not in the other one. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52394	It is not true that the Chairman of the Committee of Parent Skills has avoided the report 'Cause it's [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52395	Don't help the MP, he's qualified enough that I'm... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52396	Rather, rather than being prevented by the President of the Committee from making the views of the Committee, it was forced to read the written report, although it does not say in our Rules of Procedure that the president of the parent body reads the written report but conveys the views of the Committee. Since the President of the Committee is not a member of the Committee, I doubt that he knows what was on the Committee and how it was discussed... /The MP has been excluded./....
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52397	Once again for those who need to be repeated, and for you, Mr. Stazic clearly needs to be repeated multiple times. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure reads: "When a report or a proposal is submitted to the Assembly, the working body shall report to the rapporteur who, according to the conclusion of the working body, will explain the position or proposal of the working body on his own initiative or at the request of the Assembly at the meeting." Explain the proposal of the working body. And it's an alphabet. And that's the alphabet of fellow Leko nothing more, when you get the word then you'll be able to do anything more. And it's an alphabet, and it can't be done, sir. I'm gonna run again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and You have no right to react to the Rules of Procedure on the explanations of Mr. Leko, so read it a little better. That's, uh, a little later. That's a little later. Don't play buddy Leko and provoke me with, see where he is, your tendency goes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52398	Mr. President, I didn't know you saw where my tendency was going, so I apologize for that. But Mr. President, Article 223. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges you as we do, say the President or Chairman of the Assembly, gives clarifications on the process of passing the law, and does not share moral packs with MPs, nor is the Arbitrary political. And you do it. So will I, how will I and what will I direct myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52399	I don't share, you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning. Mr. Leco, I don't share moral pucks with anyone. I'm just explaining how the Rules of Procedure is strictly applied. And I think it would be correct for you to accept the application of the Rules of Procedure, not for us to stand up for something else. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the HSP club, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52400	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would really not like to give advice on behalf of the club, but in our Rules of Procedure, it says that if the representatives are dissatisfied with your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, they may request an authentic interpretation of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, so I ask that we do not speak to the chair of the committee whether they interpret or not well, that you read to them the Rules of Procedure. They've got the Rules of Procedure to read it. If they are not satisfied with the interpretation, let them ask the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure for authentic interpretation, not that we are wasting our time here interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52401	Yes, it's just that some people need to repeat it multiple times, because it's not intended to use the Rules of Procedure but rather something else. National Minority Club, Honored Representative Nikola Mak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52402	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen from HRT headed by Director Mr. Galic. Here's the National Minorities Club's been reviewing these reports, and here's our observations and remarks. When we talk about finance, we worry about the decline in total income in 2004 with a simultaneous increase in total expenditure even though HTV has lost one programme in the meantime. In part, this can be justified by the increased volume of investment, but it remains the impression that more consideration should be given to the reduction of costs, i.e. the rationalisation of business. The number of employees rose from 2000 to 2004 from 3505 to 3668 again with one less programme, and therefore no wonder the high share of staff costs of 32%. In addition, transmitters and connections were separated, and a part of the staff must have retired as we can see from the audit report. We are also interested in the item "other business expenditures" of as much as 152 million kuna or 11.3% of total expenditure, which is unusually high for one business financial report, or for one public institution. We think this item deserves a more detailed explanation. We are particularly interested in the pay chapter and this is because they are from public income at 62% of the tax or, as some say from the citizens' tax, a solid basis that allows income to be shown as its own. Therefore, the report shows that the average net salary is 5 thousand and 669 kuna but it would be important to see both the lowest and highest wage, i.e. the wage scale with the number of employees with a fixed salary. We are also interested in other payments such as regresses, jubilee awards and other receipts according to the collective agreement which is not in the report that the directorship has sent but is in the audit report which is not bad, but I think it would not hurt and that it is also in the audit report, and not only in the audit report, and then it must be requested in the third article on this subject. The Assembly is a control body for HRT activity and therefore we consider our questions legitimate and in the interest of HRT service subscribers. About the program. By estimating HR's obedience and HTV's ratings, we can argue that the public's interest is satisfied, but we are warning of their task in sensitizing the public, in developing tolerance and tolerance, and in strictly avoiding the stigmatisation of nationalism, thinking normally of national minorities in the negative phenomena that I report to you, but we also believe that there should be positive examples of national membership when it is in the function of creating a stimulating social atmosphere towards national minorities. We express our dissatisfaction with insufficient information in the languages of national minorities and what has been taken a step backwards in this regard. There used to be regional chronicles for six protected minority languages, and today they are not, despite the fact that the Alliance for National Minorities has launched an initiative to include these chronicles in the programme and thus enables individual regional or minority languages to have their own public presence. In this regard, another monitoring on the implementation of the 2004 Charter on the Protection of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities is also announced. The National Minority Representatives Club also points to the possibility of deliberate or accidental manipulation of public opinion, interviewing listeners and audiences. We point out the sensitivity of certain topics for which the partners, for which conversators and questions are so chosen, that given the time these emissions are broadcast, the answer of the vast majority of listeners or audiences is clear in advance, regardless of the arguments of the individual participants of the show. This can result in great political or moral damage for the true and real interests of the Croatian public and therefore should be very scrupulous and conscientiously asked such sensitive public questions. Compared to the previous report, we are pleased to find a positive fact that TV Prism has again been given a constant broadcast time on the first programme and thus the ratings have been raised to a level of 7-8% to only 2% at a time when it had a fluctuating term. In doing so, we reiterate that Prizum is happy to be seen by members of the majority people. It should therefore be possible, as once, to re-enact it in the later evening, especially since minority members are mostly from rural areas, so they are often unable to monitor this emissions in the only and in the afternoon. We also commend the radio show for the "Agora" minorities, however, it is also a matter of the morning. In conclusion. Due to certain financial and programming remarks, the National Minorities Club will take this report to its knowledge, and its members will vote according to their personal opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52403	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of TV, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I wish we could get up a little bit in this debate that we obviously all really care about, and come from a fundamental question, why this House is discussing television. He certainly debates on television for many reasons, many remarks, perhaps even most of the remarks heard here are useful for those who will implement individual programmes or develop certain aspects of Television, but we are primarily discussing as a political, representative body what is most important, which is what is the role of Television in the development of democracy in Croatian society, which is the role of Television in the development of overall, civilization and all other achievements of this society. And in answer to that question, there are, of course, two additional answers immediately. One is the role of public television, and the other is the role of all other televisions. And in that sense, I think that if we were to have a debate in that direction, that we could be much easier to highlight both the positive elements and also to highlight the negative elements. I have, too, and we are all under certain impressions of the intention to perhaps speak much more strongly about certain phenomena on television itself, but this is almost regularly happening to us to curb rhetoric when we see that they exist in the justified criticism of television. And such intentions that public television does not understand or that want to undermine under appropriate political influences and from these positions then discuss it, of their own satisfaction or dissatisfaction as a criterion for the development of television. If this is about these two reports before us, then we have to be honest. All those who don't have specific information about secrets, the SDP club doesn't have them because we don't have such services to know what some others know, and we don't believe it because we believe the reports and we believe the audit. Then it should be said that great progress has been recorded on television. That this progress is actually from the time, if I can mention one name like that, Eve Bojanić, when television was developing in technical and in all of its bases, this might be the most crucial moment. The most crucial moment where television seas, public television meets the challenge of other commercial televisions, adapts to the whole new era that comes with additional digitizations and where, I think, competition in many ways increases. I think it is well pointed out in the HRT report itself, and although it is primarily dealing with numbers, and perhaps too little with the values I was talking about, from the preamble to the beginning, we can say that it shows success in the context, on the one hand, commercial struggle, on the other hand, in the context where this commercial struggle even leads to mutual bidding in buying foreign programmes, to unhealthy competition, and which is then passed on even to human relations and to the relations of editorial work itself. What is more important to us as a Parliament, in my opinion and in our opinion, in this regard is just a report from the Council, the HRT Programme Council. The HRT Programme Council is what not only for this Assembly, although it is certainly why the report should also be submitted to the Assembly, but in the name of the public it can do what here as atomised individuals or as individual collectiveities we are looking for. The Parliament cannot change the situation on television as it will seek this or the majority that will be found at the meeting's date. But it can only be done by the Programme Council. That's the law, and we didn't pass that law, although it was the second law that we passed on to the shortcut, but precisely because we solved the greatest torment of this Parliament in relation to the public television that everyone here remembers, since most of it was in that House, they remember well. It is the politicisation of the Programme Council itself, it is the creation by the Programme Council of Alternative Political Organisations and Platforms that should have edited TV programmes. It's a mess where television was right at that stage. And we can't help but notice that in these last two, three years, we have a consolidation, a very serious consolidation that has, therefore, stabilized television in business. It makes it modern and competitive, and finally, we cannot reject an assessment which, therefore, we do not bring ourselves but which is also the result of the research, which she gave on Eurovision, that this is the most visible public television in the context of the viewing of certain televisions in their countries. Indeed, televisions, public administrations, and above all, have collapsed around us. They collapsed in Slovenia, crashed in Hungary, crashed in Slovakia, and who knows where else. What happened and it should be one of the main topics of this House, that it happens like that? Because there are interests. There are interests that public television should not be public in order to follow some appropriate political logic, and there are much stronger interests that many here do not notice. These are the interests of ownership, various other media concerts, that television that has a problem as public television is being influenced by another position. And that's the fight this Parliament needs to protect and which is primarily to be found and defined. When we started with new media legislation, then we found that there were at least two types of pressure on public television and on the media at all. There is only one political one, the one everyone here hears and expressed by some representative political body, or political representative body. The other one's the owner. And that aspect, in my opinion, is, in our opinion, we talked about it at the club, maybe it's the most powerful problem of all, which is not only competition problems in the context of the competition but also the human problems and problems of the position of individual editors within television. The problems of the position of individual stars within television and the problems of leadership of television itself. A certain range of different interests from which television is not immune can be seen between one and the other, at a set of phenomena that we seem to have escalated just the last few days. This is the appearance of not one but a series of shows in which in a very strange way, it is explicitly unprofessionally chosen primarily by one opponent. An opponent is elected, which is precisely a representative body, from discussion, many others have mentioned, and I will only discuss the law itself as anti-constitutional law because, as we heard just the other day, he is talking about the right to correction, and since the right to correction is something directly related to the freedom of editorial policy. So there are advocates of different interests of major concerts, but there are no representatives of the same body to say what he thinks about it. If, therefore, there will be a topic of parliamentary representation, not individuals, but in general. Politicians, not individuals, but in general. If the topic is to decriminalise every form of slander, if the topic is that even correction is not something that is an integral part of the honesty of journalistic work, then we wonder whether it is primarily in the interest of public television. Because the only thing that public television can and must be different from other televisions is that this will be in her interest to be true, to speak competently, to choose partners who can express not some political balance but balances of knowledge about certain shows or about certain phenomena. On the contrary, such things happen, and I would like to say that and I will say that regardless of whether the statement is going to be a little hard, and that is that in certain shows, especially recently, it's almost as if we see the design of what the yellow press has, and that is the pattern with some specific information, so to say, intelligence underworlds from which the evaluations of events agree, about individuals and about our present. It has been escalating lately and as politicians, which we have, we are obliged to think about and why it has been escalating lately. Is it really someone who wants to give an additional argument that this little or medium or a lot, however you want, to the public that has been put into question on public television? Is it possible that this kind of provocation, because I thus judge them on several occasions that occur unfortunately and public television does not serve her discrediting for some other purposes? In the part of the debate we have heard here, it seems to us that these other purposes are and that is why we are concerned, and that is why we cannot accept both of these reports and we will accept them, but that is why this is not diminishing all of this from the criticism that we have said here ourselves. I think that the Parliament must be at the level of great responsibilities, the great responsibilities involved and the focus of this enlargement of pseudo truths related to the Croatian history of current and inaccurate events on television and know how to distinguish when something is criticised and know how to tell what to support, and why not to give support. The instrument reached on behalf of the public, not just on behalf of the Parliament is exactly the independent body we have, it is the HRT Programme Council. Looking at and reading the report, each one could see that many of these issues that are here with more or less bitterness are precisely issues that the Council also referred to and that cooperation has been achieved, starting with regular meetings, leading to the reduction of certain deficits that arise. A few of the things the Council has asked for in this way from the programme leadership have also been adopted. Of course, at this point, the Council may not be as strong as we'd all like it to be, but it's on a good path, which, unlike that council that you all remember well, is a strict and rigorous principle that would be important to respect it here and here in the Parliament, and that is that there is no editing of shows outside of the editors' shows themselves, outside the editorial colleges, but that there can be criticism and criticism is and either as there is criticism here. We are also the ones who cannot and cannot edit TV shows, but we are invited to criticise them and we can criticize them and criticise them, public criticism is not an interference in editorial policy because it comes afterwards on the basis of freedom and responsibility that must be managed by all those individuals responsible for implementing the relevant policy. I'd like to say one more thing in favor of public television that was underrated here. It is interesting that in this whole competition with commercial televisions that are among other things and political competition, because political pressures are what I was talking about earlier, starting with the issue of correction and further, that in all of this the content on HTV concerning public television is more viewed than the content that does not concern it, are still informative-political emissions, emissions that are somehow drawn up as mosaics about the current events of the far-sighted emissions. Even the domestic production of different shows is more visible, if the data we have isn't cheating on us from foreign ones. So let's figure out one way of public television that is positive from the serious mistakes that have been made on it lately, but also those mistakes that we can make here as our observations and our understanding that mistakes can be made in terms of treatment by the only bodies that are set up for it and that should be supported in order to carry out their function, which is, of course, the Programme Council. If the Parliament is going to solve the problems of HTV, then I think these problems can't be solved at all, then we're going to get another sad picture of the fall of public television that rises to what I already mentioned is a feature in some other countries. This field would be good because of the public's interest that it may be more debated in Parliament, perhaps not just on one... in the context of parliamentary procedures as well as perhaps in public debates, but if it is public debates, then without special appointments, I can do what I was saying, or in seeing positive trends on television, they recorded both externally, so to speak, observational organisations, as well as what there were topics and positive assessments on some of the discussions that were conducted by public television in our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52405	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52406	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that the Croatian radiotelevision in the past period was successful in the competition. It is true that the Croatian radiotelevision itself has been extremely successful in identifying, i.e. the parrotic imitation of private television, and the law in Articles 5, 6 and 7 clearly states what the content of public television is. It is also not true that public television is only different from private television in telling the truth. Public television must differ from private television by differentiating software waste from a quality program because you kill a subscription for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52407	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52408	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I am correcting Mr. Vujic's guilty allegations that great progress has been made. What kind of progress is that if your own productions are getting smaller and expensive external productions and problematic licensing programs are getting more and more? So public national television increasingly resembles commercial, but with less financial success and not much progress in reducing the minute and educational and artistic productions because of all the artistic work left only the advertising of the cigarette gallery.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52409	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52410	Thank you very much. It is incorrect to say that before 2000, the Croatian radiotelevision ruled over destruction. In fact, before 2000 they were in the 1990s, and in those years Croatia-radiotelevision was then and only then acting as national television because it followed the Serbian aggression, the Homeland War, so that it contributed to the liberation of Croatia. If it's broken up for you, it's not for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52411	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52412	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not true that Croatia's radiotelevision as a public television crashes major media concerts. That's completely incorrect. They are only competition and their natural right to fight for theatre. The Croatian radiotelevision destroys, above all, the people within it itself, destroying Mr. Latin with the kind of show we saw last night, destroying even the people in the Programme Council. I will be very brief and list from the minutes we can see on the Internet what Mr. Bljajic says in that sense. He says it is not a good practice, that programme leadership attends, listen, meetings of parliamentary committees and answers the questions of MPs. Please imagine, therefore, that it is not a good practice for public broadcasting to come into the body, to the Parliament that founded it, to monitor it and to follow it and to hear it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52413	Thank you very much. This second part is not a correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Bagarić, but is one comment, one explanation. The first part is, please stick to it, I'm giving you a warning about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Understand that once, gentlemen, that you may choose to hold on to it. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52414	Mr Vujic said that the SDP Club has no reports of Croatian secretions, nor has there been such services as to give it those reports. That's not true. Mr. Vujic was correcting nothing less than Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović just before she very Decededely said correcting the quote of her colleague, Andrija Hebrang, that he did not exactly show HRT's business. So, Mr. Vujic says they have no knowledge of the secrets and Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic correcting her colleague says that Mr. Andrija Hebrang does not show exactly the business of HRT. So, typical party. And a second correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52415	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52416	Mr. President, I thank you for reacting so that my breach of the Rules of Procedure is not needed, but I would ask you one more thing if you could somehow do not discuss things those who have no idea at all understood any of what I was saying. I don't know if there's anything you can do. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52417	A fellow Vujic, you are also reminded because it is offensive, an illusion of some MPs that you have qualified to be ignorant, that they do not know what they are talking about and what they are all about. It's an insult, an insult to an attorney, even though you haven't identified who. Honorable representative Ivo Loncar also has a breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52418	Mr. President, Mr. Vujic violated Article 209 and Article 214. When it comes to Croatian radio-television, to explain it, I find it difficult to lower myself to Mr. Vujic's level because I've been in that house for twenty years and I know how it works and he's passed the most generous law that knows the history of electronic media and therefore scratches where it it itches.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52419	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. It's not even a breach of the rules of procedure. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure by you, Mr. Loncar and you for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52420	Mr. President, now you have to give me a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52421	What am I gonna give you?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52422	A chance to say one correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52423	I'll give you a warning if you hurt your rules of procedure, I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52424	All right. It is an incorrect claim by an esteemed representative that, after negative connotation, Slovenian and Slovak television have collapsed. Why? Here is the Croatian famous portal Iskon says that on September 25th, two options were offered to Slovenian citizens. One option says: "Slovenian voters are for a new Radio-Television Act recently adopted by parliament, which the ruling centre-right coalition interprets as the need for business rationalisation and better informational balance on public television, which has, in recent years, been dominated by the influence of left-wing parties." And it was offered to citizens a second option that says: "The opposition parties and a good part of the left-wing journalists have urged voters to plead against the law that they claim reduces the autonomy of journalists and more dependence on politics because it predicts government and parliament to elect a supervisory and programme council."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52425	Seventh Amendment of Honored Representative Maria Byte. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52426	And now I'm just asking if it's a serious enough argument to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52427	Mr. Cervar, please sit down. Mr. Cervar you have a warning, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52428	...that the Slovenian television has fallen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52429	Don't break the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52430	No, I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52431	Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52432	I told the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52433	It's not the truth. It's the time. Honourable representative Kresimir Ćosic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52434	Mr. Vujic said, quote, we will accept this report. It's just not true. I'm sure we won't and we can't accept a report like this. We can't accept unprofessionalism, incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52435	Don't help me. Thanks for your help. Don't help me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52436	If I have to, I'll quote again. Mr Vujic said we would accept this report. It's just not true. We won't accept such a report, we won't accept what it says, we won't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52437	Comrade Ćosic, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. You have a warning. You're welcome to stick with that. Well, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, what's the matter with you? Why? Is that what you do out of trouble, or do you do it on purpose, or do you do it on purpose? Or you work with a special imagination to break, I won't tell everyone because I can't tell everyone. But there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure here. Those who break it then call for the right to breach. When they are warned of it, they have no right to do so, then they complain that their rights have been violated. The hypocrite reigns at a very high level. Dear representative Maria Byte is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52438	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vujic, speaking of buying foreign programmes to unfair competition from commercial television, said it was a struggle this Parliament needs to protect. Namely, it is incorrect because Croatian television as a public television has a different task, it must not ignore its role as public television and there is also in the position of subscription which is a second position. And as public television, it has the task of protecting those contents that have no interest in other television, which are the social, moral and national values of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52439	And respected representative Marko Turic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52440	Dear President, he's a respected representative to minorise these events on television, so he said these are some provocative shows, so the pseudo shows, and so on. It's incorrect. I'll say the next very mild. They're relapsers. Not just that, worse. It is true that Croatian television must stick to a law that says "events must be faithfully displayed and different approaches and opinions must be properly represented." This is not the case of gentlemen on Croatian television. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52441	We will continue at 3 p.m. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52442	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is next on behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52443	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Programme Council, Mr. Director, editors, colleagues and colleagues, in the second part of the meeting of this day of the Croatian Parliament, I liked to speak first after the debates that were often bile, which sometimes passed the measure allowed so I don't know if I could possibly write it off in part and write it off at the expense of today's date of course you know we are all today at 13th of December. It may, in part, affect all that is said today And St. Luca's, that's right. [[Intruder: Saint Luca.]] But I have to start perhaps in a controversy and look back at some statements from my colleagues who said among other things that people representing Croatian radio television today are almost on the defendant's bench. Of course I don't think so. I don't think so because it's not a courtroom. This is a Assembly Hall in which you can speak openly about any problem and any perceived lack that is the subject of our debate. And that's why I don't think these people are on the defendant's bench. They're lucky for me, and probably lucky for all of us, they can't be charged here. They can only hear what they might not want to hear, but that's not why our grades are ultimately different than they would have been if we hadn't said. Because we have just been invited in this Chamber to talk about all the shortcomings when it comes to Croatian television and all the public functions and all the public activities financed from the State budget or from Croatian citizens' money. And why don't you hear both right and wrong? And it's normal for us Parliamentarians, whether we're in a position or an opposition, to be critical of what we're discussing. Because good things don't really need to be discussed. That's good. And we all agree that this set of Croatian radio-televisions has taken this, in this direction certain steps that should be clearly welcomed and recognised here. But I also don't mean to talk about what's well done. I think I'm talking about what I'm assessing isn't well done to hope that next year's annual report will be even better. And here this annual Croatian Radio Television report for 2004 arrived as we already know in the summer period on our benches, and you see only today almost mid-12 months we discuss it. I'm not so sure that she, that today, is all and all. But in Prisavlje, as we have seen, there is always enough material to discuss, and every day there is almost one topic that could be processed in the Croatian Parliament, which is best shown during this debate when we all actually started to discuss last night's TV show. Of course, such TV shows have daily, and this may be a big advantage, and it is also a big, big flaw because it has to be manifested daily about problems and it is absolutely impossible to determine the direction of every debate and be sure what will happen every day on television, especially if it is about live broadcasts or live broadcasts. And that is why I can understand that everything is talked about and that it is spoken with a perfectly good intention, but not in any way with the intention of actually condemning people here and accusing them because fortunately there is a Law on Croatian Radio and Television that clearly speaks to whose competences and who has to do what under the new Law and I mean the best, in fact, praise for this Law. We are not here to replace or disable the existing leadership for their work, but we are obliged as owners, as founders of Croatian Radio and Television to openly discuss everything, and on the people we chose to assess whether our discussions were founded, whether they were on the trail of the best manners of truth and justice and to take all the steps that should be taken on this issue. And that's their autonomy, and that's their right, and I'm going to be on this bench, and I'm going to always stand for that right of all the media independence. The smaller the impact of politics, the less the impact of any lobby on public change, on those who create public change, the more significant their role will be, their assessment will be more objective and it will actually be able to be quite sure I am better able to achieve my role and their mission in society. But I will also say something here about a consolidated business report for Croatian Radio Television for 2004. The report speaks of a consolidated house and a billion-dollar income and 376 million kuna. And as they say, these revenues cover the expenditures and make a profit of 2.5 more than the plan, as much as they do by 1.2% compared to 2003. Total expenditures were higher than the 3.5% plan or a billion 372 million kuna plan and profits were achieved at 2.7 million kuna as reported in the report. The expenditure increased by 46 million kuna in comparison to the plan or 47.47 million more than in 2003. Whenever I talk about business, although it is not the most important role of Croatian television to be a profitable institution, but whenever I talk about the business of public enterprises, I continue to argue that the biggest flaw is that public companies always spend what they earn, and if possible more because they know that revenues will come no matter what the result of their activity. And I therefore think that these indicators are not the best and that they could have been better if they had been more rational and better behaved on Croatian radio-television. On the expenditure side, a significant cost of waste on the staff costs item, including employees' salaries, travel and daily fees and outstanding claims. Staff costs have increased by €29.92 million more than in 2003, and other business expenditures have increased by 49.8%. One reason is that the costs have been raised to prevent the outflow of quality personnel so that Croatian radio and television can deal with competitive houses. I would ask, however, if Croatian Radio Television is not largely funded from the subscription, and it is also recognised that the Law on the broadcasting of the propaganda programme, and as far as we know, on television, there are excellent journalists who have not been getting their jobs right for years because they are currently or then or now are not responding. In addition to the extra employees, I always argue that on Croatian television very little is being saved on daily and travel because we could testify this summer if you remember in shows about Dalmatian places where journalists were sent for paid vacations in my own court. According to Dalmatia, journalists are sent from Zagreb, Rijeka, Istria and other parts. So they probably also do in other regional centres, I am fully convinced, and I point out this because I am well aware of the opportunities in the center of Split which is also neglected in such businesses. The regional centres because journalists who know the situation better on the ground than journalists who have nothing to do with the ending they came to and that's why their shows and their watches can't be assessed as good. I'm talking first of all about the Split Centre, and I don't think it's any different in other regions, it would save on employees' costs, and the show would certainly be better quality. I'm always saying it's easy to spend money that's gonna come eventually, and if God doesn't give it to you, you don't get a subscription or a fee, then it's going to be quick to do it the way your colleagues used to say it, and that poor thing might get taken away from someone because he can really be a luxury to some pensioner. Well, why don't you let him listen to the radio in the future, 'cause he's got a better position in it. The revenue from the subscription as I have already mentioned is almost 60% of the revenue and this fee is the most important reason why I oppose this treatment and marginalisation of regional centres throughout Croatia. If the subscription is paid equally, we also allow all our ends to be represented evenly and on national television because the public must be informed of the events, primarily in its area. Our centers are technically and humanely well teamed, and on equal representation today under this scheme you will admit there is no speech. The viewers must be wizards to guess when their center will be involved and when they will actually be able to see something that they are most directly interested in. And that's why it's no wonder viewers turn to local and commercial television often. According to our law, Croatian TV is public television, and in reality I think that... Unfortunately, it goes very slowly, with a snail step, and if it does, I am convinced in the right direction, and most of all thanks to the former government who was the initiator of the amendment of the Law on HRT as much as some attack it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our ambition was particularly focused on moving the policy on Croatian broadcasting, because the main task of public television is to provide space for different opinions for proper information to the public. In particular, I mean local topics, regional culture, television can be, can't be politically colored. Public television must be equally available to all political, ethnic, racial, social and subcultural groups. I'm going to set an example here that particularly bothers me personally, and on behalf of the club, I have to say it. As we have observations on last night's Latin, on some other emissions that have been sanctioned, we have large remarks on a recently released show that opened last week about HSS. Last Monday, she was on the part of an inappropriate and cheerleading role and public television where she was manifested herself in both the trendy and all the visible cheerleaders according to a particular circle of people from that show and the intention of the editor and the director of the show by which television was directly included within the party's oldest party, in a party belonging to HSS, it is totally unacceptable for me and I condemn such a way of working. We at HSS have received some satisfaction because we have received a statement on the next show, but I expect a clearer statement from the Programme Council on the disputed show, and I expect an apology from the editor. Something like this hasn't been seen in a long time, and there have been Benign cases when people who were protagonists were both moved and inadequately and their wages were taken away. It seems to me that lately we've been witnessing affairs on television that aren't exactly devoid of politics, political cleanups, clean-ups with non-insanes. It is about removing journalists who do not work on the orders of certain circles, because a journalist who dares to have his opinion is often suspended or the right to pay is taken away, which we cannot welcome. On HRT, regardless of our ambitions, there have always been many after my assessment and many others who are always the ruling policy, because in these people, the flag is always white and against it, I assure you, it can be very difficult... Unfortunately, they are not punished but promoted and promoted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to some editors and journalists, as never before on HTV, HTV is faced with unrecorded pressures from large corporations and any lobbys that blackmail Croatian radiotelevision by disposing of sponsorship and advertising contracts if negatively spoken of. Advertisers have a major impact on editorial policy. The real question is how much and how can public television objectively resist outside pressures. Whether our public television can be denied commercial and marketing-propaganda revenues, and all for the purpose of full objectivity and independence despite the revenue from the subscription and fee paid by viewers is the question of which Programme Council and Directorate must find an answer. If the money obtained from advertisers is conditioned by a way of commenting and a non-critical reference to those same advertisers, then it must be an important influence on the editorial policy of television and makes it dependent on the influence of financial powers who want their truth and the truth that they actually want to hear. There's plenty for that. I'll just list some. First of all, everyone knows the dispute between the national oil giant and Mrs Vesna Balenovic. Then the world's powermaker Coca-Cola and HTV journalist Branko Šeparović, Belupa and similar. If they've managed to move politically, if we've managed to remove the political paw somewhat from the crucial influence on editorial policy, which I'm holding a major shift in relations on our media scene, then at least it's the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52444	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52445	... important to disable any other external influence on editorial policy. And that's why I think the fight in this sense is certainly very, very important and that it needs to be done to get the television out of the way, that is to say, clean away from any outside influences. That's why...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52446	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52447	I thank you, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52448	I think that as chairman, I can testify, I hope that both the Chief Director and the President of the Programme Council and their associates do not feel that they are on the defendant's bench. They are on the bench reserved by the Prime Minister and members of the Government and explain their report. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52449	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of Croatian Radio Television. My colleague incorrectly told me about great ratings and audaciousness. Namely, it is very little seen and heard, mostly from the southern sides of the island of Brac, Solta, Drvenik, Visa, Lastova and Korčula. So I'm making an appeal, let's make it work that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52450	Let go of the appeal. Correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52451	That's the rectification of the quote. Everyone should be able to watch and be informed...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52452	It's a request and an appeal, it's not a correction of an incorrect quote to this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52453	... what happens in Croatia, because we pay equal payments as everyone else. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52454	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52455	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting several incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague named Luke Roic. The first is the incorrect quote that you, as your colleague said, are shows like last night's Latin, showing up every day. They don't show up every day. We had two of the most recent examples of last night's Latina and a former Open. It's also incorrect that he said that more or less such shows go live. At Latina, it's just the nature of the problem that she didn't go live because it's always recorded before. And the third incorrect allegation that HSS is the oldest party in Croatia. You know that HSP is older. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52456	Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52457	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Kovačević partially corrected what I reported about, not around HSP, but about the fact that shows like last night Latina are very often on Croatian television. That's not true. Last night's Latina was precisely timed for today's debate and was intended to direct today's debate, discuss last night's Latina and draw attention from the financial business of Croatian broadcasters. And that's what Mr. Latin did very professionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52458	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52459	A colleague, Roic, said HRT is public television. My colleague Roic, she should be public by law, but she's not. I ask you, I ask myself, I ask this Assembly, I ask guests from Television, which public is Croatian television. Latina doesn't go live, that's the problem. I didn't want to mention the name of that author at all, because I've known his early work since 89 and in 94 he's become a professional Democrats. You said politics shouldn't affect the program, it really does. Many shows falsify Croatian national history and create a painful mood among Croatian broadcasters. As far as business is concerned, there are 3 thousand 688 people employed there, still so many working as external associates, and Croatian broadcasting can function with 2.5 thousand people, the HRT system. And in these five years, you have to ask the question of what I'm going to talk about in my debate, how many new people have been admitted, how many have retired and how many have been obtained an internship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52460	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, further respected Mr. Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52461	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Roic, who said that public companies spend more than they earn. Fortunately, not all public companies spend more than they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52462	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52463	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a few words about these two reports from the HSP Club. The debate so far has shown unequivocally that many remarks can be made to the work of Croatian television regarding the quality and structure of the programme, the use of Croatian language, the contribution of HRT to the preservation of Croatian heritage and tradition, sensationalism and professionalism of the performance of the business, the quantity and quality of its own production programme, etc. etc. All of this actually stated so far here in some shortened form suggests that Croatia's broadcasting is actually fulfilling its basic mission as public television. Public television in Croatia should be Croatian-oriented, but recent growth has been seen not only of Croatian emissions but of anti-Croatian content. Everything that is Croatian is trying to show up as out, and different globalisation trash mixed with Balkan stimuli is portrayed as something in. That kind of television brainwashing is getting more and more and more and it's causing concern, and it's manifesting itself in different ways. In recent times, it has been present as a trend of overthrowing the integrity of the legislative authority through a negative approach, and some of my predecessors have already spoken about it. Of course, such an approach is not noticeable for the government and the president of the state, but it is noticeable for the legislative authority, and in this sense one media manipulation of the HRT which, among other things, stands out in shame and insults the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, which I personally experience as the highlight of the media racketeering. What counterpart Cain said, we all think, no one dares say that, because if TV takes you on the tooth, it will blacken you out in public, and then your chances as a politician are certainly minimal. But, well, on behalf of the HSP Club, I dare say that. The HRT programme is increasingly commercialised, more and more aggressive commercials, soaps, second-rate films and third-rate outdated TV series. Of course, all of this is contained in the report of the Programme Council, because the programme council has seen quite correctly these things that I am talking about, and several times in fact tried to change it and it is written in the report of the Programme Council and I would ask all colleagues to distinguish the report of the Programme Council which, by law, cannot edit the Croatian Radio-Television Programme but can only monitor its work and bring criticism. The fact that the director and editors-in-chief of Television, these critical opinions of the Programme Council, do not respect and act on the principle of "dogs bark, caravan passes" is actually our problem, not the program council problem. So, in addition to the fact that the information program has become one combination of the black chronicle and European successes of the prime minister, i.e. self-secret Croatian Eurostructs and the demeaning of the Croatian Parliament as well as the media, and in particular TV today are the main source of influence on culture, ideas and behavioural models, it is questionable in fact whose system of values HRT is trying to build. If I deny a planial approach, it is worse because it is evidence of anarchy and the absence of a system which is as bad if not worse than a distortion, i.e. becoming a distorted system of values. In doing so, it should be emphasized the amazing inclination of HRT to the spectacle and sensationalism without a basic sense of responsibility for the given and displayed, regardless of whether it is informational, entertainment-recreation or cultural content. In this regard, given the strength and ability of the media to influence individual family social behavior, the responsibility of those who are able to act with the power of the media should also be considered. It is, of course, again here already mentioned the media news racketeering that we are, in fact, everyone who deals with politics is aware of, and not only of the politics at all. Promoting consummism, which is characteristic of private or commercial television, is an increasingly sad presence on HRT as well. Direct or indirect advertising creates a false image, one fiction about an individual, society and the world, and that is certainly a disaster for one community because then everything becomes questionable and the pursuit of good becomes just as valuable as the pursuit of bad. In such relationships, then, there is no room for any serious debate, and that means that there is no room for truth either. The latest example of "Latinica" here is as an example of what I'm saying, a few dozen times pointed out. I would therefore warn you of an initiative for HTV public television that has received I think more clubs here, but no one has talked about it so far, I have it in my hand, it is an initiative signed on by 53 prominent Croatian broadcasters, i.e. Croatian television. So these are people who have exhibited themselves not only like us politicians and public workers to the media racket, but at this point have exposed themselves to simply losing their jobs. They bear witness to what I'm saying with their names and names, so you'll allow me a few excerpts from their initiative. They say: The role of Croatian television is as public television to provide those educational and elitist content for which commercial television has no interest. Its role in maintaining social, moral and national values and social sensitivity is also important. We claim that HTV has ignored its role as public television as it is cherished in the countries of European democracy. That HTV must maintain such a role because it creates a special position and right to subscription. It is a quote from their initiative, and I will add on behalf of the HSP club: It should be made clear and loud, it is a subscription, ladies and gentlemen, a tax on the purchase of television, LCD or plasma screens. And it's a life tax on buying these electronic devices. That life tax doesn't stop even when you retire. Buy a TV set and you'll pay that tax to buy that TV for the rest of your life. And that's true. HTV has strayed, therefore, in the competition with commercial televisions, but the question is raised again from this initiative, I quote: "Are they paid as finished products of the emissions recorded by the technical means of HTV itself". And I want answers to these questions, Mr Galicu and the editors of Croatian television. Whether their own underpaid professionals, cameramen, installers, lighting, etc. are involved. In creating profits for external production houses as a rental force? If external production houses for the production of content that can be produced cheaper within HTV are involved. Is there transparency in the selection of the authors of emissions and production houses and in the payment of products or fees? Is there a purpose and justification in the context of the fulfilment of programming obligations, or is it individual arbitration decisions? Is there a justification for fees or is it a plea at a personal or interesting level? The signatories of the initiative say, we ask that the purpose and justification of selected external production programmes be assessed in the context of the fulfillment of public television programming and that transparency of the selection process and the contracts signed themselves be assessed. That demand is also being joined by the HSP club. The flow of money into the external production of predominantly profanised content exhausts the resources of HTV needed to meet the programming requirements of public television and significantly reduces the possibilities of their own production of the drama, documentary and play programme. How much of the current program has been sold abroad, gentlemen editors who boast about the state of HTV? How long will it be possible to rephrase in 10 or 30 years as we watched the replays until recently different HTV shows from "Little Mish", "Mejasha" and not to mention further? What can be added to the foundation of permanent HTV values that have been generating HTV's reputation since 1956 since your production you've produced over the past few years? The management structure must not lead HTV as a private television but responsible for the general public, according to the reputation of the house and the human and technical resources it has, maintaining the criteria of professionality. Specific television skills such as recording, installation, etc. have been underestimated, and a caste of managers, orderers and editors without journalistic credibility is created which participate in the gray distribution of subscription money, which is actually a tax on TV possession. We claim that the appointments do not respect the general principles of the profession. Journalists were appointed editors of newspapers and news without any journalistic contributions. For correspondents with less years of internship on HTV, neither the provisions of the Labour Act, nor the collective contract or internal rules on work and systemisation, which prescribe certain conditions of years of internship or other special conditions which are not respected for certain functions. We ask that the practice of non-insatisfactory employment and artificial appointments be suspended, leading to cheerleading and semi-tronic journalism and tarnishing the free critical word. Staff policy is being run tenorously, people's choices are being made according to the unilateral values of the "ours" and "theirs" definition or "I like it", "I don't like it". The favouring of journalists of a political commitment leads to a worrying imbalance in the objectivity of information. The programme's fins are too often recognizable and trendy, and they do not have a panda on the other side of the political spectrum, leading to imbalances and overallity of the programme. On the other hand, journalists of a different commitment or those in which such a fama was created have been stigmatized and their work has been disabled. A whole generation of journalists, protagonists, different political options, were pushed off HTV or marginalized. HTV, however, must represent a total of social movements, and the conservative commitment of ladies and gentlemen is as legitimate as left, liberal, progressive or any other. If the previous HTV was exclusively directed to the left, it cannot justify the exclusion to the conservative definition and vice versa. The programme policy must not rely on authority or ideological commitment, and the only criterion must be journalistic professionalism that separates itself from personal commitment. Protagonists of cheerleading journalism are protected by exclusive contracts while a number of professional journalists are being kept in the loop and their public approach is filtered which gives the impression of programme action. All of this shows that human policy is being run tentically in the effort of an interested group to gain human domination on HTV for the purpose of long-term achievement of social impact and financial breakthrough. So, Mr. Galic, if we're to trust you to believe that you're not to blame for what happened yesterday, you must be responsible because your editors are guilty. And by the end, I'm running out of time, I didn't make it, but allow me just a few things. The cost of professional training of employees a million and 666 thousand kunas that we have no idea where they were educated and why these employees were educated because they were not mentioned. The intellectual services of a million and 800 thousand 15 kuna refer to consulting services, audit services and other intellectual services. The legal services of a single law firm which, carefully, collects and sends notices for the payment of an subscription of 4 million kuna and the most significant amount are paid to that law firm on the basis of the executive procedures concerning the non-payment of HTV subscription. And, Mr. Galic, for the end, please answer these questions. It's like you're on Open now. How many employees on HTV who go on average over 15 thousand kuna, and say that number? All receipts, so with everything, don't pay for it. Secondly, what is the ratio of receiving HTV 150 managers, or 150 of the best-paid people on HTV. That's a map of the first 150 against 150 parliamentary deputies. Third, did you use the official car that you were traveling with, who paid for it, how the fuel was calculated? How much did the hotel costs cost for you and your family and members of your family during the visit and attendance of Davis Cup and Bratislava, and did you submit your official travel and expenses report and how much costs?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52464	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52465	And finally, why does public television have secret contracts? If something is called public television, why don't you tell me why there are secret business contracts hidden in a business secret? Why there are secret contracts and wage managers, and that applies to you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52466	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52467	And what are your benefits under that contract?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52468	Thank you very much, please, over. Done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52469	Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52470	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52471	Well, in his very inspired speech, counterpart Rosic spoke about the education of journalists, talking about creating new castes. There are no new castes there, but that there are people without conditions that have been admitted to these jobs and that this violates the Statute of the HRT, it is very important. Main journalists on Croatian TV...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52472	Inaccuracy of the quote, colleague Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52473	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52474	Inaccuracy of the quote. Who is it, what is incorrect in the presentation of Agent Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52475	Yeah, it's not exactly about education, but I wanted to get to that new caste I wanted to say something because there are major journalists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52476	You can't, you have to correct the incorrect quote, it's under the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52477	But here's a waiter who's got $15,000 there, and you see how many of our constituency waiters have.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52478	But you weren't correcting an incorrect quote. Don't do this to me. And the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52479	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is incorrect that Mr Miroslav Rožić said that 53 HTV employees had sent this truly shocking protest since last night when I received it another 6 joined. I think you should give the principal a chance at this moment to read about it because it's a strong resistance movement of people with a name and a last name, much stronger than the 22 forum that I belonged to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52480	Thank you. PGS, SBH, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52481	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Galic and his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So after the whole day is colored with a lot of hard and strong words about importance, perhaps the most important thing in Croatia that represents HTV let the club of small parties, the club of regional parties PGS, SBHS and MDS manifest about this in perhaps a slightly different way with a lower octave, at a lower level, but we will also try to say some of our opinions that we think if there is an ear that wants to hear it, maybe it won't be all to throw away. We will accept the report at the club because we hold that Croatian television is public television and simplified independently of all the faults it has is the best television in the Republic of Croatia and we do not doubt it, and we think that occasionally in the competition with commercial and private TVs happens to cross the border of its public and that it could be taken into account, however, as people who deal with politics and as viewers, we would say that one day more like it, another day less, that good and bad depends on what and what topics it is dealing with and whether it is in accordance with our views or not, and in the end, the whole of this debate since this morning marks actually one attitude towards Croatian television through which it is clearly seen that the evaluations are brought first of all through its own opinion whether the realisation of personal, then political and then also political desires is realised better or weaker through HTV, and in this regard to one part of the person is not like it. But in this debate, I will mention two predecessors. One is Mr. Pupovac who used a good syntagma, and he said, he used it, tried to explain and say something about the standard of public speech culture. We think that HTV as public television is the one that should definitely seriously promote a new standard of public speech culture, strive for it to go to a higher level, to go to the state where the majority people are the one who has a thousand years of literacy, a thousand-year culture of public dialogue, and we in that standard would suggest that it seems to be slightly established, of course that it is sometimes lower and higher, it has its good takeoffs, and there are examples when it falls quite low. In this regard, we would evaluate the programme ourselves, and then we would also evaluate the standard of culture of public dialogue in one part where we don't think it has reached the levels that need to be achieved through two things. It seems to us that this standard is sometimes a little biased, and sometimes superficial, and we think that in that sense professional people who run HTV and its parts should take a little account. This bias is manifested by us in the sense that sometimes quite biasedly they choose the general values that are processed on HTV as public television, but always someone responds absolutely with a general interest. Political topics are also chosen in a biased way, especially sometimes favored by the left-right political division in Croatia, which, we are deeply hoping, is not a dominant political division and we think that it is a little overcoming and that for this reason, HTV should also be a little better correspondence with this topic. In terms of the representation of Croatian spaces or to say Croatian regions in the informative political programme of Croatian television, bias is very prominent, I will later say something more, there are disadvantaged areas and landscapes, there are favoured areas and landscapes. The second feature of this standard of public speech culture that is created on HTV is occasionally a very strong surface. I'll say it through one part just as an example, there are others. I'm not saying that it dominates, the surface is visible, I'd say on some topics that are extremely insufficiently shown in terms of expertise, and it comes from the topic, and it's starting with the announcement that there's something very professional about doing it, and that, instead of a professional, adds always the necessary amount of salt that is political, ideological, even if these topics are not, and then it's quite clear that the analysis of these topics is wrong. One of the things I often talk about from this pay phone is health care. I'll back that up. HTV has worked very hard to process health information in the Republic of Croatia, but it has worked in a way that health information is presented to Croatian television viewers in a way that is a conflict of two clans, former government clans and clans from this government who have been fighting before, I hope to millions of HTV viewers about who had better, and who is weaker control of health information that is a big business and are actually viewers who sat down in front of the television to hear something that might improve the functioning of health services that actually listen to vomit that talked about who took more commissions you know, and that's a couple of excellent professional topics. Second, also from a similar area. HTV has handled a very good topic of development of the hospital system in Croatia, and you know what that looked like? The show was like this, the rib, then the rib, the rib, the rib, Dubrava, and then the mud, and then we'll renovate the mud, and then Rebro, Rebro, Dubrava, and then it seems that all Croatians or Croatian citizens live in Zagreb, that they all go to Zagreb hospitals only and that the development of hospital health in the Republic of Croatia is exclusively the development of Zagreb health care. I don't remember the informative political programme of Croatian television when he brought the problem and tried in two minutes, not in hours to talk about the catastrophic situation of hospital health in Split, about the catastrophic situation of hospital health in Pula, about having one clinic in Slavonia or, for example, one million people. that for 10 years we've been talking, and actually the caravans have been passing on a new KBC in Rijeka. You know, and now it's trying to show up as an analytical approach, we've done it very well. No, I don't think that surface you're HTV like our public television should allow. I'd also like to say something about the relationship of the subject. I have already said, the bias is very pronounced when you look at a little about which topics are discussed and what the representation of certain areas of the Republic of Croatia is in the HTV programme. Then, we absolutely have over the average representation of the centre, I will say metropolis, and Croatian peripheral areas of the Croatian region or I will make fun of the words the provinces are represented are disastrously weak. Croatia today cannot satisfy with one part the needs of the Croatian society that it is, because Croatia is the form it is, has its regional identities and has its regional problems as it is. However, we alone and only have this Croatia today. It's a special story, and I'll say about it, it's without a lot of complexes the representation of political parties in the information-political HTV programme. Mr. Galić, you also remember when you were director and before you before you, we had occasional meetings of representatives of political parties who were represented in the Assembly with HTV leadership, we got analysis, we got reports, we got minutes, we complained about it, we weren't too satisfied, but we saw these percentages, and those curves and those cakes, diagrams, but it's been gone for several years. I must say on behalf of the small parties that we have a serious objection to this. I'll tell you why. No one in a fair and correct political game called the democratic electoral system in Croatia can be ignored and ignored in this game. And that is negligible compared to how we were treated during the difficult times of 1992, 93, 94, 95, 96. We had the right to seconds, we had the right to minutes, we had the right to say what we wanted from our work, to present it to all of Croatia, and not only to publish it in that Croatia today so that God would not see in Osijek what we in Rijeka think or that those in Split would not see what they think in Čakovec. Therefore, we had a more correct and fair relationship with small political parties. And I'll say about it, small parties are relatively small as big ones and I'd like to say it for the public. In fact, when you take the big parties to work in twenty counties and achieve 6% of national ratings and some other party that is small works in one county and achieves 1% or 2%, I think that in mathematics of relative importance we can argue for a very long time. Therefore, I think that something must change to the right of all those who are parliamentary and who have achieved parliamentaryity in a legal way to be adequately represented in the central information-political programmes of our public televisions of Croatia, and that is absolutely zero right now. Only those who have declared themselves large and their representatives very often have the right to explain and give lectures to HTV viewers on all topics. Perhaps in all the other groups I represent there are those who have a lot of knowledge and more and better knowledge on certain topics than many who cover themselves conditionally by the size of their parties. For that reason, in the end, I'd like to make it clear. We will launch serious political initiatives according to the leadership of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President, according to you as Head of Croatian Television in this direction to make an analysis and see if I was telling the truth, is Istria represented the same as Zagreb, is the Dalmatian Zagora represented the same as Zagreb, is Čakovec represented as Zagreb on public television? Are the islands represented equally? You know, to see if it can be mentioned in any central information-political show within a year, no regional party and those of 92 with different MPs will participate in this parliament, and even now they are participating with seven MPs and I think they have the right to express their opinion to the general Croatian public and not just through local programmes to the local political public. We expect these shifts even though they seem small and old-fashioned. I will, you all remember well, so there was a party club so you had 30 seconds a month if you were a parliamentary party to send a political message about your work and your views to the entire Croatian public. Well, that was 93th and 94th when we were at war and now we've reached a great deal. We've been pushed far into the development of a public word, and at the end of such opportunities, we no longer have and that's what's true. So we really think it is what it is, and now I'm going to quote another MP who spoke today as Vujic said to me this is the topic which is the role of HTV in the development of Croatian democracy. For us as a Parliament, that should be a dominant question. From my point of view, from the point of view of the political group that I represent for me it is important that HTV as public television does not allow, does not open up enough space to regional topics and regional policy options which are all immediately to highlight Croatian options and which have been legitimate since 92 participating in the Croatian Parliament and doing their job correctly compared to how much knowledge they have. I ask you to in that sense our initiative to go and consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52482	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Galic called for the word. Here you go. With my recommendation that you refer especially to the parts of the individual clubs that were related to the financial part and, in particular, to the salaries. We are in the Croatian Parliament on a pillar of shame, so that we can compare these salaries and data as we stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52483	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me the opportunity to answer some of the questions that have been asked here. I can't answer all the questions. I can't answer all of them because neither time would allow nor have with me all that data and apparatus that I can satisfy a hundred or how many topics, questions, questions, or subtexts that are spoken here, but I'm going to start with those that I think are most important. First, the report itself, the 2004 Annual Business Report. A question was asked here, or doubted that the report was incorrect. It's even said hair, incomplete and false. What we were able to do by respecting the profession was to establish and implement financial, accounting and audits in 2004 that our business in 2004 was positive for a very strict expert analysis. It had a result, a final result less than it had in the previous four years but therefore there is quite clear and I believe in well-intentioned convincing justification. In 2004, we had one less programme on TV and this programme was not only abolished by HRT or HTV but it directly became a competitive programme. And if in 2003 the total marketing score on three Croatian TV programmes amounted to 400 million kuna per some average mathematics, we could have had a hundred million less marketing revenues in 2004. We've had 16 million of us, which means we've had a lot of work, and I'm going to say it with a lot of success, regardless of the doubts I see here on the first and second programs, we've kept a large majority of our advertisers. Accusing HRT and HTV leadership because they dropped marketing revenues doesn't seem to me quite the right thing to do. Why? Because Croatian leadership did not leave or deliberately plan its third programme but was privatised by the law adopted in this assembly. It's hard to expect, it's hard to expect that we can keep both sheep and money. We lost something but by effort, by the quality of the program that we concentrated on the first and second networks we managed to save a large part of our marketing... As far as the fee is concerned, we cannot be blamed again because only the tax or the tax revenue has grown. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He grew up by the logic that was once again established in this House. One and a half percent of the average annual salary in Croatia. And that's what's going on. It is up to us, of course, to ensure that the implementation of this legal obligation is as successful as possible, and I think that we have found some solutions in this matter with the help of the law offices and with the help of the Institute of Implementation and the costs we pay to the law offices, the court fees we give to the courts, we are done with every kuna we receive directly two. And not to say that there are indirect influences that let's say the institute of conduct or the possibility of prosecution reflects so that all the taxpayers take the fees more seriously their obligation. However, I note in certain discussions that one mixes with another and that the figures are read in such a way that they are unfavorable for this leadership. I'm not saying that's not possible either, but I'm saying it's not correct. This result is further revised. There may be doubts here, I have no reason for the ability, expertise and objectivity of an independent financial auditory house. But there's also a state audit. She did her part of the job and now she's preparing a report. I'm sure she'll make it in full expertise and in full independence as she's done so far. I know, I believe that most of them who knew them forgot that the state audit had corrected certain and certain reports, so that out of 6 and a half million positives they became 175 million negatives. And it's known in HRT. And it is not unknown to some of the MPs in this House. I'm sure it won't happen again because our goal wasn't to fake the report. Our goal was to give our owner and the public, our subscribers, through you a realistic objective representation of our condition. It's said "defying." We've lost 0.5% of what we need to give to the Council for Electronic Media. We responded so that from the first day of the formation of the Electronic Media Council we paid up to one June. And we've been paying for it all this time for a year and a half. What's controversial between us and the Council is when the Council is established? Did it start before it started working or when it started working? We claim to meet our obligations that the Council began to work the day it was established, not before. But I'd like your concern for the truth to be general and general. So to ask, for example, a question and to ask for an answer how many commercial televisions report their revenues and how much they pay on behalf of their 0.5 commitment, of 0.5% of the total income. You'd probably be surprised by a lot of people. I don't want to surprise you and surprise you with this information. Whoever wants it can get it. Then it was said that we had hidden 3% in the name of our commitment to the Pluralism Fund. And here we are as we carry out our duties strictly from the day this Fund was formed. It's formed when it's registered. It was formed when he received the distribution rule and we from that day forward are paying our 3% neatly on the total revenue from the fee. Before, were we supposed to pay? We don't. It is the case of the court, it is also the case of the Constitutional Court because we have submitted the provision to the Constitutional Court by claiming that this part of the law is unconstitutional. For example, the Slovenian Constitutional Court ruled in favour of Slovenian Radio-Television. The German Constitutional Court in Carlsrueur reached the same verdict because it was said that the tax could not be used but for the financing of public services. We'll see what the verdict of our Constitutional Court will be, but I wouldn't be hasty to declare that it's a evasion because it's all in the phase of a clean legal procedure in which we prove one thing and the opponents prove the other. Next, the overrun of the real minute. The total income of the illegal, illegal income of 10 million kuna has already been calculated. I have to say I don't know what it's like to calculate it or it's real. No such calculation exists unless we use arguments and data from opponents, commercial opponents and competitors of public television. Furthermore, if that were true, it would not be true because several slow jumps that could no longer happen because we transferred the program to the service would not give the right to either such a number or such a conclusion. But if all of this were by not being able to affect the 2004 business report, because everything that's supposed to be happening in 2005 is. We can add to make the conclusion harder, but from adding and soup sometimes becomes indigestionable. Here is the menu set...... If you only allow the last question [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wanted Mr. Rozic to answer. [[/Intruder: Now time's up, time's up. You'll be able to pick up again.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52484	We'll come to that. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It can't be many times because it's countless times. Yeah. The number has been set. Corrections to 6 incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52485	Thank you very much. I was just about to correct Mr Galic's incorrect claim that he said clearly not knowing our Rules of Procedure completely that there is no time here to answer all questions. He may, as a reporting officer, report after each debate, each individual representative, each individual club and has 20 minutes at his disposal. According to how many they've been reported 60 times 10 times 20 minutes you can speak. You have an immense amount of time to answer all the questions. Other, Adhesion
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52486	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52487	Second, the execution, correction of the incorrect statement of performance, therefore, of the salaries of the attorney's office for the purpose. So HTV has lawyers who can handle executive procedures. That's why I don't need a lawyer's office and there's enough of them to get a lawyer's office to do it. It's obviously about one non-pousing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52488	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52489	Mr. President. Well, look, Mr. Galic, it's not true that you achieved a weaker financial result in 2004 because your program dropped, you lost the 3rd program. I'm asking you how you could receive 200 new employees in that year...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52490	Don't ask, correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52491	...when the scope of the job went down. So that's the reason for this bad business result. So, the scope of the job decreased, they received 200 new employees and today they have the most employees in the history of Croatian broadcasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52492	Third correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52493	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Principal Galic. It is not true that you have the right, nor parliamentary representatives to compare the work of commercial television in the Republic of Croatia, nor to invoke them for programming principles, nor for the financial report. And we have the right to call and debate on Croatian broadcasting under the Law on Croatian Television and I appeal to the General Provisions of Articles 1 and 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52494	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52495	Mr. Galic said, quote: "We lost part of the marketing due to the privatisation of the third programme.". I believe that's incorrect. If that's true, then I'm asking a question, and I'm explaining the correcting of an incorrect quote. Why is 3 thousand 688 people working on Croatian television, why have there been as many fees, as new people have been admitted in the last four years, how many have retired and how many have been acquired an internship? One more thing, according to Article 16 of our Rules of Procedure, please answer us what the author's salary is for last night's show? How many departments and what price were these departments bought? Then, I'd like to ask you nicely what the ratings of that show...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52496	It's not a correction. This second part, Agent Lonchar, this second part is not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Under the second firm... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52497	And how many people work on that show.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52498	Dear Representative Frano Piploić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52499	Mr. Galic was just talking about the so-called. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. I think there's a mistake, that's the wrong attitude. Namely, the law...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52500	You cannot correct the wrong attitude. Under...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52501	... Mr. President, quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52502	Tell me what's the incorrect quote. Well, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52503	It is incorrect because the law also obliges local media to finance part of their public service, that 20% precisely from funds like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52504	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52505	Thank you very much. A series of incorrect allegations made by Mr. Director for a short period of time... I ask that my bell be taken away from my time. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] Therefore, it is not true that the obligation of the Croatian Broadcasting Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electricity media has been going on since the foundation of the Fund, but since the law was passed, Mr Galic. The laws in this country seem to be worth everything but you. So you incorrectly stated that. You should have put that money in stock in 2003 and paid for it in 2004. It is also incorrect that they were not obliged to pay 0.5% for the work of the Telecommunications Council because this was founded by a law that entered into force on 30 September 2003. So a year before this report. And you were also obliged to pay it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52506	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52507	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Director, President of the Council, gentlemen editors, colleagues and colleagues. To talk about the HTV report, in fact, even speaking in general about HTV means actually to accept or engage in a case that has been going on for years and in which prosecutors are, and I would say sometimes defenders argue with extreme intensity. The passionate tone of this debate is certainly the prosecution's fault. And until the views on the programme orientation and the public TV houses agree, they are contrary, they are certainly not even common methods to be used to fight against their view of the world on HTV. Prosecutors thus get proof that there is still something wrong with it and that those who attack them to interfere with the editorial policy of Croatian television are doing exactly that because they belong to their system of values, not because they are generally in favour of the political independence of the institution. And to appear therefore, even if there is, in defense of Croatian television independence, right at the lastcent time, and perhaps right now, it means knowingly to carry out the risk. This is knowingly one risky job in this emerging situation when it is in the Parliament, and also through the parliamentary committees, not to mention in certain media, fighting on Croatian TV from their own, and especially in recent times and from heavy weapons. I think that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52508	Please, the representative is speaking. I'm obliged to make a smooth speech possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52509	All together, I think we'd all be more interested in a little bit more of educational content here on television. That's something we may all agree on in principle, but less is, a little is being discussed. Equally, one bad voice culture in our media, which has not bypassed Croatian television. However, just as these issues are becoming marginal, and they are important, especially for a public television such as Croatian television, so the struggle for some kind of own truth, the struggle for national interests in some way surely hides that HTV is the object of someone's maybe open, or first dark, and then increasingly open political desires. And it is certain, no doubt from the debate, that it is obvious that some want to impose themselves as the main souls of Croatian television. And that's something to worry about. This is something some in the public, especially in the professional public called "the beginning has begun". Recent recent recent recent recent events, not to mention events over the past two years have also sparked the attention of the Croatian Journalist Society so that it had to react, quote: "It is precisely about an event where the president, speaking on behalf of the Croatian Journalist Society, says he believes it is a matter of giving in to increasingly intense pressures on public television independence.". Even though we all thought and all of us were hoping, and everybody here's the public and we're pushing for that they're past and they should definitely go through those political times, those times when they won't disqualify themselves, and they're even less distant by those who think otherwise, so that those times are definitely behind us. Especially at a very sensitive moment in which Croatia is still present, so when it begins, when the negotiations on membership in the European Union are open. So, that attacks on journalistic freedoms, and even those who are not so evident as to certainly mean that they also mark and that they can be characterized as an attack on democracy. I have to point out a few cases that are known to the public, which are certainly familiar to all of us, that these several cases have only recently caused special attention, special attention from the OSCE, which point out even in writing that these cases are at risk of restricting journalistic freedoms on television and certain pressures, and so the OSCE itself says, interrogatingly, says recent cases. There is no need to forget the case that the Government is 30.9.2005, so this year, from the list of public authorities, of which the right to access information law is based, citizens have the right to request information from state institutions from the deleted Croatian broadcasting. There's no question about why. So, the disappearance of Croatian broadcasting as a public institution from the list of those, and that is precisely the government's regulation that must give citizens the requested information, the government obviously does not want these data to become public and in this way we have a selective approach and in some way, in fact a direct disabling of the Law on Access to Public Information which Transparency International and Professor Josip Kregar spoke about in public. It seems to me that this whole debate should have passed in that sense, and there is still time to give this media house a chance to grow to a maximum extent to public television, which, with such a wide, high scope... the interests of citizens, not individual political parties. [[You don't understand.]] It certainly is neither simple, nor a short-term job, but it is least helpful to attack it, to attack that it does not protect Croatian national interests, because let's be clear, let's be clear, we all know from history, that in times of certain recession or announcements of some crisis time that general interests have always gained advantage over individual rights and individual interests and therefore in such a way or yet offering the truth from their own policy is also one of the wrong ways, because we will also agree together that, unfortunately, they are all often true, that, unfortunately, politics and truthfulness often do not live under the same roof. And that's why, and on behalf of that, I think we should accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52510	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52511	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow representatives. So normally everyone smart will agree that Croatian TV, Croatian TV must be independent, that it must be professional, that it must be professional. It's also her legal commitment, and that's why we're talking today. So it's about these parts, independence, expertise and professionalism. The Croatian radio has gone far beyond that part of Croatian television as well as HINA, such as some local radio stations and everything else. But look what's going on. Take a step forward, take a step forward and then go back two steps back last night. Two steps back, because it is an abuse of independence, and there is no expertise, there is no professionalism and that is what worries me, which concerns Croatian defenders, which concerns the Croatian regiment who pays that subscription and we are talking about it today. This is what must not be allowed, all of this we support both independence and expertise and professionalism, but this cannot be allowed. This is neither independent nor professional. That's tenentious. Well, that's the easiest way to say it, and we've got to stop it. We must, on behalf of the Croatian people, who we represent here and we must, for the sake of the future of this Television and this leadership, if we are to do what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52512	Nenad Stazic, a respected representative. Second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52513	Dear colleague Antičević Marinovic, the government did not self-initiately delete HRT from the list of bodies with public authority within the meaning of the Access to the Right of Information Act, to the availability of information. She did so at the request of the house leadership, and the request came after one of the Council members, Suzana Jasic, sought information on how much HDZ spent on the presidential campaign. Since it was not intended to be given to Susani Jasic, so that it was not intended to be published in public at all, it was then the government or government's leadership that suggested that the HRT be deleted from the list of bodies with public authority and the government had satisfied it. But it just proves to you that it's not worth being unprincipled, that it's not worth going down the government's hair, down the HDZ's hair, that it's not worth taking a step forward to satisfy HDZ because the moment they decide to shoot you, it won't be worth anything at all. It won't be worth anything. And in life, it's much more cost-effective to be principled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52514	President of the HRT Program Council, Zdenko Leviaq. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52515	I would say to all clubs, political clubs, party purposes, and I will answer the questions addressed to the Programme Council. As far as Mr Furio Radin is concerned, he has asked a question on the parliamentary committee about how the issue is formed, the journalist is forming a question and how a journalist can actually influence the formation of an opinion. After that meeting, I think five days or seven, later held a council, we put it on the council and we actually asked the programme management to indicate in the future when it came to the plea and what number it had affected, which number of participants was on the application so that it could be correctly transmitted to the public. So we reacted right away. I must say that this debate sends a lot of messages to the council in terms of how we should or should not have worked. I would like to remind parliamentary representatives that while this law is in force, while this council is as it is in office, respect the law and the legal provisions and only on this basis will it work because everything else and otherwise to behave would be beyond what is expected of us in the council. The DC representative made an observation on the programming scheme, so it can never be known when the show, when it will be welcomed or not be welcomed, this is what we asked the programme management to stabilise through the programming scheme as you saw in the programme report or the times with which viewers are expected. I must admit that Mr. Representative, Mr. Pupovac was talking about reality shows, these are our remarks too. I must warn you that we are without distinction in this debate today, which we are talking about, a month ago, scheduled a council that was scheduled the day before Thursday at 10:00 p.m., where exactly these points are on the agenda, among other things we have this initiative of journalists who came here, which was read, and I received it as president of the council on Friday, it has been distributed to all our members and has been placed on the agenda point for Thursday. So, in the sense that the Council, how much, in the first place, intervenes on those issues or calls when it addresses them, and intervenes on emissions in the sense that it sees them. So these shows that are being talked about here will certainly be on the Council, on the Programme Council. They will be discussed and their attitudes taken. The Council cannot say that something must not be done, but it can say that something is not well done or that it has been done against the law. The public of Croatian broadcasting by law defends itself, according to the law, through the Council of Croatian Radio Television. Well, 11 of us aren't professionals there, you have to know that. The Council foresaw one function and gave it tasks. We 11 can't sit behind television and follow a regular, active program, and then every program is manifested. There is now an initiative on the Council that the Council will propose that the expert body be formed to monitor actively all the programmes and then be shown and discussed. Unlike the Media Council, which has the status of employees in the ministry, that is, the government whose task is to monitor that part, this is not the case with us in our Council. And it cannot be expected that the Council, members of the Council, react to every show. They react anyway, in the first place, to the shows they watch, and then afterwards to the shows when they get complaints, applications, complaints, etc. Because the Council is regularly given, and I have made these comments regularly, objections and all these objections or objections go to the members of the Council and this is being debated. Public dialogue standard. These are the things that the Council regularly discusses. It warns the present members of the programme leadership here that more professionalism is required. We also made some shows that I didn't bring here realising, criticizing and asking for an apology from, criticizing unprofessionalism. I'll tell you one example,... The Plaško case when it was, when we asked the editor-in-chief's apology to apologize, so we intervened multiple times in that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then when we actually had material, or when we had a concrete example of whether or not someone liked the program, it's a very broad, broad term. I think the programme should continue to work and take care of the programme leadership, and the Council as a council should monitor and monitor it. We can't all build a program. There are things that aren't good, there are things that we're going to get a report on the day after tomorrow, and here the most discussed, conflict of interest, shows that have been done in cooperation or in contact, etc. So that's what we're going to do, and I'm asking you, if you will, there's no reason for the Council to have its minutes, its discussions, if you want phonograms. The council doesn't hide anything from the MPs. There's no reason. If you want phonograms, we'll orderly deliver them to the members of the Parliament. But I also expect the members of the Parliament that when they notice that something is wrong, why, either as a citizen or as a parliamentary representative, they do not send a letter to the Council and that the Council reacts. I mean, it's the most normal collaboration between you guys who've chosen us and us who sort of oversee the programming scheme. Here, I'd just like that. When there's an individual debate, I'll answer as it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52516	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52517	Dear Mr. President, we heard from Mr. Leftk next. As long as this law exists, we will do so. That's true, but it's not working exactly. It's incorrect to act like that, and now I'm going to say why. From a recent memory that the radiotelevision took on the god-awful protection of Mr. Predrag Martevic, falsely showing him that he was being followed by danger. And by attacking writers Pesod and Judge Lukic, that's true, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52518	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52519	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is an incorrect quote from Mr. Leviaq, where he claimed that while this law was going to work on it and that it would not be different because it did not work on it or work on it. Because the law strictly states that radiotelevision is permanent, true, comprehensive, impartial, timely informs the public of facts of public interest, impartial processing of political, economic, social and other issues, making it possible to evenly confront the views of different sources while checking the sources and content of information prior to publication in accordance with recognised standards of independent journalism. That's what the law tells you, and you don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52520	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52521	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, a debate on a public institution, Croatia's radiotelevision Zagreb is causing a lot of attention for a number of reasons. The first is undoubtedly the role of Croatian broadcasting as a national house that should promote the interests of all its inhabitants in the information, education, cultural, sports and entertainment programmes. Secondly, the facility has a respectable number of employees, 3 thousand 667 according to the 2004 data. Third, incomes and expenditures are higher than a billion and 300 million kuna. And fourth, the enormous power of Croatian broadcasting as the most present media in every household where manipulation is possible can have immense consequences, trampling out ruthlessly human, party and religious rights. We can see from the financial report that out of one billion and 376 million kuna incomes as much as 820 million or almost 2/3 of the income is from a RTV subscription, and 447 million from marketing. The legal definition of fees of 1.5% of the average net salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia ensures a steady and secure increase in income. We see from the data that backlogs of unpaid fees are charged, resulting from calls and irresponsible politicians that fees are not paid out of the protest. At large billing costs are not charged much, and the success of forced collection must be reduced and many paid. By almost 9%, the income from marketing is lower than in 2003, most likely to have been over-exposed to the accounts of competing houses. In expenditures, as many as 32% are staff, 440 million kuna, and it is completely incomprehensible how the number of employees grows, and television has one less program. At the end of 2002, three thousand 159 were employed and at the end of 2004. Three thousand six hundred and sixty-six. So more than 500 new employees. In 2004, 121 employees left, and as many as 200 new employees arrived. It is clear that new technology is looking for new personnel, but current employees should also be educated more regularly. The cost of professional training has been reduced compared to 2003 by 100 thousand kuna, and today we have heard that it is not really clear to the employees where this money went. Despite this data for the work contracts, nearly 15 million kunas have been spent, and in particular are fascinated by the authorial contracts of as many as 80 million kunas. Employees point to overpriced external productions that use the technical conditions of Croatian broadcasting, as well as laymen see that nepotism flourish. It would be interesting to analyse donations and sponsorships that amounted to a million and 600 thousand kuna in 2003, and in 2004, as much as 7 million and 400 thousand kuna. Quite a convenient topic for investigative journalism which otherwise Croatian radiotelevision abounds. It is interesting that Croatian broadcasters participated in the media link against parliamentary representatives due to the cost of transport to work and work, and in the home the cost of transport to work and work was increased by one year from 11 million and 968 thousand to 13 million and 85 thousand, so by a million and 100 thousand kuna more with large incomes. In the table of other operating costs, attention gathers an increase in unambiguous services by 8 and a half million kuna, and only a secret item other costs for nearly 20 million kuna. Interestingly, the chief director of HRT's explanation is that the reason for the increase in salaries of 25% is to ensure the best staff with special contracts. So why, with the best security personnel on the program, so many external productions? Just a few large and well-paid Croatian radiotelevision stars are responsible for the criminalisation of the Homeland War for some, even the Hague prosecutors are not up to it. It's particularly dangerous for a young generation born in the '90s. I believe that salaries are also increased by excellent masters of radio and TV specialized shows due to the ratings and listening to Croatian radiotelevision. Optimism is being young radio journalists, the leaders of a contact programme that announces a better quality HRT's future. I am not surprised that the Programme Council of Croatian RadioTelevision has paid more attention to Croatian television, while the radio program has been working with its diversity and a large number of quality emissions, with great competition from numerous radio stations, bounces with quality, it seems to me that Croatia-radiotelevision only partially fulfils its obligations. To quote a famous columnist on a daily list: "Croatian television is not wasteful, it saves on culture. Perhaps the reduced profits will be even lower anyway, if better quality emissions appear in more appropriate terms, because the competition in the number of Mexican soap operas with self-financed TV houses is breaking down anyway, Croatia's reputation of television. Between profits and educational and cultural obligations of Croatian television, profits are less important. Instead of obtaining Croatian radiotelevision for 2004, it should show that, in accordance with the Law on Croatian Radiotelevision, the article 54 paid to the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of the media 3% of the funds in the name of the fee. It's not what she didn't pay, it's the problem of really missing such houses, it's small radio stations, small sheets, I think it should be there. The same obligation was avoided in 2003. This data reduces the credibility of the report on the audit carried out and the annual report on Croatian Radiotelevision for 2004. I believe that today's debate on our opinions and proposals will also contribute to how the Council of Croatian Radiotelevision tells further the development of software content in the interests of the overall public and the achievement of the tasks that Croatian Radiotelevision has as a public medium.", the end of the quote. So to speak, and so inconclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52522	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52523	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Markovanovic said new technology requires new personnel. It's only partly true, fortunately existing frames have the ability to perfect and graduate for a new technological... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52524	Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52525	A colleague Markovanovic speaking of freedoms in Croatia-radiotelevision, I would extend it to the entire Croatian space, freedom never enough, just asking the question of what is the limit of that freedom, is that freedom jeopardizing other people's freedom? What I've been through on Croatian-radiotelevision since '96. I wouldn't wish on anyone until 2000, but it didn't happen that someone fixed the score for me in a sentence, let alone the word, but look what we have today. I, a colleague of Markovanovic, was in the most brutal way offended, humiliated by Croatian TV journalists and the editor-in-chief in the information programme of Croatian-radiotelevision, Mr. Rončević, when he said that I was lying, he and his brother said that I voted, we watched Mr. Rončević and I on Croatian TV, we watched on 5 occasions, and I didn't even draw a finger near the voting button, he said he would publish the correction, he didn't publish it. For the second time, Goebbels would be ashamed that a reporter from the Croatian Parliament when we talked about the anti-fascism declarations reported from here, and then I went to Mr Roncevic and prayed for it to be published, saw that these were lies and structures that would be ashamed of Goebbels himself, never happened to Mr. President of the Programme Council. Now ask the editor of the information program why he didn't do it, why such damage was done to me, and we suffered from it both me and my family, even in a history class in high school where my daughter went along with Perina kept the watch that there was a fascist in Parliament defending fascism, and I just voted for another declaration that was my parliamentary right. So, I am not for the persecution of these nadal journalists on Croatian television, but for maximum freedom, but also for maximum responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52526	Thank you very much. Comrade Lonchar, please just watch one expression. You refer here to Pupovac, don't use the expressions of the brothers, and so on, that's all there is to it. ... Yeah, but that's what the key and that vote is about. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know, but with those supplements, we take care of each other's integrity regardless of the disagreement. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I did. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, thanks for the compliments on each other. Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52527	Well, here I was just going to tell my colleague, Lonchar, that the Croatian radiotelevision of certain customs is not resolved. Let's remember, a few days ago, after a black chronicle from around the world as it's used to be in the news, there were names of several MPs so that people with wonders watched why they weren't brought here or somewhere in the prison or at least in The Hague, if anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52528	HRT Chief Director Mirko Galic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52529	Mr. President. If the distinguished representative Markovanovic were a journalist of one possible or virtual television, and I was a member of a virtual parliament, then after this discussion he had today, I would have told him much more harsh criticism than he told us. Speaking of the cost of donations, donations and sponsorship, he asked why the cost of donations, donations and sponsorship rose to nearly 7 and a half million from 2003. There is a paragraph below that he skipped, and the explanation is that those funds amounting to almost 2 million are paid into this pluralism-enhancing fund, that 4 million and 600,000 funds have been paid in favour of the Council for Electronic Media, and that only 800 thousand are one half of the 2003 funds paid in favour of and on behalf of the costs, donations and sponsorships that he has attributed to us here. I ask him that when he takes the role of reporter to be objective as much as he asks for objectivity and thoroughness from Croatian radiotelevision journalists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52530	Mr. Director, communication between MPs and those who are on the other side should be slightly different, you need to communicate with the MPs a little more carefully. The MP has the right to criticise, has the right to question, has the right to controversy and you need to react differently. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Director, President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues! I've prepared this debate in advance, but I won't keep it. I'll speak differently than I thought before. I wanted to be critical, maybe not as critical as my colleague, Rosic, but not so much less. I wanted to ask questions about salaries and special contracts on these salaries, about the revenues of editors, journalists in the Croatian Radio-Television programme. I wanted to ask for fees, I wanted to ask for external production, for public tenders in which this external production should be obtained or not obtained, but I'm hardly going to be able to talk about it because in fact, from this debate how it went I have to talk about something else. This is where Mr. Galicu is taking his head off figuratively today. That's quite clear. They've come to you and you're hardly going to defend yourselves. There's an action plan in place that you're the target. Well, judging by how effective the action plans are and how successful it won't go well. When the report came to the boards, I warned about it. I warned about what's going on with you and the Croatian radio and that was before "Latinica" yesterday. And this show yesterday seems to be a good reason for some to complete the task of the action plan. Now I wonder what led you to such a position here in the Croatian Parliament today. I'm afraid they're your associates. You chose them, you proposed them to the council, the Council of HRT believed you were real people and approved them for your associates. How did they work? They've made programming mistakes, numerous programming mistakes, many of which guilt will fall on you, and it's already falling. I think they'll get away with it, you don't. Why am I saying this is a human question? You're the Director-General, Director-General of Radio and Television. Take a look at the situation on Croatian Radio. No privatization of shows, no programming failures, at least not rough ones, no financial dues. Here they all praised you, praised Croatian radio because they listen to it and because they appreciate the program. And that's why I think this is a question, first of all, of the staff, of the choice of your associates. They failed to perform their executive functions, their editorial functions, and you tolerated them. So you chose the wrong people on Croatian television, you taught them powerful and wealthy. So are the press. The stars that eventually compromised, at least some of them, and the public television institution and you personally. Besides, you resented Mr. Galic. They asked you to place Dujmovic in the editorial post. You said no. You were defiant in that. Now they've come to charge that defiance of yours. They've come for their own. They're not powerless, and they're not ineffective to get back at you. They tried to blackmail you financially. The tax administration has sent you a solution to pay VAT in tax although it is quite clear from the law that it has no right to do so. You complained to the second-degree authority and that's the Ministry of Finance. It's been a year, over the year, years and a half, the Ministry of Finance has made no solution to this day. Why? So they can keep you in their hands. So that I can tell you at any moment, so look, we're going to activate it, so you're going to lose your money, Mr. Head, so you're going to knock on the government door to deliver the money so you can work. So they wanted to slap you in the pocket first, and today they're banging you on the cheek. And they're banging you on the cheek because, Mr. Galic, you didn't say loudly in time that he wanted to slap you in the pocket, that in time you didn't get up loud enough against trying to enslave HRT, politically to give birth. When I warned about it then it was only said let Stazic not defend us because when Stazic defends us then someone will think that HRT is connected to the SDP. It's not. He defended the SDP always and in principle the right of public television to be a public service, to be financially independent, to be software independent. I'd have a thousand grudges here to say on certain shows. I'm not gonna say one because I'm defending the editor's right to edit the show. Emissions shall not be regulated either in the Government or in the Assembly, they must be edited on HRT but must be regulated responsibly. The badges have to be arranged, they have to be arranged impartially. There must not be so many and so great failures as they have occurred and there is no adequate reaction to them. Now it's collapsing here, that's obvious. Why? Two reasons possible. Maybe to help the competition. Maybe to crash the concept of public television with you together. If that happens, then another of the values that have been building up hard and long will disappear. But it's a little bit of your own fault. Why? In this country, it is an act of destruction of all values. In particular, the values of the system institutions. Wherever you can try to degrade that system. System institutions. This was also done on Croatian Radio TV. Well, when all the values are down, then it's your turn. And when that value of public television breaks down, then the next one will be easier prey. Then there will be no more Croatian radio-television as a public service to take such protection, to protect the values that television must protect. It's too much of this public business to say. The programs that HRT ignored will be in the cultural program. Mr. Selem warned you. A year ago on the latest report, he warned, almost asking for a specialized theatre show to be launched, to record theatre plays, to open one co-operation with theatres. And what was done in a year? Nothing. Zero. Zero. Why was the second show canceled, the second diary on the first program? So whoever doesn't look at this main journal at half past eight, there's no way of seeing an information show anymore except for another program, but it's going into a messy time and it's gotta... There are many other public services that have disappeared from HRT unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52532	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Jagoda Majska-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52533	Well, here's what I'd like to say before I fix my compliment from my fellow Stazic, because 90% of his exposure to certain remarks is okay with me. But it's incorrect for anyone in this assembly to get their heads off anyone on this side. Or he has such an intention, and I don't know where you got the right to, for example, accuse me under allegations that I want to take someone's head off. No, I don't. I never wanted to, and I never will. However, we have raised several relevant questions here that we have not received answers and I will repeat them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52534	No questions respected MPs, you have a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52535	That's exactly what I'm Who's responsible for last night's Latin? I'm asking a question again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52536	Not that, ma'am. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Second correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52537	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Agents' guilty allegations that there are some action plans aimed at HTV. That's incorrect. The action plan exists on HTV and this action plan of editors that eliminated the Homeland War from their programme and did not give the defenders the minute they had pets.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52538	Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic. Third Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52539	I am correcting the incorrect quote of Mr. Stazic, who said, quote: "That today Mr. Galic is taking his head off here." That's not true. We are here today warning of an inadmissible level of responsibility and professionality of the programme. This right can't be challenged by anyone, especially by qualifications and innuendo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52540	Fourth, distinguished representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52541	Mr. Stazic said, quote, "Mr. Galic's head is being taken off figuratively today." It's a finished quote. That's not true. You and your party and the most generous law in the world today, you're taking his head off because no one in the world has this kind of law. Secondly, some are welcome to take advantage of last night's show with this action plan. It would be a good idea for you who call yourself a Social Democrats if you'd come forward like all of us about last night's show. And the third said, when you were talking about Galic's people, you said it would cost him his head. Of course again thanks to this law. And you know what your press trip was like. During communism, you came to be a reader of other people's texts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52542	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pajo Sredčević. [[Thank you very much.]] Here you go. They're singing "The Merchants." [[There's no such thing. What did you say?]] It sounded like Payo. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52543	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Stazic's wrong quote when he said that last night's show was actually some kind of action plan. I have to decedify myself here because on behalf of the HSP Club, I just asked the profession to tell its story about it and whether it was professionally done or not? I'm absolutely building up because when I hear the word action plan, I get chilly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52544	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52545	Yes, I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Stazic when he said, "They tried to blackmail you" quote "so the tax administration sent you a tax ruling". So the tax administration assesses, assesses, and does not judge whether anyone respects Croatian laws, so that is why Croatian television must respect them as well. Brings solutions that are appropriate to the findings. Therefore, it was not blackmail, it was legal treatment of existing regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52546	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52547	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd make it right, Mr. Stazic, Mr. Stazic. He said it was a personnel issue, that it was an action plan and that Mr Galic's head was removed. He said it all in one breath, and I don't think it's in the spirit of debate in the Parliament and that no one is taking Mr. Galic's head off. Unless Mr. Stazic knows Mr. Galic is going somewhere. Well, that's how they want to translate it into, like, a story like that. And it might be good if Mr. Galic told us why... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52548	It wouldn't be good, because the correction to the incorrect assumption is. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52549	... In his almost memorial speech, Director Galic compared today's debate with the action plan, an action plan for his shift. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] That's not true. It is an open debate on Croatian TV because a respected colleague is obviously the only one who does not fit the debate between you and your party colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52550	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52551	Thank you very much. I would correct my fellow Stazic's allegations when he said there was a campaign that Croatia's television is politically enslaved. This is simply not true because Croatian television is already trapped by the left political option and should be given public and national maximum responsibility to most of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52552	Dear Representative Maria Byte, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52553	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic said, I will repeat, because many colleagues also said the incorrect assumption that an action plan is in place here in the Croatian Parliament and that Mr. Galic is being taken off his head. That's incorrect. We have before us a report on the work of the Programme Council and an annual report on the work of HRT which is our duty and obligations, and through yesterday's Latina an action plan has been implemented against the first Croatian president of Dr Tudjman and the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52554	And a respected representative, Vice President Darko Milinovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation. ... The replica? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How did I see the tile? Replica esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52555	I rephrase my fellow Stazic when he said, "There goes the head." It is a very, very dangerous finding because this finding actually disqualifies the apriors of every physical discourse. And that's really how we get into one very situation or something. I think that in a situation like this, or it can't work. I think we should say here when they already mention yesterday's show that between the world of one... There is another very big world, and the world also has the right to exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And really win Croatia over this policy or I win you or nobody else it's very dangerous. I agree with you when you said that the editors are being set up, their work valorizes inside the media house. But I would now pray if you remember, since you were sitting here the same way in the last assembly where that head fell, for example. Jose Kapovic and who defended Joza Kapovic. As I recall, the honorable exception of fellow Caine and I is no one else. And we also said that we disagreed with what Jozo Kapovic did but that really the head should fall in Parliament or government or somewhere else is extremely undemocratic and dangerous. And unfortunately, the heads were falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52556	This isn't where the heads are going to fall. The last Croatian heads fell in the Belgrade Assembly in '28. the years when Stephen's work and comrades were killed. That's figurative. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52557	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kramarić, for giving me the opportunity to respond by lifting up a tile with a replica, which is a beautiful custom that as we can see, not everyone in this House tends. Probably out of fear of being answered. When I was talking...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52558	Please exhale, exhale, please, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52559	When I was talking about getting the principal's head off here, I said figuratively. Therefore, it may not have been necessary to explain this to everyone other than those who think of taking off the heads of Zrinski and Frankopan. That's not true, I didn't mean literally taking my head off. However, the tone of the debate since the first moment of the day points to this, as well as a proposal from the HDZ Club that this report is not even taken into account, and the cause of yesterday's show points out that it is going to destroy the leadership of the house, as well as the whole concept of Croatian broadcasting as a public institution, as public television. If it succeeds, and it seems to me that it is trying to do so then we will lose a valuable institution that has worked hard and long to build. I'm warning you, and it may not matter one of these or that kind of personnel solution, but it's important to keep the institutions. I'm afraid that here with the staff or the personnel solution will be torn down and the entire institution will simply not be able to implement this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52560	Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52561	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I can agree with many of Mr. Stazic's claims. It is certain that last night's Latina directed the second course of today's debate here. That's for sure. But last night's Latina, if the final debate regarding the appointment of the Programme Council came as ordered. It's true that she came as ordered, and it's exactly what you said the chief director was carrying that guilt because he chose his associates and therefore, if his associates were doing wrong, he was carrying that part of the responsibility. But you can't tell us for sure that we're the real ones we're going to adhere to some action plan. We are against all the action plans this government has given, and even if this is a matter of action, we will again be against it, the action plan. We were against the action plan for General Gotovina and against all these action plans we are certainly against. But, I'm saying, it's a shame that those responsible on TV missed and allowed last night's Latina to be released because of the fact that Latina was recorded earlier. Because of the fact that it was recorded earlier and it could have happened. I think the principal said, or someone said, that some things were thrown out. So what was the basic content if some were thrown out? That surprises me now. What was the basic content if some things were thrown out? Then what was that? Therefore, do not put us into action plans and take the measures at your disposal because this is really going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52562	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52563	I agree with you in many ways in this, in many ways and I'm very glad you just said this. And very soon when we vote on this report, we'll see if it's some kind of action plan or not. Every criticism addressed to Croatian broadcasting not only is welcome, but according to how Croatian broadcasting works it is necessary, it is necessary. But it doesn't accept the report of the Programme Council, which, let's say, rightly leads to this program council being asked to resign, so we don't have a Programme Council. Unaccepting the report, not even taking it into account, the principal director, leads to the collapse of the principal director. And you heard here that Mr. Cosic even refused the SDP club right, went to correct the wrong quote when Mr. Vujic said the SDP club would accept this, so Mr. Cosic says no one will accept this. Even the SDP club refuses the right to accept or not accept a report. We will see, so much at all about the concept of democracy in this House in some heads, but very soon we will see in the report whether all clubs and each representative will individually be at the level of responsibility and distinguish the necessary criticism from attempts to bring down the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52564	And a replica, the respected vice president of House Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52565	Your Honor, Mr. President. I truly understood your words when you said that certain advisers, or associates of Mr. Galic, are working on his head today. I really understood what you meant by that. But I didn't understand when you said and when you were talking about how in some way Mr. Galic didn't accept your advice because they would come from you, from Stazic and then it could be interpreted as the influence of the SDP on Croatian broadcasting. Well, according to that, I'm going to reproduce one journal a month and a half ago, and that went after the announcemental spike about like this. "Good evening.", almost triumphant, "Good evening, respected viewers. According to polls conducted by HRT, Puls SDP is once again the most popular party. He crossed the Croatian Democratic Community. If today's SDP election had so many, HDZ so many, HSP so many votes.", the contribution lasted about 4 minutes, the first 4 minutes of the journal. A lot of people called and said if it was breaking news. I've said it deeply believing in the impartiality of HRT. It took place 15 days after certain day-to-day political events, unfortunately some HDZ is again the most popular party and HDZ president and prime minister again the most popular politician. Then, in 21 minutes, the same editor gives information that lasted exactly 26 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52566	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52567	Indeed, Mr. Milinovic, I did not give advice to Mr. Galic, nor to anyone else, nor do I think it is necessary. And even if I did, I doubt they'd listen to me. But it really wasn't. You see, in this publication of a public change research. I guess the editors think it's normal that HDZ is the first party and as a surprise news that deserves attention when the SDP reaches HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52568	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. There's no hurry. It's very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52569	Here it came to pass that I was behind my fellow Stazic then I will continue to say the same thing for my mental health and peace of mind that yesterday I had to be at another job and I didn't watch "Latinica" so what I heard from my colleagues who watched is still too much, and it's scary and I'll say that it was probably a drop that had already spilled a full glass, and that glass has been filling up since the last report for 2003 when we also talked on committees about the same things or similar, and where we expected that a good part of what we thought was not our personal position when we criticised certain programming or financial failures so rather than that the message of those who sent us to the Croatian Parliament would defend us was theirs, i.e. Public interests. So this short-term discussion of the different areas of this report, we actually have three and the Programme Report and the Financial and Audit Report, so it's going to be more or less superficial because I can't get there in a short time to touch everything, but then I'm going to say what's holding me back the most. So, as for these non-disclosures or excuses today, or to say "fleeing from responsibility", I can't accept them because what I've been able to see a little bit like all of you through the laws that we've passed here in the Parliament, or colleagues before us and what it says in the Rules of Procedure and on the site of the HRT that I've been looking forward to today, it turns out, of course, that TV is run by the Programme Council, the Directorate and the Director General. The Programme Council therefore appoints and appoints the director of HTV also director of the programme and editor-in-chief of the information programme. Thus, the body he has appointed is likely to follow their work, and it can influence them to then praise or punish them according to the results they have achieved. On the basis of everything we heard today, I do not see that other results are achieved except those that are likely to be, and I will repeat some of the debate from the last time, in the service of someone and something that is not the majority of the Croatian population who pay for TV, because if 60% of the income is alimated from the pockets of those who watch then probably they have not paid for the basic values in which they are born, raised and live, so where they are touched in their basic worldview settings, even though I said last year, so I was quoted in all newspapers as being original and not glad to think that I am in Palestine when I turn on Croatian television, this year I will say that we have moved much closer to the point so now I feel that I am in Belgrade, but not in official Belgrade of official official policy that we are working with and developing good relations than in Belgrade, those great Serbian policies that have been suppressing Croatia since 918, and that I can not accept the consequences of the state policy. Therefore, I will repeat what I said last time, I do not expect Croatian television to be hungry and clapping to the Croatian government, government, parliament and all those who form the establishment of the Croatian state but I expect it to be at least neutral, not under any force and at the cost of the enemy to that same government and to its people... to be quasi modern and liberal. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll say it disgusts me that I don't think there's even a part of the left option, in my opinion it's anarcholiberalism that essentially exceeds the general and in Latin and some others, I'm going to talk about "Sunday at 2" we've had the same excesses, things that we haven't as a citizen and intellectuals at all expected. I think it's time to talk about it very clearly and publicly. So the Director-General has the right to suggest these irregularities especially if he has the support of all the public, and in this case he has and I don't see any reason why we would go further for some reason so that we wouldn't be declared to be violent people who want to change the programme. I don't want to change it because I don't know how to do it, but I know what I'd like to see when I pay for it. I would therefore like to see what modern television shows publicly in Europe. In the meantime, the appearance of three TVs in private does not mean that the Croatian television that remains public, financed by the population, can behave as private, but it does. So she went to mimic her competition not in the good but in the bad one, so in the bad soap opera, in some kind of series, in increasing the foreign program, and that's not good. So if we pay for our television, then I expect that I have more education programs, that I have more cultural content because the first thing that happens in a country, so when television is bought by privates or some multinational company is that it's national, that this cultural content is being removed from the program because I'm not going to talk about the consequences of globalisation and everything else, and I think that we should hang on to it as representatives, that this percentage that is now some 15-16% if I see it right now, let me be forgiven if I'm a percentage of the fulala, so it refers to these cultural content that develops identity and that educates young generations. And let me say, therefore, that as chairman of the Sub-Committee for Croatian Minorities, I also participated in the work of this committee, I say a few words about the emissions of national minorities in Croatia, but also of the Croatian minority in Europe. I am very pleased and, of course, that I welcome and so am I, so that Prizma has moved from the second programme to the first because the first programme of course is the result that she is the most watched television in the region, she sees in other countries, but I am not glad that the two shows that have dealt with our emigrants, or the Croatian minorities who have called themselves "The Roots and the Voice of the Homeland" have merged into one single one, so instead of two, we have stayed on one show and so she has remained on another programme, and we know well that the second programme is not seen exactly in those areas where our minorities live, and that is the whole of Gradisce, a good part of Hungary, Kotor and in the good part of Vojvodina. So these people can't see the contributions recorded about themselves, and that's what would basically help them develop their position in countries where they are and identity in the European Community. If I may say a little bit about financial indicators now, then I would be very interested in the answer that we are not going to get, because it will be said that the salaries are secret, that they can't be found out, even though they're not, so if someone is working in a public institution and if they're credited from a budget, they're both public and public and I don't see that the salaries of people who work on TV have been more secret than the salaries of us specifically, but I would be interested in therefore that there are some different levels of these people, so we have those who are on a collective contract, so those who are on management contracts, those who are still plus all of which are therefore on contracts of projects and I claim therefore responsible, and I have such information, probably other colleagues, and I want them officially, that there are tens and hundreds of thousands of thousands of a month when all are being summed up, respectively, fees that receive individual projects, which are specific emissions, i. So in that part we need to know and let me just say that I can't accept the third report saying that Croatian television cannot respect it as a public institution of the Public Procurement Act. It's acceptable to me at all. Here I insist that she respects him in every segment, because saying that because of art I don't know the shirts can't be bought in one place, I can. I'll explain it as an economist technically. So, a bid for a thousand shirts per year is being opened, then taken according to the design, color, size, material of what is desired, but more favourable conditions are being obtained if such purchase is made and the tender is in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, where, then, there are possible doubts about nepotism, in personal favor, in bribery and corruption, and everything else that stands out as negative. So, I'm gonna finish, see if I can get some light on soon and red. I expect a lot more from Croatian television than she has ever given. I don't expect us to take off anyone's head, but I expect there to be some changes in editorial policy. To change the individuals of editors who acted irresponsiblely, and everything that followed from the debate confirms, therefore, that if we are well-intentioned, we say that it was irresponsible and that it was a failure. I'm not gonna be mean and say that I still think it was a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52570	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52571	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Sucjec said that three private televisions appeared in front of us against public television. I'm correcting it because the most private television is with us public television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52572	Replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52573	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to replicate to my colleague because I'm surprised, too, actually why we didn't hear anything after a few questions about salaries on Croatian TV. At the same time, we've been listening for days about all the details, not just the wages but the receipts, better said. For days, we have been listening to all the details of the salary and the receipt of parliamentary representatives by insinuating that everything that I have listed is given to every representative. So where, surely, in one totally democratic way, Parliament's representatives are being torn down. However, thank you and here is Mr Galic, and I must say thank you for your democracy. There's democracy after all. Today, he extended the parliamentary transfer of the Parliament's session. Here, even up to four o'clock and 15 minutes. And by chance, I also think my colleague Anticevic has succeeded, but it was interrupted, as usual, before my presentation. But anyway, thanks for the popularity, anyway. And all of a sudden there was a break-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52574	Replication response, Mrs. Ivana Sucec-Thrakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52575	Yes, I will answer to Mr. Markovanovic since not only him and I and everyone else are asking that question and we didn't get the answer. Maybe during the debate, when the proposer has the right to come forward and get it, I expect it. But I expect not only the question of wages but also the question of responsibility for these salaries and the answer specifically for yesterday's "Latinica". First, to tell me who's to blame, and second, to tell me if the same person who's to blame is going to be paid for what he's guilty of. So, for a bad job, will the office get a fee? Which, I repeat, is tens of thousands of kunas a month, so let me be told that's not true. Because I would very much like to have all these doubts, so in those high receipts I broke the information that they were in the ranks of our constituencies and perhaps we would be less, to put it that way, called. And I'm not going to say that here in this report, therefore to my colleague Markovanovic, you have a report, that all the television workers are also very well helped. They get a resurrection, a Christmas certificate, severances, apartment loans, for buying this, more favourable interest, clothes. There's a series of perks, it says everything in the report, please read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52576	Replica, Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52577	Here, I'll try to replicate my colleague Ivani Sucec-Thrakostan. You see, journalists have the right to talk about MPs or one word about politicians. They have the right to speak about their salaries, to speak about their work and their unhappiness. But there's one rhetorical question I ask whether we're left, right, center, etc. Do these same MPs, do these same politicians have the right to talk about journalists? Croatian broadcasting is the public service of all its citizens. She's so defined in the law. If we're called in on the central information shows and they're making a lie that we have 16 thousand kunas on average, that's what I've said once today, there's nobody here but 15 people, and you know who they are. The president, vice presidents and presidents of the working bodies. So that's what we're talking about. Now, I would finally ask my dear friend and colleague who I fought seven, eight years ago. Mirko, I hope not for this kind of television, and I just because of the truth I left that television in the worst way possible. My head was in the bag. That's why I'm very sensitive to both television and the truth. I came to that house at the big door, and they threw me out the big door, and I'm gonna go back to the big door again, colleague Tracostane. But, Mirko, I think it would be my turn to answer the questions asked by Mr. Rozic in accordance with Article 16. Not to quote, this is where article 16 obliges you to give us information that these are people who have special contracts. These people who have special contracts have more than 30,000 kunas. They have more than a hundred fine Boss silk suits, etc., etc. They speak of us as immoral people. They speak of us as Satans. Why wouldn't they say so? They were on commercial TV and they went back to the public. Today we have the television market, let them go, and let them get...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52578	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52579	Just one more second to finish, please, Mr. Vice President. Let me finish with the last sentence. And there is no chance of young professional and educated people who will not be bought, whose sanctity must be true. And not that today's major journalists on Croatian TV are graduate waiters...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52580	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52581	...and graduated barbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52582	Thank you. Here's the fourth time. It's your turn, sir, to respond to the replica. Here's Ivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52583	Of course I have a reply to the replica of my colleague Loncar because I claim so is that Croatian TV has the right, but it also has an obligation to inform the public about the representatives. So they have to inform the public with an exact salary of 12 grand and something. Then they have to tell the public that a representative who performs his duty neatly, so when they inform, they have no right to generalise and say they are all like this or they are all like that. So if they know that someone isn't who they should be, they have to name him, and then they have to know that the representatives who are doing their duty neatly don't have the time, that on Saturdays and Sundays with their voters, that they're driving alone in their cars, that those 30% of the price of the gasoline they get can't amortize or pay for a car that's been destroyed in four years and who's going to buy a new car that costs a few hundred thousand kunas but out of their profits, out of their own pocket. Who's going to pay a representative to register, destroyed tires, possibly accidents, and not tell everything else, that he's not with his family. Well, there are colleagues who also have small children. I'm lucky beyond that. Who, therefore, I'm not saying that the representatives are victims, but they're not, as I say, bon vivannas who have come to the Parliament to do a term, not say a word, to collect the money so that someone could use it to basically use that same money, the same taxpayers are more irresponsible than the MPs use in 10 times or 100 times the amount. That's where I agree with you, fellow Lonchart.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52584	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52585	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, perhaps if you would allow me to say something more in Article 211 minutes or two, in some way trying to access this emotional debate rationally. I think Croatian broadcasting reports simply have bad karma because they come the day after the hardest day perhaps in the recent history of the Croatian people. I was at that conference yesterday where the hosts were the very tops of the Croatian state, and the main lecturer was one man far less qualified even than I was for the topic he was talking about, became a big star in Croatia. At that time in The Hague, there was an indictment against Ante Gotovina, people called me, my wife cried, my mother-in-law cried, people called you, it was a difficult day. The indictment was not accused of Ante Gotovina but also of late President Tudjman and all the authorities of the Croatian government and the Croatian state. When people expected to rest before nightfall, there came this famous Latina. I'll say, I don't think it's a conspiracy theory, but that it's simply a theory of ignorance, that's what I'm going to try to explain. As far as the charges are concerned, I will read here a short letter from 9 March 2004, some among you will remember that in those days I have proposed to Miran Damascus, our prime minister to be a key man who will prepare white paper for the possible role of Croatian court friend in The Hague tribunal and Professor Damascus in one of the conductor letters to me says this way: "I agree with you that the possible conclusion that the "Blash" and "Storm" are the fruits of a criminal association meant that Croatia was born in sin, so this would have echoed not only on the international legitimacy of the Croatian state, but also on Croatian self-awareness. The creation of a tighter national identity requires that the creation of a state be seen in a positive light, when George Washington was treated as a criminal, and under the laws of England at the time he was indeed, it would certainly have a negative impact on the American psyche. In this regard, the claim that President Tudjman was one of the conspirators and criminals is particularly unpleasant, and to some extent distasteful. It is, in fact, an indirect accusation of a person who can no longer be defended, and that is what you have if legally possible ethically problematic." President Tudjman has been a dead man for six years, invites last night to Latina obscenities, people who know nothing about Tudjman, they're not even historians, they didn't know him, he sued me, wanted to sue me because I said he had a tendency to people on the side of social life. Therefore, when it comes to Denis Latin and Zrinki Vrabec Mojzer, it is about tabules of race, the lowest educated journalists in Croatia. I can say that, Damir Caine can't because he thinks that while he's courting Croatian television he can break through there he hasn't been there in 3 years, and Ingrid Anticevic is every 15 days. So, I think my caution is that I don't have to argue anymore I won't go to the election. Now let me say something that makes me think it's not a conspiracy or a left or a right, it's simply a reflection of time. You'll remember that Dennis Latin was a reporter and even the head of correspondence here in Banovina, I haven't noticed a single report that would trouble either individual crime or a common crime that would even trouble the subject. I think even if he was the head of the study at Knin, Mr. Director, you might. ... And in Sisak, therefore, these are people who respond to the timing and weight of our situation not that some editor of the information programme, programme director, programme council or director general,... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The director of Croatian television is trying to hurt Croatia, HDZ, SDP, it is about the reflections of time, and in this sense I will remind you of a very famous exhibition by Peter Ellis that I reminded the other day of the promotion of a public book, which is an Irish historian who gave a lecture on revisionism in Irish histriography. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He said about this "from 1920 to 1970, histriography was dominated by a patriotic trend that came from the the thesis that the Irish people had a historical right to their own country, that it was his moral right, that he had the right to fight for his own independence and that he had the right to fight the English for his own country. In the '70s, a new wave appeared, histriographers of the new wave, who were anti-patriotically focused, who insisted that the Irish were fantastically under the English, that they should not have had independence, that it could even harm them." Something similar has been happening in Croatia in recent years. In this sense, in Croatia, the Office of the President of the Republic and Croatian Television is also renovating a situation which is more or less known from Orwell in 1984 where Winston Graham works at the Ministry of Truth to arrange an archive building. Its function is very simple, that old documents, books, newspapers, magazines are adapted to new historical trends and that is what Croatian television is really doing. It's not just a problem in "Latinica", you had a scandalous counter-plan in which Ivo Pukanic performed and insulted a fellow journalist with the most ground floor language. Croatian television is provincialized, and its importance is very high today, because Croatian television is one of the last defenders of Croatian identity. For what? Because Croatian identity is kind of cursed, it is heterogous, it belongs to all European and non-European traditions. The Croatian people belong and... and Central European and Mediterranean and Adriatic and Western European and Balkan, also said to European civilization, even in the kitchens we have Dalmatian, Istrian, coastal, Slavonian, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must insist on maintaining on Croatian television the taste of Croatian, for example, literary language. In Croatia, the language is developed in dialectal languages, on Croatia television can be spoken in any way that comes to anyone's mind, dialectally. More in Croatian culture is the abandoned famous doctrine of Professor Gavella that also in theatres must be played in Croatian literary language, so it has long been believed that Croats have worse actors than Serbs because Serbs have acted as they speak in their homeland, today it happens in that area and in this sense when it comes to misunderstandings, I will tell you what the misunderstanding is. A large number of people are simply frustrated here, Croatian TV is a factory of anti-Saborial and anti-representative consciousness. I don't need to remind you, here's a colleague, Mislav Bago, who showed up empty this assembly and kept some story about a central diary about how it was the mass of non-workers of the homeless and then recorded a colleague of Emil Tomljanovic raising or paying an account at the "Primary Bank". And what's the problem? TV is an intimate medium, as it says... Majrovic, a follower of Marshal Mikluna, is not a medium of ideas, nor great content, but a medium of impressions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People watch television with a meter or two distances. It's a distance convenient to seduce and threaten and when you come home, you sit down with your kids, you want your kids to believe that you're someone and something, that you're doing, that you're not lame, and then you open up the TV and the guy shows up there and shows you as nobody, as a bum, as a non-worker, as a silver lover, and we're officially the owners of that television. Excuse me, if you are only extremely masochistic then you will accept such a type of consciousness, but as far as the fear of fellow Stazic is concerned, he will eventually, I bet with Mara and HDZ will vote for these reports. Therefore, and I wanted to say something to Tonci Vujic, but I will welcome him next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52586	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Mr. Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52587	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here is a replica regarding Mr Letica's claim that ignorance, today it becomes increasingly dominant form of communication on Croatian television, and if we find it and if it is evident, then really no one has the right to challenge the efforts of parliamentary representatives and all those who say it declares it a head cut, to challenge those who think such reports should be challenged and this is the form of undemocratic behaviour that I thought we had long ago left behind, but unfortunately some statements here show that this is not true. Ignorance dominates. About the most important things about knowledge, the role of knowledge in society, but I don't want to talk about it right now because it's too serious a debate about what we're talking about here today. Ignorance yesterday... During the debate on the "Latinica" of an obscenity person, I don't know what she is on the radio of HTV or Radio 101, her statements, her irresponsibility other than hate, except indoctrination are unacceptable levels of quality that qualify someone to even learn about the public scene, and you have made dear gentlemen and prime minister and strike and strike topic in order to allow such an obscenity person to speak no less about the father of the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's true. And that's inadmissible. Fourteen days ago, the issued of Vukovar, one of the obscenities spoke again, insinuated. You've chosen people who are inextricable, you've bypassed institutions. When it comes to Vukovar, you should have asked the main headquarters, there is the Institute of History and everything that normal institutions do you are not ready and you do not want to do it because you aimly are making a mess on the Croatian media scene. And it's part of your responsibility, and in that sense, you need to consider this debate well-intentioned and responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52588	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52589	Well, a respected colleague, on two occasions, injured the Rules of Procedure of Article 214 because he apparently deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly by calling the journalist "101" who was also decorated in the war, calling her a two-time obscenity person.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52590	Madam Representative, you are not here to interpret the Rules of Procedure. I'm the one right now. Don't bother, thank you for the help that's not help. Mr. Ivo Loncar is also looking for a breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52591	Mr. Vice President, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, otherwise a respected lawyer, made a mistake and called for Article 214 and it is completely wrong because she could not have called on this article, but you can call on her to give a warning because article 214 speaks of a warning. And she earned all six items of caution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52592	Just like you deserve because you didn't quote the article of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to. No, but you're contesting 214 but you're not referring to it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll assess when I'm supposed to be sitting here, and when I don't, and now I don't think you should give any notice to Mrs. Anticevic or to you, Mr. Loncar, even though you both abused this board. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The reply to Mr. Cosic's replica has Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52593	It's my fault that fellow Cosic actually went to this labeling I wouldn't recommend when it comes to ladies. I expect he'll understand that, too. I was talking about incompetence, and I was talking about the fact that as a moral arbiter in Croatia, a man who is most often on Croatian television, Žarko Puhovski, a man who was a crown witness to my colleagues, Čičko, Budishi, who would never appear on any other state on public television, could not especially appear not to speak about human rights, freedom of the media, democratic rules and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52594	The replica of Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, I was reminded of a recent situation in this assembly when we discussed Mrs. Jasic and the Council and when Mr. President of the SDP threatened this speaker with a finger, saying that we would all suffer far-reaching consequences if we went through the council or I don't know what. Now, I'm interested in having Mr. Sociologist answer me. Why do our evil owls in this assembly keep repeating that any changes to the law, perhaps the principal, perhaps the directorship and perhaps the council will collapse the institution? So what is this institution, a sacred cow? Is that the end of the world? Couldn't we have better law, better principalship and better television?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52596	Answer Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52597	As soon as I'm told, I'm a doctor of economic science. Where the Mato Churchman was, he was my assistant, I couldn't learn a lot of them at the time, but I still managed to get a doctorate. As far as I'm concerned, I haven't been able to talk about some good things about Croatian television. So, Croatian television, unlike some other TV in Central Europe, has managed to keep different methods of viewing, and let's say that's one comparative advantage that should now be used to leave scandalous banalization of television growth and these ridiculous... These external productions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I still, Mr. Galic, expect your answers to the very legitimate questions asked by this colleague, Rosic, and I don't think we should vote until we get answers to all the questions he asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52598	Thank you. Replica Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52599	Yes, Mr. Letica. Damir Caine, Mr Letica has not been adhering to anyone and at least to Croatian radio and television. Damir Cain said what you didn't say far more openly and far more clearly, but Damir Cain also said he would vote for this report. Now let's put aside and financial opportunities that are incomparably better than they were in 2000 or let go and the fact that freedoms on HRT are today incomparably greater than 99. But I assure you, both you and the other MPs, that it will not be good for this report to be debated as well as in a way that the empire is now reciprocating Croatia's radio-television and all gentlemen are heading towards change on Croatian radio-television and that will not contribute to any democracy, that will be inauguration of certain non-freedoms on Croatian radio-television, which will face both your prime minister and my prime minister and many others who will soon have to explain in which direction the Republic of Croatia is heading. Why are we all calling the Latino now? To draw attention perhaps from some other equally current topics. Whether it's Gotovina or Austria, it doesn't matter if it's about attacking Croatia's radio and bringing its people in tomorrow, or whether HDZ might homogenize its political lectorate. In this House, we could finally have a nice elegantly opened discussion about "Latinica", about Tudjman, whom we all have the right to experience in some way in our own way and then make clear how to enter into the debate about the very report on Croatian radio television, the note of Bene for 2004, and no, what day was it yesterday? 12.12.2005. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52600	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52601	My colleague Cain does not have any empirical confirmation for the key thesis that freedom of the media or freedom of Croatia, freedom of expression on Croatian television is greater today than it used to be. If a serious empirical analysis were made, she would discover a major paradox. That the late President Tudjman was the most critical statesman in the former communist world. And it's the paradox of his situation. And as for freedom, a new type of political correctness has been created. Today, more or less anything that would suggest a bit of patriotism is reverse, right, primitive, cleronationalistic, and in this sense, the scales of freedom are very difficult to measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52602	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52603	Thank you very much. Well, with great pleasure, I listened to the inspired presentation of fellow Letica. Especially those of his articles between sentences that should always be heard well when he speaks. But I don't agree with one thing, so I'm asking one question. In the end, you said HDZ would vote for these two reports. So what do you think of our stranger that we might accept these reports after everything you've said about them? And after all that we have said about these accounts. How do you think we could accept these reports when it is clear in them that Croatian television does not work in the public interest, when it is clear that it is spreading false information that we will further detail with these individual discussions. When he spreads his hate speech. Yesterday after Latina, I was the first person to be happy that there was no 4 years of Homeland War on HTV. Because through the hate speech he would have been clearly depicted as yesterday depicted the entire Croatian people. After all, in order to vote for this, for the report of this television that doesn't even respect the Media Act that anyone who is slandered on that television, and who has us there anymore, has no right or right to do so, but then they call it violence, they send our answers to other related lists and call us to enforce the law by force and to see the correction of the wrong quote. So I assure you there are no elements to accept that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52604	Mr. Letica's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52605	There's a thought at Shakespeare, and it says, "If you can see, you can see into the roots of time, you have the right to speak to me." In that sense, I have nothing, no bad opinion but I have a very educational experience from the debate earlier. And I know the mental sets of party guides. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52606	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Letica, I have listened carefully to your presentation and from the opening part I would like to correct one of your incorrect allegations. In a very direct speech, you said that yesterday you were listening to an unqualified man speak. It was in a clear context, it's clear to all of us as well as to you who you've been talking about. And I believe it's an absolutely incorrect quote, and why is it incorrect? I think that to speak to this man about any problem concerning the citizens of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, that man is qualified with 60% of the votes in the second election round.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52608	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected director with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is a pity that last night's show of Latina almost eliminated the debate in this Assembly on the implementation of the Law on Croatian Radio Television. Even though my impression was even worse, parliamentary representatives tried to defend their rights, not to analyse the implementation of the Law on Croatian Television. If, and allow me to quote the provisions of Articles 6, 14 and 57 of the first sentence: "Croatian television in the implementation of the programme is obliged to implement, contribute to the respect and promotion of fundamental human rights and freedoms, democratic values, institutions and the promotion of the culture of public dialogue." Then, by my court, a very important provision to consider these reports. Article 14: "In its action, HRT promotes public interests, respects the interests of the public and is responsible for the public." Finally, the 57th article: "The supervision of the legality of the work of the HRT Council is therefore carried out by the Croatian Parliament." And those who taught me something about public action, so those who deal professionally and scientifically with, with the media from a distance, told me that manipulation of public media is possible in several ways. First, I was told that the most common manipulation is the choice of the subject. Or the subject. Second, it's a choice of associates because they usually do so to bring in those who will express what they want. And the third manipulation is by agreeing facts according to the pre-planned scenario. I admit that Latina is almost the most skilled, but our problem isn't Latina, though it is Latina. Our problem is public television. And the responsibility of public television is to public television viewers. Of course, the Croatian Parliament can manipulate either knowingly or unconsciously. It is on the agenda of the 2004 HRT annual report and the report on the work of the 2004 Programme Council, and let me say that it is my feeling that we spent half the time defending our position and half the time attacking television through the Latina show. If we have achieved our task of building public television, then our voters will honor us. But if we haven't achieved our role to promote the development of public television, I hope the same voters will be able to assess it. What's the problem with public television? Well, the problem is, he's got to work the program, yeah, for almost every show, it's gonna be like somebody doesn't like it. Either there are no more serious groups or groups in Croatia that will find no objection for every show on Croatian television. There isn't. That's my opinion. But it is also better for colleagues and colleagues than for television to do a program that will only like part of Croatian ratings. Or to work a program that won't like the very part of Croatian ratings. It would be public television for part of Croatian Radio and Television viewers. And there is no such public television. The worst would be if we went back one step, and as it happened in this term, they were called show editors to directly correct the position of editors. That's what a colleague of Hebrang knows, and that's what Mr. Cat knows when he called "Open." So our responsibility is not to defend ourselves against Croatian television but is our responsibility to encourage the development of public television with all the disadvantages and all the advantages public television brings. Of course we'll all be in our position because we can't look at the value of every show and that's fine. But I trust Croatian viewers, and we have left them with a quality assessment of Croatian television and we must insist that they will know what is wrong with the Croatian TV programme. I'm sure of it. That I'm almost out of the picture, but I'm going to say, let's go back to the programming principles adopted by this House by passing the Law on Croatian Radio Television. So programs must satisfy public interests, etc., so I don't read now. There are 5 items and 10 sub-items that state taxively that these are the programming principles of public television. Let us discuss these principles and how they are realized, even if it is on a concrete TV show, and from concrete TV shows we will come to the conclusion of the entire programme of Croatian broadcasting. It is interesting that it is an official policy, so the official policy is to join the European Union and we have been given negotiations for full membership in the European Union. Is it, and I think it is the interest of the viewers of the Republic of Croatia to better explain both the shortcomings and advantages of joining the European Union. How many TV shows do we have that are acceptable not to, in the alleged signs of "elite" which in itself can come to the conclusion that the advantages are, what disadvantages, but an average Croatian viewer? How many shows have we had, how many have the Parliament asked for official policy to be discussed on Croatian radio? Or is it Croatian TV, our attention is turned to Croatian television because it is also a stronger medium. Something else related to the business of Croatian Radio Television. All serious people know that business can be done by making a profit every year. But is the goal of Croatian Radio Television to send us a financial report that it has 5 million kuna income left and that the technologically lagging Croatian broadcasting is? Well, that's not the point. We need to train Television to compete with similar televisions or commercial television throughout the European Union. Well, it will increase further, or even stronger competition will come than we have now. They'll come not only to say commercial television, not just commercial television. This is why the issue of development, technologically, is very important. Financial independence TV is very important. So, in this context, let's give some more assistant to the Council of Croatian Radio Television to observe the programme from different interesting spheres, because they can't do that. But let's not eliminate steps towards public television through one show. If a colleague Stazic was right, however, that the policy on this one and the other report was designed to lead to a shift on Croatian television, and in the period of half the mandate changed the leadership of Croatia's broadcasting, all stories will be revealed immediately behind that. We can manipulate both me and the public now, but in the end, the truth will come true. ... I allow others to have a different view, but I do not forbid them to take their stand, neither will I, nor can I. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I would always defend their right to take their stand. In the end, the report should be accepted. Not because Croatian TV and Croatian radio are without sin, because it could not be better, but rather because TV should not be used to promote one policy. Because then it's not public television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52610	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the director of Croatian Radio Television, we have three replicas and six corrections of incorrect allegations. We'll start with the replicas. The first is Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With part of your presentation, my colleague Leko, I fully agree, but your finding that public television, whatever program you're offering, is not going to like a piece of the audience is very surprising to me since you're alluding to last night's Latin. Do you think this very show is a good example that the program did not like the part of the audience? I'm actually more interested in what part of the audience liked the program. Because I believe that most Croatian public would absolutely reject such a show and not accept it. And I would even add, no matter what Mr. Letica said, that show looks like something I might call, so you might think it's actually in a package of so-called. A criminal enterprise. One more thing, it's not just one show. In the Latina that spoke can be two, three Latins about a conflict of interest, a journalist contributed to that 20 million-dollar show, listen to me honestly, that's right, 20 million kunas that this Parliament is devoting to a hospital in Mostar. And the defendant is Andrija Hebrang, beware that radiological equipment has been purchased for these 20 million kunas in Mostar. And the truth is that no kuna of 20 million kunas allocated, not for a hospital in Mostar, but for health care in the Federation, was purchased in Mostar, no kuna was spent on radiological equipment. Thus, this show is constantly and forever dealt with both MPs and the Parliament and the same, and with the same. And that's why we're talking here this way, fellow Leko. Don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52612	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52613	Comrade Bagaric, you're not fair. Here's why. In my debate, I said those who taught me that it could be manipulated in public media, so I said by choosing a topic, choosing a conversation, choosing a choice and agreeing facts. And then I added behind it, it looks like the best thing to do is Latina. What do you think I should say more about that? Is it necessary? It's not. Therefore, do not draw out of context to score points. That's not what I want. ... Please, I said a specific thing specifically. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52614	Replica, Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52615	Here's my colleague, Leko, your colleague Stazic, a party colleague, has been rebelling, and here I am giving you a chance to read my line. Speaking of the program, so you were talking about the right to answer, etc., you were talking about some politicians who called directly on the show, some of you even mentioned. I would ask you, as a fellow parliamentary representative, to ask the editor of the Information Programme of Croatian Television why in two cases within a month in the worst possible way you would be ashamed of yourself and Goebbels himself about me are such lies on Croatian television. He promised me both times, in front of the witnesses, and we watched the tapes both times, and we watched the phonograms, and the other one attacked the one where the journalist literally cut out the sentences and made them so that Gebers would say, "Ellie, Eli lamá azâvtani?"what she did and promised me that it would be published, it did not come out. By law, I have the right to do that. It's just that he and some other guy wanted me to go sue my ex-house, I didn't want to. Why am I saying this? That it would never happen to anyone again. Because what's a reporter? The reporter is a public witness. He's a journalist and a public conscience. I've learned journalism from the greatest among the greatest, I've won his prize, his name is Veseko Tenzera. Twenty-five years ago, he told me in front of ten people as the most advanced in my generation, "Braco," that's what he called me. "When you put the first text on the order, you're not a journalist anymore." How many of them are on Croatian television today, especially those who report from here who can say to themselves that they are journalists or that they do not write by order. I have nothing personal against you, Mr. Roncevic, but you have deeply offended me as a man, both as a journalist, both as a colleague and as an editor. Explain here why you didn't publish it, and in front of the witnesses you promised me both, and these were such drastic lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52616	Thank you very much. Joseph Leko's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52617	I thank you for giving me the right, and as far as your replica goes, she is directed to other colleagues. I can only tell you, it doesn't matter what you're from and what political option you're from. I sympathise with anyone who lies to his or her own, but a person who is political, professional, morally laid down, and I call on you to defend the independence of journalists, professionalism and personal responsibility, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52618	Replica, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52619	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so I will replicate to my esteemed colleague, Leki, where he stated and strictly claimed that the conviction or court on the work of the Programme Council, editorship, directorship and all who create the programme has the right to give only the Croatian public or the audience of that programme. I do not know why this debate in the Croatian Parliament is today, what is the report in this Croatian Assembly if this represents nothing and why we spend so much time if this House has no jurisdiction. So I will give an example of where the Programme Council is being shown towards the Croatian Parliament, according to the Presidency on its initiative, on the monitoring of the work of the Croatian Parliament where individual members of the Council have warned of the eligibility of any state institution or institution to discuss the HTV programme, to address HTV's directorship in this regard, and then to seek the opinion of the Council of Croatian Radio Television. From... on the basis of certain failures, the entire programme cannot be tried and those failures organised as designed editorial policy. [[You don't understand.]] Tell me, who should be estimating this? Isn't this the Croatian House Presidency multiparty? Aren't there representatives of all the parties in this House? Don't they have the right to give their initiative and a proposal on editorial policy? Should the audience alone be judged by them or by the Croatian Parliament who appointed them? Please answer me these questions in my looming replica and which are defined in the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52620	Answer Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Djakic, in order to answer your question, should take a long time, and you know why, because you need to understand the meaning of the Law on Croatian Television, so the concept of Article 14 would be very clear to you. In its action HRT promotes public interests, respects the interests of the public and answers the public for its action. You're plimising with the law, not with me. How does the public do it? Well, the Croatian Council is public and works on behalf of the public. And you and I are not challenged to discuss the work of Croatian Radio Television, Development, Financial Business and All, but we are not the public court of counterpart Djakic in the sense that this is foreseen by the Law on Croatian Television. Unfortunately, or to joy, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52622	Thank you. We're moving on to corrections. The first is Mr. Zeljko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52623	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Leco said, quote, "Our problem isn't Latina," our problem is public television." It's simply incorrect. What does a TV set do to public television if it's not her TV? It doesn't seem like the accounting of television to public television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52624	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52625	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague, Leko, your representative, answers to you, it is not true that Latina is not our problem. Our problem is just "Latinica", it's part of the Croatian Radio-Television programme. You quoted Article 6, amongst them you quoted and said Article 57, not Article 57, but Article 58(2), the supervision of the legality of the work of the HRT Council is carried out by the Croatian Parliament. That'd be the first one. Secondly, you said that Croatia, it is not true that Croatian television is leading us in its work on the right path towards the European Union. This should be if she respected the Law on Croatian Television, but she does not respect it, because last night it was proven because Croatian Television, Croatian Television last night did what cannot be done in the Croatian people, and can do to those who are happy to listen and translate, last night "Latinica" is certainly translated into several foreign languages. We point to the truth about the Homeland War and war is the time and it is part of our history that last night Croatian TV in the program "Latinica"...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52626	And I thank you for the third time. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his otherwise very correct debate, Mr. Leko presented one inaccuracies, which is that yesterday's Latina eliminated the debate on HRT. The esteemed colleague obviously did not listen to today's debate in full, as the emphasis was also on the financial business of Croatian Radio Television, but I agree with you that it was an attempt by Croatian television to try to focus today's debate on these topics through last week's campaign against parliamentary representatives and through yesterday's "Latinica" and draw attention from other more important topics, which is primarily financial business and irregularities in financial business.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52628	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52629	Thank you very much. Mr. Leko incorrectly stated that I was meddling with a telephone call to the Croatian Broadcasting Programme by accepting the methodology that Croatia's broadcasting has already been spending for a long time, and that is a repeat lie until it becomes true. Mr. Leko, I just called to ask how I can deny Mr. Spray's notorious lie, which he purposely stated and that he has damaged Croatian economic interests, you well know what this is about. And I called to ask how to do that because my written requests about the correctness of Croatia's untrue television are not responding and correcting them. So I never wanted to get involved in the program or that's what I'm interested in. I'm interested in having a television that's public, which means it has to tell the truth, the truth and only the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52630	And the next correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52631	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Leko said the following. The main problem with HTV is that there is no show that most people would agree on. I don't think that's absolutely true. This is actually one peripheral thing and the main problem of HTV is today, when it comes to the programme, the approach of certain editors to certain social issues and problems where political nihilism, political destruction and any system of values are created in such emissions. What the Croatian viewer needs today, we here in the Parliament and all the social factors in Croatia are the following. We need modern, European, global television, but national television. I'm afraid that's not what HTV is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52632	And respected representative Ivana Sučec-Thrakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52633	Mr. Leco incorrectly stated that it was designed to advance policy to hit on television. I'm going to prove to that deduction that it's practically not only incorrect but impossible. Because when we discuss the report, it would mean that we prepared such a report in advance, or that we participated in all those actions that brought about such a report, which is practically impossible. And then even worse, you'd think that we were going to do "Latin" on purpose, and then we'd have an even worse cause. I mean, that's really the final conclusion. And in addition, it is partly incorrect when a colleague said that it can affect the public by choosing a topic and a conversation. I claim that even more can affect the overall creation of a virtual reality by conversing what we witnessed. So, more events that were silenced and were very important. Now I will not speak from the Millennium Meeting of the President of the Parliaments of the World where ours is not, of course, mentioned. In our country, it is not mentioned to a number of other very important things where they did not exist in Croatia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52634	I wasn't in New York at that conference. ... Then I was, I guess. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52635	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Croatian television, colleagues and colleagues. On the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, when on the agenda was the Management Report on the operation of Croatian Broadcasting and Report and the work of the HRT Programme Council, I asked the representatives of the proposings. Not that I didn't get a satisfactory answer, but I didn't get any answers, and that moved me to participate today in this debate. I believe that every company, every company that has a positive business and a year ends with a profit deserves a pass in the Parliament. That's how it should be treated with HRT. But that's exactly what it is if we know what HRT has. I mean property and personnel, how it has the same kind of competition and what's most important, what business policy leads to. And the question of all the questions, therefore, could it have been better? Of course, you can always do better. It's business policy, I'd say, the worst part, and that's visible from these reports. This is best seen from the profit shown in 2003, which was almost 68 million kuna, while it was around 3 million kuna in 2004. If it is seen that the only revenue from the subscription is increased, i.e. fees, and all other sources of income are falling in 2004, then nevertheless the number of workers is increasing even though the number of employees in 2003 was 3 thousand 589 employees, which is the largest number of employees in the last decade, and possibly since Croatian broadcasting works. So in 2004, another 200 new employees were admitted. Now, the report shows that employees' salaries have also increased. For wages, an enormous 440 million kuna is allocated. The share of salaries in total expenditure is too high, almost 33%. There is no, I say responsibly, in any, therefore, private company in Croatia. The question now needs to be asked what kind of business policy it is that, when the programme is reduced, it is left without the 3rd programme. Therefore, the volume of work is reduced, and new employees are received. There's something wrong. The question is just how would HRT operate if TV subscription were not mandatory, cards were coded and, say, those cards were bought in kiosks as well as for the rest of the press. So whoever wants to watch buy a card and watch that program. And, then, here you are, he wouldn't even comment on your business. So then it would be clear how much you really are actually worth on the market. I certainly want to point out what's good. So, as far as the program is concerned. It has also been recognised that the quality of its TV program has not allowed RTL and TV NOVA to spread. These TV houses did not take a chance to impose and take away the primate of Croatia's broadcasting. It's also good for the moral hygiene of our society, so that shows like Big Brothers don't become an inevitable fate. I don't think shows like this are educational, they're not fun. This is precisely the kind of TV such as RTL and TV NEW is a clear witness about how increasing competition does not necessarily mean improving the quality of the programme. It could almost be said that never again unskilled and ham shows have been on television as recently. However, it should be said that this business of Croatian broadcasting is not good. Better, it is not much better than not that long ago when, after the recovery of losses, it was coming to Mark's square and if something really doesn't change in the business of Croatian Radio Television, if it is trying to make such a non-critical income for employees, increase, reducing the programme and all that I've already said, I think we're on the best track to get the old times back to Croatian RadioTV soon. Now let me go back to that question I didn't get a satisfactory answer to, and I believe that's what the public is interested in. In fact, your house often warns the Croatian public at the height of the salaries and receipts of parliamentary representatives. It warns the public of privileges enjoyed by MPs, thus clouding them and creating in public the image that MPs are ordinary bounty hunters. Of course, I'm here to say that I don't mind the fact that the Croatian public knows how many MPs receive it. In fact, it's neither secret nor from the president of the state to the parliamentary representative. All of this is available and all of this is made available by the Croatian public, therefore, knows. However, what the Croatian public does not know is what are your receipts on Croatian broadcasting and what privileges you have. The question that bothers all of us MPs, which is whether it is a little bit immoral and hypocritical for those who are paid and for different monthly incomes to cross 20, 30 and more thousand kunas so often point to the public’s wages of those who do not pass 15 thousand. A while ago, your prominent journalist literally forced the editor-in-chief of one to tell me that the Czech public television was about to reveal the height of his salary. When he calculated that it was about 45 thousand kunas at least and it would have been moral and polite to have reported then, among other things, the Croatian public as much as the person receiving such rank on Croatian television. He is very skillful, and I would say that since I did not get an answer to these questions that I have asked, so it seems indicative to me, it is a common hiding and now, gentlemen, if we know that we are all expensive public employees, the public has the right to know how many monthly incomes and principals and all editors and external associates are, so what interests both this House and the Croatian public are telling you that they should finally call it so that this same public can then compare, that they can in a certain way compromise, so that they can see whether those who point to some great privileges, so whether they are credible, let the Croatian public evaluate it then. And in the end, this is a debate that I would not like to repeat what is already said, but I want to end it, in the end, it is quite clear that power and money are not in this assembly, power and money is mostly in those who have the ability to manipulate the media, therefore, gentlemen of that in your house is not missing. And finally, to end up with this famous "Latinica" I think it is extremely incorrect for you to falsify a newer Croatian history with the means of taxpayers who are largely disgusted by such presentations as we have the opportunity to watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52636	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52637	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last night's show we talked about has achieved its goal. I received a text message just now, watching last night's "Latin" show on HTV in Clay blew up by a Croatian defender bomb, you got a teletext, a greeting, my friend sends it to me. I went to check, on the teletext of Croatian television there is no information, on the teletext of RTL and has information. I thought I'd talk, I'm upset after this, I can't anymore, I've prepared a speech, I've been meaning to suggest some things, but I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52638	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52639	Well, actually, when one news like this comes to the constituency bench, of course, that man can't concentrate, but I would certainly like to point out once more, so this sad news is also a confirmation that a large part of the Croatian public does not support such an editorial policy of Croatian television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52640	Another replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52641	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is Mr. Rebić, in his presentation, did not cover all the segments that the HRT Council reported and submitted and wrote here, so I will help him remind him and remind those who are relevant. I will therefore say that, on the basis of my supervisory and advisory tasks, the HRT Council has committed, on the basis of the report on the implementation of the HTV programme orientation from 20 September 2004 to 1 July 2005, to the programme and business leadership of HRT, each taking the necessary action as part of its work, work and powers to implement the following proposals and observations by members as part of the implementation of the programme orientations of HTV. Well, I'll just say one of those suggestions and remarks. Special attention should be paid to the development of the documentary and the domestic programme, not only because social flows show a trend of return to the documentary programme, but also because this segment of the programme is of national interest and remains for history. In this sense, a special place should have documentary shows about Croatian giants because they may be yesterday's shows. Perhaps your leaders misread what they would do in the mission. Tell me, is it true about Croatian giants that these shows are being organised on the basis of remarks you received from the Council because it is your truth about Croatian giants that the first Croatian president of the state spits on shows like that? Did he deserve it from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52642	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52643	Thank you. Actually, I can agree with my colleague, but my debate was to point out what was for me and for a large part, and the Croatian public well in the Croatian TV programme, because I really think that shows like "Big Brother", so if they were to flood us so that they wouldn't have a little quality on TV screens, and believe that the vast majority of citizens who don't have a choice are watching what is being served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52644	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52645	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, it is difficult to speak after this news we have heard from colleagues from Loncar, the only thing I can say here to the present representatives of Croatian television is your Dennis Latin, ashamed of him and all the Denis you have there, which is the fruit of your womb. Shame on you. In my presentation, I wanted to say that Croatian radiotelevision has shown how to deal with the public, because we have just received word from the director that the present gentlemen have stopped the transfer here, which means after that old Stalin stop the swarm. We can also say about the Council of the Croatian Radiotelevision, which criticises the parliamentary representative for doing his duty and on the basis of Article 58, in the framework of the supervision of the work of the Council, gives your debate by code to stop the parliamentary representative. Of course, stop the truth and democracy, but to prove that this House works under the law, that we do not politicise and that we do not want to interfere in the editorial policy of Croatian television I will only talk about the illegalities of that television. The first is the illegality of not respecting the Croatian language. Article 5 The HRT law says that Croatian radiotelevision is obliged to transmit sports events, according to the Law, they transmit sports events, English events. Article 9 of the same Act as Article 11 states that it is obliged to broadcast sports events, they convey sports events. In the report, however, they use the word sport in 6 places, thus persistently repeating the wording they want to show their orientation against national interests, against public interests such as respect for Croatian language. They also violate Article 7. The law on Croatian-radiotelevision because the news does not bring truth, integrity and impartiality. They also do not act and promote public interests according to Article 14. Here's some reasoned evidence. Based on an analysis of 15 Reports on the Assembly, the ratio of the representation of opposition representatives to the ruling coalition to 5 to 1, we achieved a relatively good result, according to who is judging us. The President of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, speaks at a Millennium meeting in New York, showing foreign television but there is no place for it on the Croatian Television Log because the president of the Croatian Parliament is not important for them. The prime minister of the Croatian government compared to the former prime minister in the first three months of his term appears in proportion to one to seven, I am talking about informative emissions. The recognition ceremony of "The Hero of the Homeland War" which the Association of Defence assigns to Dr Franja Tudjman goes without news on Croatian television because the Homeland War and its first hero are not news to them. The same recognition to the Vukovar hospital attended by the Deputy Prime Minister and one Croatian government minister also has no news on Croatian TV and on Dnevnik. For them, that night is much more important than the victims of a hurricane on another continent. The 14th anniversary of "Blash" on the Croatian daily was the 11th news in a row. The first news was that a bus went over in South Africa. The 14th anniversary of "Storm" in Knin, 14, I repeat, where the prime minister attends with ministers in Dnevnik, is side news. Four years without positive news of Dr. Francis Tudjman. Yesterday, Dennis Latine eased up, so he talked about Tudjman in an HTV way. There is no support for national interests in the area of the economy. Never in any show have brilliant positive examples and negative as much as you want. You who watch Croatian TV have no idea what the company Electro Contact means and what privatisation was and what it means in world terms. What did the corromic cementar do in economic development? She doesn't have room because she's a positive example. There is also no room for Ericsson to penetrate European and global proportions. Furthermore, there is no news of successful state-owned enterprises, only criticism, grief and misery with the intention of this country that you created is not good, why you created it. I also have to mention the last budget debate. Here we had a chance to hear a latent with a basket in our hand. During the whole speech, the MP mentioned not once the state budget, but she was shining lies about the disproportionate cost of the cart according to the average salary of one, I repeat, one rather than 1.8 employees in the family. But Croatian television has made a significant contribution to this left basket has not been able to say that there have been 17 reasoned corrections to the incorrect allegations of that representative. Or, for example, that on November 24th, before the parliament was passed, we saw on our daily the letter and number of the 5 opposition deputies standing like this and speaking as I am now and not one representative of the ruling coalition. I also have to mention the relationship to the recent past. October 2nd is the anniversary of the attack on Dubrovnik, the turning point of the Homeland War, because the attack on the Dubrovnik walls turned the picture of this work into the eyes of the world. And that is actually the beginning of the end of Serbian aggression and the beginning of the international community's support for that poor attack on Croatia. On October 2nd, the anniversary of the attack on Dubrovnik highlights all private television but for public television it is not news and does not mention it at all in its daily journal. It's a national public television that doesn't seem to fit that date. Maybe they'll say there was more important news, so we didn't make it. It was. On that day, we listened to the news about Professor Balthazar very important for national pride and national sovereignty, we also listened to the contribution in the Rolling Stones journal, which is even more important for Croatian national interests. It is a shame to know about action against public interest and that for the last Independence Day, the Day of Independence, which is the greatest national holiday of all countries. Let's remember what other national and private TV news looks like on the day of their independence, just remember Paris. On our Independence Day, it was recently announced by television in the journal that Independence Day is like the fourth news. The first news was a break-in into one bank with no victims, the second news was a verdict once, the third news was a conviction to another, and then you just know today is still your Independence Day, so here's to you as the fourth news. The biggest sarcasm towards the viewers was the fall day of the Vukovar we recently marked. On the day of the fall of Vukovar, I do not speak on the day of the defeat of Vukovar because Vukovar has never been defeated, Croatian television has made a real political diversion. On the day of the fall of Vukovar in the programme from 19 to 22 hours, therefore the most visible term on the first and second programmes and public national television, of course, is that there are no shows about Vukovar, any testimony about Vukovar, but there are even three comedyes in the below. Dearly beloved Croatian TV leaders Vukovar is not a comedy for us if it's for you. The same evening as the convenient programme due to the day of the fall of Vukovar screens an American film but about the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And why are they showing it? Because in that movie, those Americans who fly up above that Bosnia don't even know what's going on down there, they're equating Croats, Serbs and Muslims, and that was the point of why that movie was shown that night. All I have listed is not interference in the programme of television, but supervision of the Croatian Assembly is the legality of the work. This is all against the law because it does not comply with the Law on Croatian Television. Personal experience. For a year and almost half, I was Deputy Prime Minister, and I never once appeared on a small screen except for the occasion of the GMO affair and... So imaginary affairs against the vice president of the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I am pleased to say, in the last month of my public criticism of Croatian television, I have received exactly seventeen calls to appear on different shows. The last one was tonight for "Open." Of course, I refused all seventeen because the parliamentary representative standing upright is not bought for one display on a small screen, especially when it is an unobstructive screen. If he were objectively different, he'd probably have acted differently. It is also against the law when Croatian television is deliberately working against economic interests. Let us remember the damage that Mr. Spreitz has done with the intention of turning the truth into a conversion of PIK companies Belje and Sunny Hvar. The damages are irreparable, etc. Finally, the truth can be stopped on a small screen but the truth about the Croatian small screen cannot be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52646	Replicated representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52647	Mr. President, Mr. Andrija Hebrang's esteemed representative did not mention as far as Vukovar was concerned that on the same eve of the fall of Vukovar the 17th show "Open" was transferred from Vukovar where we thought it would be about the Homeland War, that the defenders would talk about these things. But it was about the co-existence where those who shot at us and were with us and we thought they would. However, it gave them more attention and a forum of young Serbs came in the front row, our Croatian wife and associations from the Homeland War were right behind where they didn't see each other at all, and then they thought why they called us. And I think it's a failure that at all during the time, before the crash there were three films somewhere instead of the defenders saying that the last days were being defended by Vukovar and that they were, how many victims there were. I think it's really against all the conventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52648	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52649	Thank you very much, dear fellow Milnaric, to the man who defended Vukovar for making this observation. I deliberately did not want to mention this show because it is beneath the dignity of even such Croatian television. On that show on the day of the fall of Vukovar, the question arises whether Vukovar was betrayed? Yes, gentlemen, it was released that night by Croatian television. If you want to discuss whether Vukovar was betrayed, then you don't invite those people who were frustrated because they were inside, defending him, and under suspicion leaving the city. Whether they're justified or not, that's not the topic of the debate right now. But then people are called upon to decide the fate of Vukovar at least one of them that you have called. So that you may hear why the Vukovar fell and how he was betrayed. And the very idea of asking questions is suggestive and actually fits into a fundamentally, politically colored program of this television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52650	HDZ Club President-in-Office of the Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52651	Mr. President, I'm asking a 10-minute break for the club session so that we can discuss further discussion and the latest news that we received in this debate and last night's show in this House and on TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52652	Thank you. Ten minutes. 18 and 50 extensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52653	We're moving on with the session. I would like the president of the HDZ Club of Vice-Presidents of Honorable Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52654	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the HDZ Club held its session where club representatives discussed the course of today's debate, the numerous replicas, the corrections of incorrect allegations and the like, which is happening all day. Nothing out of the ordinary, we have had this at some of the agenda points so far, and some MPs have even troubled their participation in a further debate, with the possibility of withdrawing their applications for discussion. And as it's been 17 hours since we're done, 19 hours when we're finishing our day-to-day debates, I'm asking that we stop tonight's debate and continue tomorrow because there's a lot more deputies who have been reported, and we're giving our colleagues the opportunity to maybe give up some of them. And we have other points on the agenda. So, I'm asking the president to call off tonight's debate and let's continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52655	It'll be 19 hours in a few minutes. We still have 30 MPs. I will pray tomorrow for a brief discussion, for more concentration, without numerous replicas and for it to work both the important topics and the seriousness of the topic. And let's continue tomorrow at 9:30 p.m., the first in line is Honorable Representative Lino Cervar. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52656	Mr. President, I can say two words or else I'll be looking on behalf of the club for 10 minutes. I mean, I want to make it very clear. I don't mind, you're the president and the chairman, but I think the budget debate was far more important. And today we've heard a lot of remarks about the SDP's presentation on the budget. But by half the night of that same day, there were very serious discussions. We worked till half the night. With all the replicas and all the conflicts. So I don't think this topic is more important than the state budget, by anything. Therefore, I believe that you can accept this session because you are the one who will respect the club's request. I just don't accept that being brought by me would tell you that it's a very important nervous system. Because if we could work on the budget for up to 24 hours, I don't see any work on this either. It's because you respect the HDZ Club's request.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52657	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52658	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate. Honorable representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52659	Mr. President, gentlemen of Television, colleagues and colleagues. Truth and truthfulness cannot be counted as political and media virtues, so can Croatian broadcasting. We can't compare politics and the media to testimony in a criminal trial where the witness is obliged to tell the truth, the truth and nothing else. A speech in politics and the media, so sometimes on television is similar, under the supposed signs of a "noble lie" when the truth cannot, cannot or must not be told. I agree or do not remind all of you that today in Croatia is mostly written about it, it is said about what is not behind it. Today in Croatia, it is written about it and it speaks about it because it has to be done out of someone's interests as well. It should have the guts to tell citizens that, in the imprecise struggle of political and economic elites for predominance in the media, as well as on Croatian television, media freedom, pluralism in the media, the disappearance of democracy, the disappearance of truth, the disappearance of autonomy in editorial politics. In such an environment of new aggressive owners, aggressive ideology is difficult for colleagues and colleagues, almost impossible to keep a journalist's head upright. Jumping out of the rules of play and behavior is very dangerous, especially in times when a man and a journalist are fighting for family survival. And you say whatever you want, he was absolutely right to imitate Cardinal Josip Bozanic when he told reporters in the summer, determine yourself, whether you are for principles or you are for ideologies. If you are to principles, then you must have your own attitude when talking about events and facts. And if you are for ideologies then you must know that in the last 15 years of existence, our country's survival has brought dissension among Croatian citizens, they have brought hatred, unrest and mistrust. They made the soul of Croatian citizens unhappy, young, poor and bitter. My colleagues and colleagues, this is our reality today. And for this reason, I think that Croatian broadcasting plays an immeasurable role in this, and that is why it needs to be supported and therefore it needs all the means to fight for its independence and for its freedom. So, despite some shifts, positive ones, which were made on Croatian television, I have to point to three disadvantages. You see, Mr. Director, the way to the truth, without pluralism, is not possible. Mr. Director, without full information from different sources, therefore without freedom of information there is no commonity in the country of Croatia at any human level, at any human level. I'm giving positive shifts to some political information shows, like Open Even, Sunday at 2, Konstraplan, In Srid, Deleted Space and Pyramid, but I can't give Mr. Director a positive assessment for Latina and the Central Diaries. Latina is a classic example of ideological hatred where hate speech and media mobbing prevail, which are the classic means of psychologically focused destruction of individuals, and ultimately, in physical, physical destruction of individuals. And it must be prevented by all means. The journal as the main informative emissions must be depolitised and absolutely pluralistic in its finals, which is not the case today. Any form of journalistic expression, whether it is news, whether it must always start with pluralism after reading the news. This means first, to hear the opposition, if necessary another member of the opposition, and the third must be a member of the government. This gives us pluralism because the newsreader has no copyright and exclusive right to comment on the news. It's a violation of duty and a violation of professionalism. Another thing, Mr. Director, my point is the lack of promotion of young people on television. They should be involved in all political shows. Because young people have something to say. They have 30% of the electorate's ideas, they have creation, they have new knowledge, they're more ambitious and they can certainly give way to success. And Mr. Director, we need to know that it's not enough that we only have the Parlaonics, that it's not enough for other TVs, Big Brother, but we really have to have information shows where they're representatives. I agree with Mrs Lugaric, who said, from the SDP, that she is proud to have succeeded with the piercing and the strands to introduce this mole to the town lists. But I disagree with that, because they will become... And that's not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we should have them in executive bodies, in the representative body and in all other state institutions. It must be a promotion of television and we must work hard on it. You see, SDP, which is good, it promotes a Scandinavian model, which means women run the main word, it's okay and it's commendable. I know there are men in the minority and they don't mean anything. But they're the main speakers and they're articulating that party, that's fine. And that's where we progressed to gender equality. But, gentlemen, both with them and with us, I must tell the gentlemen not to be angry and... Female and male senorita syndrome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that instead of an old-school politician burdened with various ideologies, we should give more space to young people who will offer a new tomorrow. And I have to say that young people are you who need to be voted for, and I have to be subjective. I'm going to vote absolutely for young people all the time. And thirdly, my third final remark is, Mr. Director, that we must find agreement on the emphasis on promotion, i.e. identity, Croatian identity, and that Latina is obviously not an example. You see, on television today, people who have emotional intelligence can work. We need to settle down, make one balance between the Tragists of the Homeland War where people lost their loved ones, where they did their best, lost their property, lost everything. We must have understanding for defenders, we must also have understanding on the other side, and people who come from that Yugoslav mentality. Why do we have to understand them? Because they had, they felt, they felt social justice. They had a secure salary, they had their own safe pension, and these people can't change that way, we need to understand them. And on the other hand, thirdly, we must give hope to the youth that at the end of the tunnel there is still a light of day, that is, our better future. I am deeply concerned that research has shown that only 60% of our young people are proud to be Croats. It's a disaster. We can't let that happen. Croatia will disappear. Why do we need such Croatia? Then why did these people die? It's the kind of Croatia. You can't give it on TV, and you can help us a lot. Man and people without identity are more easily bent, subdued, and won especially in the time of globalisation that pervades the culture of the people. The man with the identity is an equal negotiator. Now on the negotiations of the European Union, with the International Court of Justice in The Hague, because it is full of confidence and responsibility for its people and for all its citizens, regardless of their nationality and religion, and these people, which is of particular importance, are able to respect the identity of their counterparts from another country and to respect the rules of law, live honestly, respect others and give to each one their own. And in the end you see me very, very wrong. Here I am coach of the Olympic World Champion...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52660	Lock it down. Final sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52661	It's my fault that an anthem is played so that some people hold their hand down and others keep their hands up. I know it's a question...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52662	Mr. Cervard, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52663	... [[The speaker speaks out loud with the president, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52664	I beg you don't... my patience and my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52665	But we could learn something.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52666	You can't. Mr. Cervard, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52667	Thank you. So we're not supposed to study?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52668	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52669	We can't study. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52670	Learn the order.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52671	We don't have to study.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52672	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52673	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of Croatian television. I certainly join your appeal to continue today's debate in a calm tone and to focus first and foremost on professionalism, expertise and objectivity in reporting and what Croatia's television is missing and what it should be doing. But as far as professionalism is concerned, we know for ourselves that yesterday the suicide of late defender Ivo Bukovac and normally that we all express our condolences to his family, but we can't get over it, nor can we representatives from the Croatian Party club of rights for today's writings in daily newspapers who say, "From close friends of the family, we found out that they called Sladjan home all day from HTV to deny the claim that her father blew himself up with a bomb because of "Latinica" instead of expressing their condolences and helping her at the most difficult moment." And I don't think that we can go over this so easily, because of the fact that last night, I saw the New Television contribution, and I watched "The Dnevnik" of Croatian Television, the second part was New Television, and at the end of "The Diaries" of Croatian Television came forward, and the phone turned on the daughter of the Croatian defender who committed suicide, Sladjana. So this is a very dangerous thing that is written in the press, and then he would beg in that sense that both the State's Attorney's Office and the competent services take action, because there's really a word like today's press, because then it would be a crime. But I'm saying, let's figure it out and continue a peaceful debate based on professionalism, expertise, objectivity and in what tone President Parliament has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52674	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52675	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of Television, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second day we're discussing two reports of Croatian Radio Television, and I would say financially, and I would start with "Latinica" and I would say after all of these yesterday's discussions that this show was not an accident and that it was deliberately planted just before yesterday's start of the report on the work of Television to actually focus on this show and that all those who were through these discussions and looking back on that show would essentially be pummeled to the television program, editors, directors, and then all of this later got the dimension that it was actually an attack on Television and trying to change. I think that's one scenario to me, Latina is the last one in a row. "Latin" has been on a lot of issues in recent years, but this last one's out of line, and now we're rightly attacking all of that show. Because it is unacceptable what the show said and how it was talked about the first Croatian president. However, I will return to what TV means is and should be and what was said yesterday, it is public and it is national. And now, through several examples, I would try to prove that it's not exactly like that, because if Television is a public medium and if it's national, then it has to mirror, in a way reflect the worldview of the majority population, the majority people. This majority people are Croatian, this majority people are Catholic, and your programs are going from a different direction. Yesterday I told the people that you were a SDP bulletin and I believe that you were actually the entire Croatian television programme mirrored by another world-wide mirror that is not majorityed and that in fact Croatian people and all citizens who think differently, and they are basically terrorised by one world-wide mirror being imposed by a minority. And that's why I'm protesting, and that's why I won't support your program either, or the financial report I mentioned yesterday, that it's been cut. Here's a few examples of how TV when it's present is misrepresented. There was a memorial of the funeral remains of the victims of communism on Macela, your television was quite present at that moment and I would be pleased with that, but the way it showed was quite something else. It mentioned that they were victims of the Yugoslav People's Army, which is incorrect. Then the Yugoslav People's Army was gone. At the ceremony, he was a representative of the government who was also a sponsor and was a representative of the parliament. No government representative or representative of the Parliament has been seen in this entire imagery. You said yesterday that the Program Council and editors, that journalists have freedom and that you don't watch the shows before later. Well, then I wonder who's looking at the inputs that are informative, which are of a political nature if someone doesn't do it before. Yesterday you said yourself that even this last "Latin" you watched, that you threw out some of the elements. But there's another story, you're not watching it, and then since you've estimated that the show that's been recorded already has more than a year, it hasn't been scheduled in the Homeland War for television shows yet. So there are many examples where you are actually misinformed, misrepresented and falsely depicting the present Croatian reality. Through your projects, programs are practically done a systematic counterfeit of a newer Croatian history. Through the mass of shows, the newer history of Croatia and the Homeland War is shown not to be true, but to make contributions of such a type going in that direction that appeared in 2000, detudmanisation. And now your detudgement is in effect, but not reaping results. On the day of all the saints, you were filming mass at the cross, but by no chance did your camera look back at Tudjman's grave, which was visited by people, and so came our cardinal himself. You didn't record that. Therefore, your cameras only go where you direct them, and then it is true and one illusion that some other things happen in Croatia, rather than those that are. That's why I think you didn't respect those principles about the public, about objectivity, and at least that you're national television. And that's why I don't think I can and won't vote, accept either of your reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52676	Replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52677	Thank you very much. I have to complete this part of Dr. Bacic's presentation about the burial of a thousand 163 victims in Macele. Namely, the news in the journal is typical news that shows that Croatian television ends the present painting of our past and tries to determine our future. In fact, a thousand 163 dead people were killed after World War II ended. The massacre was carried out under the auspices of the Croatian government and with the financial assistance of the Croatian government. That fact was skipped in the news. The funeral was made in the organization of this Parliament in collaboration with the associations. That news has also been skipped. So it was supposed to be a liturgy ceremony. It was a historic sacrifice ceremony. Not the Yugoslav People's Army as they wanted to reverse history, but the victims of communist terror, the UN founded by the criminal Broz Tito, who founded the UN to get rid of political opponents. This is an example of how Croatian television has a very powerful influence in ending the present and the past. And if she hadn't learned anything from yesterday's debate, we see, Mr. Pero Kovacevic quoted, pressure on the family yesterday's dead defender. We have information that Ms. Editor Branka Simic pressured her daughter who works on HTV and wouldn't allow it and told her if she said it was because of Latina, you'd be flying off the television. So this is proof that from yesterday's debate gentlemen and ladies learned nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52678	Replicate response, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić. Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52679	Well, I thank my colleague for actually supplementing this piece of Macelj, but Macelj was just, I say, one icon was in a way that actually showed all the truth about our television. Which, whenever she is present, actually interprets reality in her own way. So I'd say one more thing that I forgot, so I'll use this answer to the replica. The unacceptable thing is the attitude of television to the majority Catholic people, on Big Lady's day they carry the mass not to the 2nd as usual, but to the 1st, and then interrupt it at 12 o'clock. That's inadmissible. That's inadmissible. It just says how they treat the people they live on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52680	Thank you. HRT Chief Director Mirko Galic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52681	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to say that respect for the dead, every dead man is bound so much that we let his family and his friends bury him in peace. We didn't respect it last night when we constructed the story of responsibility for us here and Croatian television for the death of a man. I deeply regret his fate and death, regret it man, regret him volunteer and fighter for Croatian freedom and Croatian state. I regret the father of our employee I took to work. And that's why we need to wait for the truth, not go hasty and not use that death for any reckonings with anyone. I don't want the bill. Last night, it was said that we were directly responsible for his death because he killed himself after "Latin." Now we're responsible for putting pressure on his family to give a false statement about his death. I ask this High House to wait and, if necessary, to examine all the elements of the responsibility of my associates or mine to discuss it with all the means of investigation available. But let's not for the purposes of this conflict, enough of the topics on which we're fighting, enough of the accusations that haven't been proven that we're using something else that I think commits us, respect for the dead, to end any debate here and this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52682	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52683	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct Mr Galic's incorrect claim that yesterday was debated in this House about the tragic death of a Croatian defender. In fact, there was no debate in this House yesterday or anything other than the read message read by Mr Loncar and after that the debate was concluded. So don't insinuate in front of the Croatian public something that didn't happen. Just reading a message of a tragic death with a statement from his family saying that the saying was that they were the consequences of short-term shows that he couldn't stand anymore. So you should point out or say what Mr. Lonchart read in the message.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52684	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52685	Very briefly, Mr. President, I think this has to be fixed. So Mr. Galic said that we constructed that the cause of death was this and that. That's completely incorrect. We just read on another television, on their teletext news that was what it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52686	Third correction, honourable representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52687	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm also correcting the inaccuracies of the principal that we've constructed for the murder of the late Eve. We're just asking to check what's written in today's press, and you published it last night at the end of Croatian TV's "Dnevnik" that Croatian television published, New TV published one thing, Croatia's second and today we're reading what's in the press, so we want only the full truth from the HSP club, and if it's true that pressure is done then it's a criminal offense and I call on the state attorney to do his job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52688	Next correction, Honored Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52689	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have three brief corrections. First, Mr. Galic is not true that at least the HDZ club used this, and moreover, it is agreed that we will not even talk about it, let alone abuse it. Secondly, it's not true that we're in conflict here, we're simply doing our job that's been entrusted to us, but inside that job, I guess we're at least certain that we have the right to talk about your business, and the third one sounded nice what you said, but unfortunately you broke it last night because last night everyone who had the opportunity to see a sad look at a girl who forgives the cynical commentator who before that announces it I think it's morale at the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52690	And the last correction, the esteemed representative of Jagoda Majska. What? ... You're giving up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52691	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. This debate on the Croatian Television Programme Council, Croatian Radiotelevision, will highlight that recently we have witnessed a series of internal editorial bickerings and accompanying suspensions on Croatian television. I am sure that a large part of this is the cause and for a long time the complete dislocatedness of consciousness, the responsibilities of individual editors and their journalists who are working on programme disinformation clearly opt for greater interests, especially when it comes to Croatian defenders, is precisely the most responsible for creating an independent Republic of Croatia. I believe that the relationship in the reporting of Croatian television and towards Croatian defenders most often in the context of tragic events and in the rest of the Croatian public is causing a sufficient amount of prejudice which can later be difficult to change. In no way do I want to enter the Croatian TV's software editing policy, I believe that it is understandable in itself to present information as well as to provide maximum information content to its viewers, especially with regard to thematic and content of one of the most sensitive groups of Croatian defenders and members of their families. I remind myself that the Law on Croatian Television itself requires permanent, true, impartial, timely, timely public information on facts of public interest, impartial processing of political, economic, social and other issues, enabling the equal interface between the views of different sources and the content of information before publication, and in accordance with recognised standards of independent journalism. Providing sometimes a series of unverified information about Croatian defenders, the accompanying contributions are often used by unsettled disturbing content Croatian television is actually further disinforming viewers by denying the argumented display of the real situation. The saddest example of reporting of such species was seen in April of this year when the cameras of Croatian television regularly monitored the attempt to self-incinerate Croatian defenders in... at the Parish until the moment it's the same with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wasn't taken to a hospital facility. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] We must not forget that only two days after this sad spectacular performance, the second Croatian defender in Sukosan is clearly educated by this contribution shown in all the central journals, and thus Croatian television has indeed committed suicide by self-burning. So one of the latest episodes of "Latinica" called "PTSP disease or deception" as if it aimed at the start of a new persecution, reportedly regrets Croatian wartime military invalids. Contentfully left even more bitterness in the entire defence population, although the announcement of this topic itself has caused the defence population's attention with the desire to break down certain prejudices that unfortunately still exist in the part of the Croatian public today when it comes to Croatian defenders who suffer from PTSD. Fully negatively focused reports and unprofessionally suggestive conclusion by Mr. Latin and his editorial associates came to light with the most painful framework without any clear conclusion. Despite being in due course about a year ago... The Republic of Croatia has directed as a roof association of Croatian military disableds from the Homeland War, directed the director of Croatian television to Mr. Galic as well as the editor-in-chief of the information programme to Mr. Vladimir Roncevic for three programme cycles on Croatian military disabled people and ways of achieving their rights, and we believe that the defence population would show interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until today, we haven't even got an answer. If we have referred to the wrong address the materials recorded on the victims, on the treatment, on today's life of these tormented people, these wounded bodies and those fates that follow them, haven't we earned to this day or the answer? Instead, Croatian television conducts systematic disinformation of Croatian defenders, their families, as well as of the entire Croatian public knowingly manipulative and completely unargumented reports, which, in a panic way, show the defence population almost and exclusively in a negative context, as a population that is followed exclusively by problems, which needs to be stegmatized and systematically socially avoided and that there is no conclusion with this I want to look back on yesterday's memorialization of massacres in... 47 victims of the massacre, representatives of the president of the state, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, President of the Croatian Parliament, do these victims not deserve 2 seconds in the information programme of Croatian television with these people present? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tell me what such a program policy is, and I am aware that my colleagues have already said enough and guided from where the wind blows. We're aware, but do you really think we're blind and not seeing or not hearing what you're doing, how you're doing and how you present yourself? But I want to fence on this. Do what you do. You also call these distinguished MPs, embarrass them and muddle them, and so far you have not said in any answer how much your incomes are and what the Croatian people are paying you for. And do you really want us breaking the laws inviting the people not to pay more TV subscription, which would be illegal and we don't want that. And answer that to the Croatian people as you were aware of the amount of income you received from the Croatian representatives. Is that a secret? Is that a state secret? If it's a secret we'll take down the secret in this House and we want to hear really how much your receipts are in the net amount, she's gross and she's all the other ones along with all the journals, the use of official cars and everything else you use, your editors and directors. Finally, when we watch the entertainment shows of Croatian Radio and Television no more regional festivals, no domestic Croatian folk music, everything is covered with foreign, foreign songs, songs from Serbia, songs from Vojvodina, Macedonia. Tell me if Croatian creativity has no place on Croatian television. Tell me if really these young people who have already gone to the side and worshiped the most that import of ham music have not also seen Croatian television come to such very initiatives to listen to something other than Croatian. Tell me if you don't have responsibilities in this regard and really honestly if you want to face all these problems that I've listed, I think it's time that you clearly admit that you're in deep sin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52692	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52693	Here, as I read if it comes now for the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio and Television Miroslav Škoro, it is obvious that this Croatian creation will certainly be properly represented to Mr. Djakic, but I did not mean to report any higher than this remark. Let us try to accept this message from Mr Galic, and let us not cauterize the fate of an unfortunate Croatian defender and Croatian citizen, Mr Bukovec. We all regret it the same way, no more Mr. Djakic than me, no more you gentlemen representatives from another citizen of the Republic of Croatia. However, Mr. Bukovac did not kill himself for "Latinica" but for PTSD. "Latin" is a show and PTSD is a disease. PTSD isn't a hoax. No one would kill themselves for the show. They kill people for some other reason that eventually society doesn't help them. What happened in it now can only be suggested but the light motive of this whole debate on "Latin" and Tudjman is to draw attention from something else, to try to homogenize again, not to be able to solve opportunities in Latina and perhaps on Croatian radio. And if we were hypocritical, because I wasn't on the right, I noticed that when your party's senior officials proposed or spoke in interviews that the late President Tudjman would have been advised to defend himself in The Hague in case he was charged with any of you gentlemen reacting. What is certainly good in this debate is that after this and the debate in Parliament, regardless of what we perform as the 150 editors-in-chief of Croatian Radio and television, they will no longer be only black or only white, because life is not only black, nor white, nor just white as the life of the late President Tudjman was neither only black nor only white.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52694	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52695	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, I must argue that by calling on us not to discuss the subject any more and not to talk about national creations and values Mr. Cain himself has potentiated the debate, as have all those speakers who in the past yesterday's debates have potentiated certain things. In fact, did I say something wrong when I claimed that there was no national content or national creation on Croatian television? Well, that's a fact and it's true, you can't see it. Everything else can be seen except regional festivals and all other creative works that produced our environments or regions. They are not on Croatian television, they are not represented. Where is folk music, Croatian folk music on Croatian television? It doesn't exist, it's forgotten. Isn't that a national interest? What's it supposed to be? If Ceca, if Brena and others are for you people's creation, then really this Croatian television should have moved somewhere else, maybe to Novi Sad or Belgrade. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then they're not for this area, then they need to show the program there. I hope Mr. Cain that when you stop the debate wanting to repeat that comparisons of this or that I gave a clear comparison when after showing the full details of the events in the attempt... in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second day defense attorney actually killed in the same way as these... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and helped him get his disease from the show to the finish line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I was talking about if you understood me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52696	Second replica, respected representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52697	Mr. President, here's before I replicate my colleague, Djakic. I'm glad that colleague Cain from the assembly bench today spat on what he was saying yesterday at the pay phone. You were a colleague of Djakic's earlier talking about this unfortunate defender who killed himself. I have a text message here that I received from a friend of mine. Although I believe him I went alone, I examined the teletext Croatian television, there was no news. It was where I looked, on RTL. In the apartment I led my dear colleague, Croatian Television Director Maria Germanic, who went and saw the news and had no objections. So today's speculation about this is completely declassified. The second thing, Croatian television last night in the report I don't know anyone, some of whom I've seen around the House also said at the beginning of his report that the overnight show whose name I don't remember also affected this unfortunate defender in Clay killed himself. Since I no longer have the right to talk in our basic act, let us conclude this debate. First, everyone who respects the truth, morals and justice should enter Crimea on Croatian television. Police, let the Financial Police, State Audit and those who support what is happening there enter an independent home and foreign auditory house and let what is done on Croatian TV be done and that we finally get how and how the external production comes on Croatian television. I'm particularly interested in being a former television journalist who gets money from private production shows from phone calls, and we know that every phone call is 3.66 kuna. Maybe I'm wrong, but I'd be glad to see that print and so on and so forth. And I hope Mr.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52698	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52699	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I have to replicate my colleague, Lonchar. He forgot that in his performance today, Mr Galić wanted to turn his guilt on both the Croatian Democratic Community Club and all those who discussed the counter-programme and financial report of the Croatian Radio and Television where he stressed that yesterday we discussed the event from Glina and that we wanted to point at the death of the Croatian defender and volunteer. I made it clear and loud that it was a lie. If it hadn't happened yesterday, except for your reading the message there was no debate, and your message clearly states what happened and what could have caused it. So for these possible reasons, I call on all the services to do their job and to find the culprits or those who have indicated this event, this sick man and the perpetrators. But still, I haven't heard from Mr. Galic that you've stood up and answered my question how many of your receipts are? That's what we want to know. And we want to know for the sake of the Croatian public not only like those who sit in the Parliament. But also as viewers and as those who pay the subscription. Once you get rid of it and tell the Croatian public and tell us as representatives how much you receive that we can compare it to ours. Well, maybe we'll raise our wages then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52700	Third replica, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52701	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to replicate my colleague on the subject of Croatian television towards the Homeland War. This year, a month and a half ago, was held in Croatia, in Zagreb, the Second Croatian Congress of Military Medicine with International Participation and under the auspices of the Croatian Academy of Medical Sciences, the City of Zagreb, the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence. The topic was medicine in the Homeland War. Nine hundred doctors came, nine hundred gentlemen dear from all over the world and the Republic of Croatia. Croatian television did not find it appropriate to inform the regiment that 900 doctors discuss the application of experiences from the Homeland War in the organisation of health care in extraordinary conditions, in the peace missions in which the Republic of Croatia participates, about the medical aspects of modern terrorism which is one of the greatest security threats to the modern world and our country about emergent, re-emergent zoonoses, influenza of birds, past, future and present. Mr. Galic, you were also informed by the president of Congress. You've been notified in writing. All these doctors from our country were volunteers of the Homeland War. And that is why I really think and it is the least said by an unprofessional procedure where it is not recognised the importance of such an event that exceeds not only the characteristics of a professional congress but also a national event with topics that are truly valuable, and 900 professional people have gone through the city of Zagreb undetected. Gentlemen experts, professors, doctors from the world, from our country, between us and Professor Hebrang, Professor Prgomet, Professor Cosic and others from the Republic of Croatia, from around the world. 900 experts were undetected in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52702	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52703	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will answer to Mrs. Carmela that it is not just 900 experts, volunteers. When they are not to recognize imagine how many times and how many places not all associations are recognized when holding their meetings, their competitions. HVIDRA has 1200 participants in sports activities and competitions in Sibenik there is no news. We're just mortals. We're highly educated. And we can say yes. They don't respect us. But why don't these experts respect the world's voice? And that's the question. We're humble and ordinary, so we kept it quiet, but we can't keep our mouth shut anymore. And we can't tolerate what we're not paying you for. I would like to stress that, systematically, Croatian defenders, as I have said, have been portrayed as criminals and people with some bad perceptions that have no place in today's society, and all of this seemed to me in common with the criminalisation of the Homeland War that was conducted systematically on Croatian television and which has greatly helped Serbian spies write accusations and Croatian television is still helping them with this, in fact. But everything is instructed and clear and loud as the former justice minister said: "a great and small criminal organization". Well, that's how today stands in the charges of a criminal organization, association in crime. Those are your words and so are they... The indictment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52704	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment's time, we will interrupt the debate on this item of the agenda and in accordance with Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the 17th session agenda
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52705	We're continuing the debate. Replica, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to replicate to Mr. Djakic, and I'm going to sort of explain a few things, which is that here is actually the thesis, that only because of one Latina show, some of the things that she listed happened. It is the self-inflation of the Croatian defender, the suicide of our defender from Glina, the late Ivo Bukovac. I claim that this is not only because of this show, but also because of the various other shows that were shown in this regard on Croatian television. I can only mention here as a result of this is the arrest of General Gotovina, the reading of the indictment in The Hague and other things. Many are probably unhappy with how many shows on Croatian television show about the Homeland War, about Croatian defenders. We can realize that these shows are very, very small. It's certainly unacceptable for Mr. Damir Caine to say that there are some vultures here on these cases. It's absolutely inadmissible and we are against such rhetoric in this House. We show deep respect and compassion for the family of Mr. Defense Officers from Clay Ivo Bukovec. And as the head director of Croatian television said, we should at least walk off with dignity for a while. But Mr. Chief Director, your show last night, or the journal of Croatian television, has actually initiated all of this, not us here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52707	Replica response, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52708	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will answer Mr. Trčević where he says that not only the Latina's shows have initiated such events, such tragic events in fact. I agree with you that a number of other counter-defense populations of emissions, indications, sayings, conclusions, misrepresented or presented announcements have caused a huge dissatisfaction in the population of Croatian defenders. It has caused a number of even more sick people who are actually vigorously protesting against this way and the work and treatment of Croatian television according to the population most responsible for the creation of Croatian homeland. Also, there is no memory from the screen, there is no show about Croatian defenders and the proposals we send to accept them have no answer for a year, no words, let alone letters. And we can therefore clearly conclude that Croatian television is strictly working on damage and against Croatian defenders by wanting them as well as the victorious Croatian army as a whole to the maximum black as its chief of staff of the late President Tudjman. Together we're actually probably a criminal organization for you as well as for those not on the other side. And if that's what you think when you can put a program like that down and let it happen. How else to call you at all than to identify you with the left who constantly calls both Tudjman and the defenders and...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52709	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. He's giving up. Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52710	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen from Television, colleagues and colleagues. Last year, probably at this similar time, perhaps a little later, we also had a discussion on the same subject. I could discuss my contribution from word to word again, I will not, of course, be whole, but I will remember the beginning. At first, I quoted Mrs. Tanja Šimić's statement, and I think that her function is called program director or something like that, which was then miraculously surprised in the morning list, which is why one part of the public, the population attacks Television because there is no culture, no education, and there is no education, and there was approximately her answer, so we didn't have to educate, there were enough other places and institutions. I then advised the lady to read the law on her own house, so the house she works in. I don't think the lady who was told to this day has done it, so I'm going to remind myself once again of some articles of the law, and of course I'm going to stick to most of the culture that is my area. Mr. Director said yesterday at the outset that he hoped we'd discuss some fundamental issues. Well, basic issues of work, therefore, and reports, of the Programme Reports, because I am talking about it, Croatian broadcasting is in my opinion the criteria of objectivity and responsibility. The criteria bear objectivity, and objectivity supports responsibility. However, what happens to us when articles such as Article 3 of the Law are not respected when it is said that independent production companies that will record the emissions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will be selected on the basis of a public tender. I'm interested in what this is chosen from private productions based on a public competition, because if something is chosen based on a public competition, then I really don't know how to choose those soap operas that this people ice. I'm afraid television has underestimated a large part of the population of culturalists, intellectuals, or if we want to tell that middle-class citizen who has the right to watch something else, something more overvisive, something more normal, something smarter than what we're serving, and I don't know if it's being served or whether it's chosen on the basis of a public tender. Next, what are we actually watching on this TV from culture? No more recorded dramas, no more specialized music shows. We're watching concerts at some kind of deaf hour of the night, half two, two. We watch the opera in sequels, every week one act, like it's a soap opera. Those who are interested in the opera really don't want to see one act every week. Either give them a complete opera or shut it down after all. So there's no living culture, and is there any in the shows that deal with problems? There is. But in what way? One single political show, and that's "Open" once had a topic of culture. Why? Because she smelled like a scandal. It was about the Law on Theatres that we discussed here and, frankly, it was very voluntary for us to discuss the subject. It really seems to me to be a ghetto that doesn't have any public television in the world, mainly in Europe, in this part of Europe whose programs are available to us if we don't have all the plates we should have. So yesterday we heard from Mr. Director that he doesn't have these or those powers, that the HRT Council also doesn't have these or those powers, and then I wonder, gentlemen, who has any authority for any criteria or liability on that television? Why are you all hiding behind someone unnamed? Yesterday we asked the question of who's responsible for Latino, the Latino we discussed yesterday, you didn't answer. Today I ask the question who is responsible for the complete lack of culture on Croatian television? I don't know if anyone's gonna answer me. We also naturally asked as a parrot a question about the Lord's receipts from the so-called so-called. independent productions that TV buys, we also didn't get an answer. So I think it's precisely the question of the selection criteria, and then the responsibility of the fundamental question. There was a word here about a law that wouldn't allow this or that. Well, I don't know why we don't change that law. If the gentlemen of the former government have changed him twice during their term of office, and twice at the very end, it seems to me on the last day of their term of office, I see no reason why we would not change a law that is clearly not good. Just so someone in the world doesn't call us and say we're not Democrats? Well, that's the floscule, gentlemen. It's a blur, it's a false understanding of democracy. If something's wrong, it needs to change. Neither the law nor this principalship nor we here are any protected animals. And I repeat again, when Mr. Ivica Racan is here, not to me, but to all of us, he threatened to have far-reaching consequences if we touched that law, I asked him who I should be afraid of, his finger, his television, his principalship or the white world. I'm not afraid of anyone. But gentlemen, this is pointless. We are not satisfied with the programme in any segment, not in culture, not in politics. No layer of this population is satisfied with the program and if you are unable to work it so that at least partially satisfy all possible needs, then gentlemen stand down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52711	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52712	A colleague, Martincevic, said the former government, so the party-run coalition, has twice changed the HRT Act in its term. That's not true. In a year, they changed the law twice, and on the agenda came the last item of the agenda an hour before Parliament was released, to vote on members of the HRT Programme Council. So that's the full truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52713	Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52714	I'm going to replicate to my dear colleague, Jagoda Martincevic, Mayo. You were a journalist like I was, and I deeply respect journalism. In journalism never much freedom, but let's look at what Croatian television looks like today. I won't generalize. There are a vast majority of honest, honest, honest people, especially journalists and editors. But the wheel is run by people whose idea is the journalism of the Marine Christmas. They're press gunmen who've been raving hate and killing the truth until 94. These journalists need to look at their early work, what they did, and how they shape the Croatian public today. Therefore, these journalists have special contracts and these stimulating contracts, and here is the director of Croatian radiotelevision persistently denying this Assembly, and we know that the founder of Croatian radiotelevision is the Croatian state, and this Parliament in Croatia is the state according to the Constitution. I asked him a question four times yesterday, his colleague Rozic asked him a question, a fellow Letica asked him a question to answer, these gentlemen with special contracts that attack and spit on politicians in particular for parliamentary deputies to answer their salary. To say which MPs are ordinary, I don't say that, and you know who has a higher salary, which are those who have 16 thousand kunas, etc. etc. And finally, a colleague of Maja, Croatia's broadcasting is only Croatian by its name, and by all accounts, it is Byzantine and Palanic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52715	Replica reply, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52716	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I might answer my colleagues to Lonchar, but not myself, but I'd quote the media not to say that we're just attacking TV, but look how the media is talking about the media. "The Morning List", Croatian TV with a serious music program and even the one it produces in its own production acts as a waste that is solved at a deaf time of night. The Deaf Age for Dora Pejačević, although classical music and in the world slightly loses the race with other types of television content, should not give up trying to make the quality of its representation in our television programs more appropriate. And now I'm going to mention the incriminating Latino, but not about a few presidents. Anyway, two weeks ago, "Latin" had a title, if I remember correctly, "The dumber, the better." There were talk of soap opera, yellow press, models, football players, etc., etc. In this "Latinica" is the contribution the editor ordered with a saying the journalist said that soap operas his own house buys are garbage. Excuse me, Mr. Galic, how do you allow the shows of your own house to talk about the shows you show to be trash? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52717	Next replica, Honored Representative Miomir Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52718	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd be replicating two points from the presentation of a respected colleague that I actually fully agree with, but she touched two points that she would like to expand a little bit. First of all, the question is public in relation to commercial television. It is a really basic question because I think there is a mix-up and there is a mix-up with those who run Croatian television, and this is well seen from the report. Because they're constantly and persistently comparing themselves to commercial television, and that's why they want to prove it, and it means they're good. But that's not a question at all. Look anywhere in the world where there are, and it's practically the whole free world, where there are commercial and public television. Only when you're somewhere in the world, and you can see it with us, unfortunately not so public. You turn the channels on TV, I assure you you'll recognize when you get on public television. Because she is different, she serves other criteria. Its purpose is not to earn money from its owners, to provide maximum wages and privileges to its employees, but it has some purpose because it is public television, because someone else sees meaning in it and supports it. When it's national, and we've heard a lot about it, especially. Unfortunately, in our case, it's lost. There are no programming differences between public and commercial television. There's an advantage to public television because it's a force of law, which is not the case with all the other public televisions in the world. By force of law, we give these people advantage in the beginning because they are paid in advance to compete with commercial television. I think we really need to touch it on base and then turn to what public television is today and what it was. I ask myself sometimes, there's something wrong when I'm proud to say there's no TV in my house. Because as part of this society, I'm part of that and that kind of television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52719	Dear Representative Lino Cervar, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52720	Mr. President, I would like to supplement the replica with the report of the IREX International Non-profit Organisation from Washington, which in the 7th month evaluated the media of 20 Southeast European countries and found that in Croatia 150 TV and radio stations, and in 13 daily newspapers and more than 900 different publications there is a visible, noticeable lack of balance and objectivity in reporting. And that it is still a painful point of Croatian journalism and media. TV editors lack autonomy in decision-making. The Programme Council is not independent; it has the appointment of members of the Electronic Media Council; it is not transparent enough. Is that true or not? It was published in July, "The Morning List".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52721	And the esteemed representative, Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52722	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd replicate to my colleague because as far as I can tell from all your discussions, this is what you're doing on TV. I don't, not on TV on TV or what we're gonna call it, it doesn't matter. Gentlemen, visiting in one Latin, they all mention Latin. Visiting a Latina and I had a chance to be a guest of Latina and see one contribution. It was by chance Mr. Sanader's property that was then censored. And I was dissatisfied with that program at the time, and I was dissatisfied with the way it was censored and I was pretty angry. Normally, like all of us who are at some point unhappy with some show. But since you have everything, you have a state's attorney's office, check it out. You've got audit houses, check it out. And for them, turn them away. You've got enough hands, change them. Go ahead, finish your chase on TV. There's no problem at all, you change the law, and then you wait to see what Europe says.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52723	Answer me, please. Replica reply, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52724	Well, look, Mr. Capralevich. Since yesterday, we've been listening to some kind of military cry here, militant. One of them said yesterday we're taking our heads off, today you're talking about some kind of chase. I don't know, I think I'm a little old for that kind of thing, and I hope my colleagues are too. That's not the point. It's just about you and our understanding of democracy. Why shouldn't we be criticizing the program? And if we don't get it, I said if we don't get the right answers, someone has to answer for something, for Christ's sake. And a name and a last name. If we don't get them, I told you gentlemen, then you're incompetent and stand down. If we get them, we can still discuss them, but I don't see any reason why we shouldn't have this kind of conversation, dialogue, debate or what. However, it seems to me and I will say it again, that we have not received answers so far. In addition to general, apart from floscul, we have not received any concrete answer for someone's editorial responsibility, for failure or for lack of something in the programme. I have a name and a last name, and I'm talking to him here. In front of the whole public. I hope the TV gentlemen have their names and names, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52725	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52726	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Maja Martincevic, you have expressed the intentions of HDZ in your presentation completely hidden, open and clear. You said, we're not satisfied with the program, and that's why you gentlemen, because we're not satisfied with the program, please stand down. And if you don't want to stand down, then we'll change the law and most of the votes bring a new one, so you'll be replaced by that law. And this new law should bring of course new people to Croatian broadcasting. Miroslava Škoru is probably the director, Dujmovic, as editor-in-chief, and then Croatia will finally have TV according to the size and taste of HDZ, about the level at which you hold the debate on HRT. You can do it. You've got most of it, you can make it. You can also be heroic today that it's none of your business what the democratic world will say about it. But we know that, too, and we've experienced what your relationship to the requirements on the outside is like. So you've been heroic for quite a while and quite loud, until you've given in to all these demands. Some of you even rushed to meet before they were set up. Gentlemen, your intention here is quite clear and should be made clear. You want to enslave the party's Croatian radio television. I have no illusions that you will succeed, listening to how you argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52727	Answer to, peace please! Order! Replication response, respected representative. Order! Strawberries Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52728	Well, you see, Mr. Stazic, while we're at it with names. You mentioned Mr. Škor, Mr. Dujmic. No, if it were up to me, maybe I'd put the late Ludwig van Beethoven at the head of Croatian radio, if you'd like to talk about it that way. Or maybe one of the Croatian young intellectuals. Yeah, intellectuals who would have criteria and know responsibility. But other than that, you can't accuse me on behalf of my party. I spoke by name and last name like Jagoda Maja Martincevic. I don't want to assume anyone else's party to tear down ad hoc, but if something isn't right, let's change it, after all you've changed, you've changed the law twice in one year, so why don't you let the ruling party change something in the name of the improvement as well? For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52729	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52730	... President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives of Croatian Radiotelevision, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] The year of the Lord 1991 after the occupation of Vukovar and in early '92. They could be seen here in Zagreb, and in other places Croatian graphics "The Vukovar of Saints", and some of the Vukovar defenders used to say that when the name Vukovar is mentioned it should stand still, in some cases it certainly is. The Croatian Parliament declared November 18th a day of memory of Vukovar's sacrifice in 1991. Before that decision, the town of Vukovar marked that day, on November 18th, 19th and 20th, with suitable programs dominated by the walk from the hospital to the memorial cemetery of the victims of the Homeland War, on November 18th, and we never counted how many people of goodwill, the admirer of the victim of Vukovar, were found in Vukovar. We simply expressed our gratitude to all who came to bow down to the victim of Vukovar and I am deeply and deeply convinced that in those days it can and must be that and only so. Some villains can say that Vukovar only remembers in those days. We do not think so, but we believe that all other concerns and stories about Vukovar should be left for the rest of the year and therefore this introduction, and in terms of Croatian-radiotelevision that, but Croatian-radiotelevision or more precisely Croatian television makes the exact opposite. Although the subject of this report is the period June 2004 is also repeated from year to year, so it was this year in 2005 that my memory was the freshest. Open, I think it was 17.1 from the Lion Hotel in Vukovar, and what did that turn into? First of all, some completely inappropriate to this date are participants, then the minority trial of the Republic of Croatia, which in Vukovar schools are separated, of course by national basis, are children's kindergartens, etc. Yeah, but why is that? Well, because someone demanded it, which the Republic of Croatia as a democratic state has enabled him, not how some want to display the octrophe. And now that's what these days are all about, and not even wondering who some of them are and who they're hiding from. Who cares about the ruined city, the so many killed, the missing, the exiled? Of course, that's where I turn off the other honorary participants on that show. Well, there is time for such stories all year round, not before those days and dedicated to those days. Not to mention standing in peace when the name Vukovar is mentioned, that you should take off your hat and that's one detail from that show. The second day of the second show, the second host, a lot of questions and answers, and who betrayed Vukovar, who sold Vukovar, where guns went and so on. I repeat the distinguished gentlemen from Croatian television all year round there is time to talk about it, I agree that these issues may require answers, it should be resolved, if something is problematic and questionable, but not that day and not in those days. Leave it for much higher things or leave it completely. I could point out more examples, I could name personal examples because I've acted as mayor of Vukovar for not a small number of years. Maybe it would be too subjective. I allow the claim that I view all of this with a special sensitivity but know it's not just my personal opinion, the opinion of many, almost most Vukovars, and not just the Vukovars. And let me just have one more personal detail. Two old people on the windows of their restored house with lit candles on it on 18.11. this year, who observe a memory column for someone else are just two more in that large number. To me, it's my friend's parents who disappeared in '91. And he hasn't been found yet, and that's exactly the day, so on 18.11. it was his birthday. This kind of story could be told to you by the Vukovars countless, and that's why all those who have passed the hell of Vukovar are lucky to have stayed alive, as well as those who truly respect the victim of Vukovar do not want such shows in those days. They consider inappropriate participants whose heart is in Kursumlia or Trstenik, while staying in Croatia only has a mere interest or a necessary evil for them and yet God forbid their children have to learn Croatian. The victim of Vukovar is too great and too sacred to be treated 14 years later. For all these reasons, they cannot accept the way Croatia-radiotelevision accesss the marking of the victims of Vukovar in 1991. And to end up moving away a little from Vukovar, last night's central "Dnevnik" began with about a sentence called "Mislave Who's Attacking Us?". That you know me very much like that question with... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52731	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52732	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the story before the fall of Vukovar is certainly a provocation or maybe printing a new history, but the perfection of HRT is a little higher, because when it comes to talking about HRT then the action plan of the type goes first the media lynch and discrediting the representatives, even the SDPs, although they are also normally representatives, of salaries, travel expenses, benefits, pensions, attitudes to work, etc. Secondly, the provocation goes through "Latinica" just before the debate to show that the fight against freedom of journalism and creativity has taken hold knowing that the SDP will not react. The third emphasis that this is actually a struggle between HDZ and SDP over the predominance on HRTV is that it has nothing to do with the quality of work and management, the distribution of subscription money, etc. Fourth, the charge that the ruling wants to bring down HRT exactly. Now the last "Latinica" is more of a rule than an exception with a visible intention to deal with all the most responsible for the creation of the Croatian state, especially Croatian defenders. The intention to bring down Parliament's reputation as founder of HRT, to avoid responding to employee receipts, to reveal secret contracts, etc. Croatia's Latin-type star, nepotism, excessively expensive external production, expensive and missed licensing programs, neglect of domestic production, increased number of employees, increased wages by 25%, travel costs by 1.1 million kuna, political manipulation looks... non-payment of liabilities, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52733	Second replica, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52734	By estimating Mr. Stengl I allow absolutely and accept his position, his opinion, and also the recommendation and objections that he has on account of the people of Croatia-radiotelevision. Unfortunately, I hope Mr. Stengl agrees with me that we can do it differently. Our citizens, colleagues and colleagues do not miss documentary films, there are neither music nor concerts mentioned a few minutes earlier, our citizens lack work and dignity. Hundreds of thousands of people in the Republic of Croatia have been living in extremely difficult conditions for years. They're waiting for their moment of happiness, but they can't wait. Many suicides, colleagues and colleagues are the result of a series of negative factors, and PTSD is just one of them. It may also be the media's fault for a part of this extremely depressing atmosphere in our country for the past few years, but colleagues and colleagues are not the main culprits, nor are they my Rijeka fishermen, or Slavonian peasants, or Zagreb workers. The main culprits for the situation in this country are us sitting in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian Government, in the bodies of the state administration because we did not provide citizens with a minimum of dignity. So, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you, please, those who have reported for this debate to minimise this torture, harassment and unnecessary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52735	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52736	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I fully agree that this is all a place. After all, we don't want to, we don't think any of us have the ambition to be an editor, but I just wanted to appeal to myself in those days, though, to have a relationship with Vukovar in those days to be what he deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52737	Thank you. The word was requested on behalf of the SDP Club by the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52738	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I am looking for a half-hour break so that the SDP Club can decide how it will continue to participate in this debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52739	Thank you. Easy, easy. The SDP asked for a break and explained why. The other one answered. Why? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, you have to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52740	We want to decide how we will continue to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52741	Thank you very much. DC, HSLS, LS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52742	The same way we're going to be able to see that which way we're going to take part in this debate. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52743	Okay. HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52744	Also, Mr. President, given the ongoing debate and the HSS Club is looking for a break to discuss how to continue to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52745	Thank you. HSP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52746	The same, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52747	IDS. The club needs to explain the reasons why she wants a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52748	Since the course of the debate has changed and we are now discussing the Croatian Radio-Television editor's programme, we must also have a break to determine ourselves after this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52749	Thank you. HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52750	Mr. President, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is also looking for a break because of an agreement to continue working on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52751	Thank you. Stanka 10 minutes The same? [[Intruder: We would too.]] Okay. Ten minutes off. At 11.13 p.m., follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52752	... We're moving on with the session. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] We're moving on to the club show. SDP representative club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52753	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club at its session for which we asked for a break has decided that it will not continue to participate in the debate on HTV because we do not want to participate in this hack that is taking place yesterday and today on HTV. We want to, we want to be clearly in front of the Croatian public from such behaviour and debates today in the Croatian Parliament as well as from the Satanisation of HTV. The debate on this subject has completely strayed from being. Unfortunately, neither yesterday nor today talk about arguments, but talk about labels, accusations up to the fact that the directorate of HTV is guilty of the death of one man. This hack is aimed at only one goal, which is to take over under the political control of HTV and bring down the HRT Council which has proved to be functioning in order to create public television. Because of this debate that was being held here today, the SDP Representatives Club will not participate in any further debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52754	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52755	Thank you, Mr. President. I again repeat and correct Mrs Opačić's incorrect quote once again when she said that it came to this House that the death of a defender with the Croatian Television programme was brought into connection with the death of a defender and that we constructed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52756	Please, peace, the MP has the right to correct the incorrect allegations. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52757	So that's... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52758	Please, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52759	So that's a completely incorrect quote. We read that news here yesterday on, on another television, on the teletext of another television exactly as it was there. So we didn't construct it. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52760	Thank you. And the second correction by the esteemed representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52761	I'll correct two allegations that you're running a hack on HTV. It's not a hickey, it's an argumentable debate about HRT's work. And another inaccuracies trying to take over HTV by HDZ. That's not true. We're just trying to rip the HTV out of the wing and influence of the SDP. This is your newsletter. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52762	The second HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Ivica Mastruko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52763	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club estimates that in yesterday's debate and this morning's debate there was a lot of bitterness, inappropriate dictionaries, intolerance and intolerance in these benches and in this House of Commons. That this has come to light in our debate. We estimate that what has taken place in the debates is behind the intention of a prominent political arbitration in television programmes. In fact, the debate shows by its consequences the wish, the wish, I don't know if it has any intention of replacing the director of HRT and, consequently, I assume the programming council. If this desire turns into an intention it is absolutely certain that this will cause serious political consequences not only in Croatia's information space but also more than that. Given that the Croatian People's Party wants not only to be cool, decor and scenography for the debates we attended yesterday and would not want to bear the consequences we will refrain from further discussion although today and at this moment we plead and represent the views we made yesterday, which is advocating for the pluralism of political, religious, secular and other ideas as provided for by the Law of the HRT, Article 7 and we will advocate because we also have objections to Croatian television programmes that Croatian television in its programmes cannot represent the views and cannot represent the interests of individual political parties, although in individual acts of those who participate in these programmes they can certainly represent the position or interests of certain world-wide or political ideas. Here we attended one actual evaluation of emissions and programs. We consider that evaluation a subjective category, and certainly not one that should be decisive. I suggest that the HNS Club finish the debate on these two reports and we vote and then the intention of voting will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52764	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52765	I'm a little surprised by the outreach of his Excellency in which he claims to be behind the debate, there's a intent on political arbitration. That kind of generalization is simply inadmissible. Here people are free to discuss a very important problem and this type of apriority attempt to shut their mouth is just as scandalous as yesterday's opening of a diary where Spritz asks, "Who's Mislave attacking us all there?" It's like it's some kind of gang that's attacking Croatian television. So what's this about, Excellency? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52766	Thank you. Please. Dear Representative Marko Širac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52767	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Maštruko said in his debate: "There was a lot of bitterness and intolerance in the debate." Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that's not true. The representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, as well as other representatives of other clubs in this House, held their views on the work of Croatian television and supported real and objective facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52768	Thank you. Third correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52769	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed Mr. Mastruk, where he claimed that he was asked by HTV to political representation or arbitration of only one political option. It's totally incorrect and it's insinuation, and I'll back it up that we didn't need political arbitration or representation at the time when you had total control of HTV, and then we won without HTV, without radio and without the emissions that would be in our favor. That's how it is today. We just want to correct what's going on in HTV, which is unconscious information, bias and objectivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52770	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. The next correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52771	Mr. President, it's not exactly insinuating that the goal is to bring down the director. We're looking for a persistent answer. Whose responsibility is it for the frequency of the show that offends the defenders? What insults all those who have finally welcomed the independent state of Croatia? There's no way we can get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52772	The next amendment, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's the truth, and I don't know what Mr. Representative read that a wish has been made here that might eventually grow in order to bring down the directors, etc., etc. There was a constructive debate here. The dissatisfaction of part of the representatives with such software, a programme of Croatian television that must primarily be public television. But it seems to me that here some political options have not yet moved beyond '45. Then they immediately declare every criticism by cutting their heads off, by moving someone and conspiracy, etc. And we also advocate Mr. Representative for pluralism of ideas, views and opinions. We are also in favour of implementing Article 8(1). The law on HRT which said that television is forbidden to encourage discrimination or hostility towards individuals or groups, and that is why...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52774	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Jure Bitunjac, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52775	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Mastruko said this, that yesterday's discussion of MPs, referring to HDZ, could come to the following, that it was political arbitration and the replacement of HRT directors. Mr. Mastruco, that's not true at all. Public television, founder of Croatian public television, is a Croatian state. We as advocates have absolute right, it is our duty to argue, each in his own way. Yesterday's debate and today's debate is critical but in no way goes the way you said. What bothers you personally is that it has been questioned with, some shows, I'm not speaking in general, it has been questioned by the public interest, i.e. National interest, and Croatian broadcasting as a public institution, as public television must promote the general values of Croatian society regardless of which segments, political etc. It was working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52776	Thank you. The Club of Representatives of DC, HSLS, LS, Honorable Representative Frano... You had that Mr. Lonchar, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52777	Mr. Mastruko said believe it or not: "This debate will have far-reaching consequences, not here but beyond.", finished quote. It's completely incorrect. And then two sentences after that in the same breath: "We ourselves have many objections to HTV programs.". Do you need this comment? You don't have to. But no one here is that anything wrong, wrongly done. I was Mr. Mastruco for that, against that unfortunate law. Look what he was saying when he was coming. The cause of all evils on Croatian television is the Law on HRT. So cocky as no one in the world is. We're just here asking to be answered what's with the finances in that house and what's with the program. We didn't generalize because they weren't all the same. There, I said just now there are a lot of honest and honest people. Maybe now a speech parabola. Once upon a time, I read an interview...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52778	Thank you very much. On a parable, not now, not now, Mr. Lonchart! Dear Representative Frano Piploić, DC, HSLS, LS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52779	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The DC Club, HSLS, LS holds that we should be able to discuss future issues in the context of the debate, i.e. the topic set here. This is 24 hours of everything we've been discussing here and we haven't received an answer, not only us but also the Croatian public on many questions, which is our duty to the directorship, or those who run Croatian Radio Television, are obliged to give answers that simply the street does not convince half-truths, semi-information, misinformation. So we need to be clear about everything we've been talking about here. Furthermore, all of us here as responsible persons should give an answer in which direction Croatian television should go through criticism, through the interpretation of everything, through our seeing everything we have, how we have experienced Croatian television. Whether it should go in the direction of fun and stupidity and whether maybe someday on Croatian television we will have one show type Big Brother, Big Granmother etc. So, I don't think it's anyone's wish to stop it. That the goal is also in this sense to consider these reports whether Croatian television has the strength, whether it has the personnel, whether it has the will to accomplish the basic task set before Croatia's broadcasting to be public... its citizens, to better promote and inform their citizens through cultural, educational, scientific and documentary contents of Croatian man and Croatian journalists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are fundamental things and through this we should look at the role of Croatian broadcasting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52780	Thank you. The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52781	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, here during yesterday and during today's debate, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives estimated that this debate had strayed from the agenda points. Points on the agenda is the report on the work of the Council of Croatian Television, Report of the Directorate of Croatian Television on the business of Croatian Radio Television. The debate that is under way is intolerant, consists mainly of accusations and lacks constructiveness. In such discussions, the Croatian Peasant Party does not want to participate. Of course, it is the right of every political option in the Croatian Parliament to see from its point of view both the editorial policy and the Croatian TV programme. However, these discussions must not be conducted in such a way as to make an impression in the Croatian public, not only in the Croatian Parliament, but in the Croatian public, they leave the impression that it is a hack with the aim and desire to deny the right to think freely, i.e. to deny the right of Croatian television to be public television. These discussions do not really lead to the desired goal and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party cannot participate in this. We have heard here that it has begun to read about how far Croatian television has been, it has been in Vukovar, it has not been in Vukovar, if it has not been in Vukovar, of course it cannot have support. However, we can compare the other presence. Well, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia was not in Vukovar for the anniversary, so we're not accusing him of that. So we are having a debate in a way that we all contribute together to better work of Croatian television, to the achievement of its message as public television, and not in a way that we deny everything that is not in line with our political vision and our political thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52782	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52783	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the incorrect claim made by Ms. Ljubice Lalić is that the debate has moved away from the topic set for agenda points. Namely, in the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme obligation and the implementation of the HTV programme orientations, it is clear in one paragraph on page 6, that the programme leadership should be continuously working on the programming scheme and... harmonising with the interests of all ages of the viewers who follow the programme. [[You don't understand.]] Comments from the audience of institutions and representatives in the Croatian Parliament warn that as many quality emissions as possible from culture, economy, education and science are needed. Therefore, this debate has been launched and do not claim that it went wrong, it is on the right track because it speaks of everything that the Programme Council has done in certain paragraphs and has drawn up as its further commitment and mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52784	Second correction, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52785	It's incorrect, as my colleague said, that this device went the wrong way and that it was... It was very constructive, but for those who want clarity, who want responsibility. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] It detected, this debate, constructive diseases, Croatian television diseases, and you seem to prefer flosscule because, like the SDP, you withdraw because you have no arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52786	Next correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52787	Mr. President, it is not exactly as the colleague said, that this debate consists of accusations and heifers, but of repeating the question of the type why HRT's house is aimed at demeaning, demeaning parliamentary representatives, what are the receiving of Latin TV stars, which is the goal of this HRT programme policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52788	Fourth Amendment, honourable representative Krunoslav Ćosic. Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52789	Mrs Lalic argued that the discussions so far lacked constructiveity. That's absolutely not true. She could neither see nor see, recognize all the constructive efforts of the majority in the Croatian Parliament to solve all the problems in Croatian broadcasting today in a constructive and cooperative way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52790	Fifth Amendment, Honorable Representative Ivo Lonachr.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52791	A colleague said that the debate had moved away from the topic in question and had discussed some of the accusations in this context. That's completely incorrect. I know what's bothering my colleague. She is troubled by the fact that her party is also responsible for this law of mass law that is nowhere in the world. Please, we have 11 members of the Programme Council selected from 28 thousand associations. Who are they representing? Who are they representing? You are to blame for this situation on Croatian broadcasting because we have a law that is nowhere to be found. So do you know who puts the editor-in-chief and director-in-chief on BBC? Do you know anyone on RAI? Do you know any public television? Take the Scandinavian lands, take Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands, take Sweden, but we have what no one has alive. I don't want anyone's control, I just want the truth. And to tell you the same thing, I haven't forgotten who chased me from 96 to 2000, but I won't let the persecutors pursue me again. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52792	Next correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52793	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll quote to my colleague: This debate is intolerant, lacks constructiveness, has strayed from the topic. It is not true, colleague Lalić, that all MPs are right and that is our task, that is, to discuss something that is good and not good. It's not true we're intolerant. Ma'am, we didn't step away from the topic, the HSS has moved away from the teachings of Stjepan Radic, who is an integral part of Tudjman's policy, and you are often running away from the real truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52794	Next correction, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52795	Thank you very much. I'll correct two allegations. One is that the debate is intolerant. That's not true. The debate is as it should be, critical as it is the only way to discuss these reports. The second is that it is a lack of freedom of the public, that is to say, to deny the authors the right to freedom to form their own emissions. I disagree because we are simply warning of something that is unacceptable that regardless of the freedom that the author may have, he must not insult the majority. We must not allow terror of minorities over most.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52796	Next correction, honourable representative Vladimir Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52797	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lalic said that we had moved away, claimed that we had moved away from what was scheduled for the agenda. But I must remind myself, however, that here, during the debate, only quantitative proportions have been discussed between individual content groups, which is a topic of the agenda, about types of software content, which is a topic of the agenda and about the intended range of their own and other meanings of audio visual works that are broadcast on broadcasting. In this House, too, all things of television and Croatian television were discussed financially, everything that interests all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and so does our parliamentary representatives, and I don't see where we have strayed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52798	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52799	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, it is not doubtful that the content of the debate can also suggest certain objectives behind such discussions, but interpreting the intentions, interpreting the motives for a particular debate of fellow MPs is indeed not correct. So on behalf of the HSP Club, I'm going to say something about our motives, so that would be quite clear, given that my colleagues before me were also talking about motives. First of all, there are no ladies and gentlemen of the law and neither is the Law on HRT that will make immoral people, who will make the miserably educated, who will make the diletaries professional, who will make fans and fanatics objective and benevolent. There's no law like that. As a club, we also think that there is no law that will curb the Balkan mentality of arrogance and untouchableness that in certain elements reigns on Croatian television. The fact is that the debate may have spread, that there were also some things here that are not strictly related to the Programme Council's reports, but are related to the programme, which does not concern certain things that are in these two reports, but is also the fact that this long-term discussion is actually a product of a long-term push under the rug of the role of Croatian radiotelevision in Croatian society. One huge amount of hypocrisy and I'd even say showing off the autocensorship and the media racket in this House for years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian party's law club and the representatives of our club are discussing within the framework of the existing law, not with the last objective of changing the existing law, but we are discussing reports from which it is apparent that the existing law has been violated, so we are discussing in the context of a report that is unacceptable to the existing law and from what it says in the law on the role of HRT to the financial aspects of that law. We are also discussing very prosaic questions that there is no answer here. On very specific and prosaic questions that are not answered here and Mr. Director of Croatian Television and his lady and gentlemen the editor-in-chief and editor of the information program here very calmly, already several, more than a dozen hours sitting, systematically listening to our comments and our criticisms and silences. Probably by following up on that Arab "dogs bark, caravan passes," and we're limiting ourselves to debate. The HSP club is against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52800	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52801	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. At first, I think Mr. Galic should not have accepted the request to speak about "Latinica" in the Parliament, regardless of what some media are saying about the non-professional show. In front of the Parliament no, on Croatian radio television yes. In front of the Parliament, he was to defend Croatian broadcasting, in Croatia he could attack editors as well. You can't sacrifice anyone or Latina so that everything on TV stays the same, no matter how much we all know our television is deeply divided. I am aware that each director is appointed by politics. So it is in Italy, so it is in the UK, so it is in Austria, so it was in Croatia until 90th, after 90th, 2000. That's how it's gonna be tomorrow if Miroslav Skoro shows up on TV. But the point is something else. The point is something else, which is that HDZ obviously wants to go to elections with its television. What on the other hand, gentlemen, is good at this debate? It is good that after this report, both MPs and editors will be more responsible for their work. Both of us will realize that life is not just black or white. However, once again to you, gentlemen, I'm ordering representatives. Let's not go to the cleanup on Croatian radio, however much the people are divided within Croatian radiotelevision. Those who will do so, I assumed they would go because of the financial results, but we talk all the time about the programming team guidelines and the like. And if that's what changes or changes are about, then know that we will be condemned by both the domestic and the international public. Know that this does not help Croatia, nor freedom of the media, nor objectivity, nor tomorrow's professionality of reporting, but it will certainly not help the integrity of the Parliament. "Latin," many say, was unprofessional, we read today. But once again I'm going to say that "light" motive is something else. Cash, TV control, homogenization of the electoral body, and as I said this morning, when someone suggested that Tudjman go to The Hague or that a charge came to him as president of the state, then I didn't notice that one of you then got up in the defense of Franjo Tudjman. I'll say this report should be accepted. Financial control should be sent on TV. These astronomical fees, if true, 40, 50, 60, 80 thousand are cut and published monthly, but people should be on TV because Croatian broadcasting must not be anyone's home video or party television. There must be no one's party bulletin but public television. On the question of Mr. Sprey, who mentioned here, which will be with them, I literally wrote it down, our answer should be nothing. You'll still do your job, but far more responsible. If that's what this debate was about, then we've reached our goal. If we are going to crash, if we are going to switch, know that similar things are going to happen in this House in 2007. And then some Croatian public and those employees who support the shift can hope and support another attack on television, but even then from professionalism, financial consolidation will remain nothing. And one more thing, for the end of Mr. Galic. It doesn't matter how he got here. You have to admit he stabilized the business, exactly, with 800 million kuna of that public money over the subscription. But Croatia's broadcasting in 2005 is everything but the way it was in '99, which is a huge success for both him and those who run that television. So television is better than it was. I know this is also the best time for HDZ to take over HRT. This suggests that HDZ was not in a dominant position even though it was in power for 2 years on Croatian television, but television should not be SDPs, IDSs or HDZs, but should be public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52802	Thank you. We're going to the first of 15 correcting incorrect allegations. Order, please! First Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52803	Well, I first thought when my colleague Cain mentioned for the first time Mr. Skor that there was some mistake. What is our moral right to mention a singer here in a parliamentary debate about a possible director of television?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52804	Correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52805	Well, that's exactly it. I am correcting his allegations that Škoro is a potential Pucist candidate for the head director of Croatian television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52806	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52807	And my God, we are already used to consistency in inconsistencies. She says by the time she was 90 she chose politics until 2000. E, this director is the only one who hasn't been elected by politics. ... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wrote it down very well. So that's completely incorrect. He's been chosen from the principalship, and this department has chosen politics according to one law. And colleague Cain, ask Denis Kuljiš, who recently said on TV who Ante Vujic wrote the law from former party friends walking alongside Sava on Croatian TV. Then you said cleaners. What kind of cleaners? So now you see that you haven't even read the law? Why don't we change a nakarad law that's nowhere in the world. Then, you mentioned last night's beginning of the journal. He was like, "Mislave, who's attacking us?". He says: "The rulers are attacking us, and the opposition does not defend us." By thinking, we are not defended by our own. Well, and that's proof that this law needs to be changed, and read what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52808	Next correction by the respected representative Ana Lovrin. Anna Lovrin, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Cain said HDZ wants to go to the polls with its television. That's incorrect. HDZ, and I believe other political options want national television to truly be public Croatian national television, and this whole debate is going in that direction today. And if some journalists, I don't say all of them, and most of all our journalistic stars really understood that they are public television, which is funded from a fee which is actually a tax on television possession, then they wouldn't start a diary yesterday with who is attacking us there and wondering because it's the right of this Croatian Parliament. And then we would have the right and the Croatian public to objective information and report on the main information show about what is happening in this country, not by the choice of editors to watch what he thinks happened that day.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52810	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52811	Mr. President, it is incorrect that fellow Caine's claim that there has been a debate here exclusively on programming matters that has not been discussed financially which he considers important and important. I would like to remind you that since the time available to the club of HDZ representatives I half talked about culture, the second half was spoken by fellow Hebrang almost exclusively to financial problems, this was still being talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52812	Next correction, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52813	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct the thesis that colleague Cain said the HDZ wanted to take over before the election. That's just not true, we didn't need television in the '90s. Nor in 2003 to win the election, but what else we want, we want that TV to be really public, national and responsible to its people, and not that some of the articles that have been on it since 2000 are only one in a series of dice with which the Hague indictment is based.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52814	Next correction, honourable representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52815	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Cain, accused Mr Galic of not courageously defending Croatian television journalists, claimed no one could be sacrificed. An esteemed colleague is not exactly how true it is to sacrifice everyone for the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52816	Next correction by the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52817	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who claimed that HDZ wanted to go to elections with its television, which is not true. The HDZ does not need his television a respected colleague, but needs a television that will be objective, professional and that will be able to protect national interests and promote the truth about the Homeland War. Thus, a colleague of Kaja's TV needs HDZ and I hope for all political parties in Croatia as well as a large majority of Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52818	Next correction, respected representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52819	And the same inaccuracy as Mr. Cain who claimed that HDZ wanted to go to elections with his television. That's completely incorrect. HDZ wants to go to elections with far more responsible, objective, more professional and competent television when it comes to fundamental social values. This way of accessing the fundamental social values of public Croatian television is unacceptable. The relationship to the Homeland War, the relationship to the economy, the relationship to science, the relationship to the knowledge society is unacceptable and the level of standards and quality and what we as a society and the Croatian Parliament and representatives in the Croatian Parliament cannot accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52820	Next correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52821	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Caine, where he claimed that HDZ strictly wants to put television under his control before the elections. This is absolutely incorrect because in the report of the Programme Council clearly... It states that the Croatian Parliament is the one who oversees the legality of the HRT Council, and this is mentioned in the various complaints of associations, institutions and citizens, as well as parliamentary representatives of the HRT Council, asked the HRT's business and programme management to seriously consider and react to such objections as they did not do today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the accuracy, Mr. Cain. Read page 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52822	Next correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52823	Here it is incorrect that HDZ wants to take power before the elections, that's what we've heard. Now, what exactly is it? It's true that actually Mr. Caine is obsessed with the election. Yesterday in the paper, he even gave instructions that should be voted on by forgetting that voters forget a lot in two years. It is also incorrect that the opposition left behind HRT, Mr. Cain is faithful here, believes that television will reward him with a minute and a grog of thanks plans anyway follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52824	Next correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52825	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Caine, HTV is not a home video, is not a party newsletter, we do not intend to bring down HTV nor do we intend to tear down "Latinica", we do not need to defend Dr Franjo Tudjman, he defended us as chief of the armed forces and the leader of the democratic movement freed and defended and left us with the rest that Mr. Latin and many Latinians in the Republic of Croatia, and it is called an independent sovereign state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52826	Dear Representative Marko Širac, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52827	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Cain said at the beginning of his presentation, "HDZ wants to go to the elections with its television." That inspired statement by Mr. Cain is really not true. The Croatian Democratic Community and we representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community are asking that the Programme Council and HTV leadership act and work in accordance with the applicable laws and what Croatian television must be like public television and ensure objective, true information and orderly business, and so far they have not done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52828	Next correction, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52829	Thank you, Mr. President. Since almost everyone has corrected the quote from the beginning of Mr Cain's debate, I am giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52830	Thank you. Next correction, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52831	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm in fear, and for the simple reason that Mr. Cain said we have to be afraid of someone on the outside. Look, I was intimidated by werewolves, fairies, bogeymen, later by the party, and now in our free Croatian state with someone on the outside. Inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52832	And the esteemed representative, Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52833	Mr. President, it is an incorrect assumption that we want to make a cleanup on Croatian-radiotelevision. We simply want to say that people like you, Mr. MP, do not have the right to be an attorney for Croatian Radiotelevision. You impose advocacy, nepluralism as a protection of democracy and truth. You deal as a regional party more Istria and less with national editorial policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52834	Thank you. SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52835	Mr. President, sir... Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday I was talking about the need to protect the media in this case Croatian television from this Parliament, and now I would like to add something else that will probably make one number of us angry here, and that is that this Parliament too needs to protect from the Parliament and let me say one sentence of what I mean. Every conversation, every debate was in the house, outside the house, public or not public in this House or any other Parliament can reach the point where dialogue is no longer possible. Because of strong criticism, strong emotions, strong convictions by people who participate in this, but then discreet people at one point say they need to stop and keep the possibility of talking, for dialogue, and in this case for our parliamentaryism, and that was my motive for having decided to report, not to challenge anyone at what they believe, what fiercely with emotions or attitudes defends rather than because of the assumption that there are others who have beliefs, emotions and attitudes from whom they have a duty to protect at a certain moment their colleagues who sit and share the responsibility of parliamentary deputies. If possible, and in such an atmosphere, we continue the debate. If not possible, colleagues and colleagues, do not be angry that a part of us will show that it cannot take part in a debate that leads to a minimum standard which in this House and elsewhere should be respected comes into question. Now let me have another one. Indeed, I can imagine that because of my beliefs and views, people may want to take over the role of Mr. Levko and his programming council. I can imagine the situation that because of my beliefs and views someone may want to take over the role of editor-in-chief and other editors on Croatian TV and on Croatian Radio. But colleagues and colleagues, it is possible only in the debate, but also in with certain limitations. If this went further, this Parliament would give itself powers that do not belong to the Constitution and then we would have to say in that sense that in fact in one place in the state, which is Croatian television we create the circumstances of the state of emergency. The situation in the country of colleagues and colleagues, the state of our public, in our media despite the open issues and discussions that are being conducted is not so far away. That's what the prime minister was talking about in security matters, and that's what others were talking about. So we have open questions but we have a stable situation and let's not give signals and signs from this House that we cannot do in this respect. If someone is not satisfied and has legal and legal frameworks to do what parliaments do about the leadership of public enterprises, in this case, with regard to HTV, it can be done but not in the way that this is going on, to question the level of parliamentaryity that we must safeguard and to question the necessary and important difference between us in the Parliament and what is Croatian television and any other media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52836	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Ivo Loncar first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52837	The gentleman said, quote, "I said yesterday that the media should be protected from this Parliament and today I will add that this Parliament should be protected from this Parliament.". Too much from Pupovec. You yesterday when you told him the media couldn't protect themselves from this Parliament he claimed he didn't say that. I think the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public should protect against Pupovec's scandalous and lying statements. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52838	The second correction by the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52839	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, it is incorrect that Mr. Pupovac said this debate had gone too far and that the Parliament should be protected from the Parliament. This is absolutely incorrect because this Assembly is a body that controls the legality of the work of the HRT Council and this Assembly is the one that has also appointed parliamentary representatives who have raised certain questions to which they seek a clear unequivocal answer, and these issues are clear objections to the Croatian Radio-Television programme as well as their receipts in all structures. They haven't answered that yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52840	Next correction by the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52841	I'm correcting an incorrect quote that has specials I'd say great weight. I quote, "We've come to the point where the debate is no longer possible.". I think that is at least incorrect and unacceptable because we here have to protect our democratic freedoms through debates. Changes are being seen, changes that are necessary on Croatian radio-television in order to strengthen the role of Croatian radio-television in society but I couldn't even understand that the resistance to these positive changes in this society is so profound in this Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52842	Next correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52843	Thank you very much. I must correct Mr. Pupovac's incorrect allegations that the debate is being held here without dialogue and without the right to debate. That's not true. Representatives of Croatian TV have the opportunity to answer every one of our requests. We've been discussing here, but the other day we haven't received an answer to any of our questions. We didn't get a question either because of financial malversions, about salaries, about contracts, about how to obtain foreign production, or why there is no positive show on the Day of the Fall of Vukovar about this most terrible day of the newer Croatian history, etc. Therefore, dialogue exists but the other side does not take advantage of its right to dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52844	Fifth Amendment, Honored Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52845	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Pupovac, said at the beginning of his presentation: "This Parliament should be protected from the Parliament.". Mr. Pupovac, you have the right to your opinion, you have the right to say whatever you want in this Croatian Parliament, but what you have said for the truth is not true. I'm asking you a question. With what right do you representatives of the Croatian Parliament invite us to conduct differently in the debate if none of us have exceeded the limits of tolerance and dignity? This House is chaired by Mr. Shakespeare and not Mr. Pupovac and Mr. President has the right to invite us to conduct if we do not behave properly and for these fifteen or I don't know how many hours we've been discussing I haven't noticed yet that he did it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52846	And distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec is the last correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52847	It is a completely incorrect statement by Mr. Pupovac that if something is to be achieved on television, it is not by debate in this House but by other means. Therefore, according to the HRT Act, it is quite true that only the debate on the reports can reach an opinion, therefore, or there is a consensus on the opinion of the reports ahead. And the fact that Mr. Pupovac doesn't hear from each of us what he would like to hear doesn't give him the right to put himself in a judge or an archduke because he's just one of us. So, like us, he has the right to both his criticism and his praise, and I wouldn't allow him to be the criterion by which I speak here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52848	The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52849	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! The Croatian Democratic Community Club is joining the Croatian Parliament president's appeal to conduct a debate on Croatian radio-television reports and end up in a tolerated tone, to contribute to improving the quality of Croatian radio-television programme monitored and rational spending. The Croatian Democratic Community Club stands for a high level of freedom on Croatian Radio-Television, but we ask that it be monitored for the highest level of quality of programme and professionalism and for the benefit of our society by protecting social, moral and national values. Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will shorten their discussions but will continue to discuss the reports of Croatian Radio Television ahead of us. Reports are being discussed constructively and critically. So we firmly reject the attempt to insinuate that it's about hacks, heads down, clean-ups, party television and away from the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52850	Thank you very much. I appeal to all MPs and MPs to go towards the end of this debate, that the debates indeed be shortened. A lot has been said, more or less they all said so, not by restricting the rights of the MPs, I plead that this debate is tolerantly concluded in a short time. Honorable representative of Jenna Adam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52851	Dear President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. The Hungarian national minority wants to achieve its personality through the school system, media space and cultural institutions. I am sure that the preservation of national identity, purity of mother tongue, quality education, the cultivation of cultural and historical traditions as religious features cannot be achieved without quality information. The media play a key role in countering discrimination, influencing public opinion, in promoting cooperation between communities and in promoting respect for human rights. The report on minorities in the incident context favours creating intolerance, prejudice and stereotypes to members of national minorities. Often, a lack of will to illuminate important facts is observed in the conflicts between minority people and the majority people, especially in the environments that are still recovering from the effects of war and international conflicts. The majority media must certainly show greater sensitivity to the problems of national minorities so that information about us is not exclusively a dominant political issue, because knowingly or intentionally crossing facts is actually untrue reporting. Document... meetings, Conferences on Human Dimension, CES, guarantees the right of persons belonging to national minorities to establish and manage their own educational, cultural and religious institutions, organisations or associations. [[You don't understand.]] The Framework Convention for the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities states that parties must take appropriate measures to facilitate access to the media to members of national minorities. This implies that national minorities must have a proper share of the broadcasting time on public television. According to the Council of Europe report, the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages on Public Television has not changed since the first round of monitoring. Namely, Prizma is still the only television show for national minorities showing up once a week in the same format. The Hungarian national minority compared to the state before the Homeland War could count on half an hour a week on public television in a programme broadcast from Croatia's regional television studio in Osijek by 1991. A more significant presence, i.e. independent emissions of individual languages, is the only way and has an exceptional importance for the protection and promotion of regional and minority languages in modern society. Unfortunately, the state does not provide any support for the production of sound-imaging content for half-hourly emissions in Hungarian, which one commercial television station in Osijek is financing by its own resources. The Committee of Experts therefore concluded and encouraged the Croatian authorities to introduce measures to enable the financing of the production of sound-images in regional or minority languages. The last meeting of the Croatian-Hungarian Mixed Committee for Minorities was held in Zadar on 5 May 2005. The Joint Committee on the mutual protection of national minorities in the two countries agreed, among other things, in the following. The Croatian side, in line with multiple promises in 2006, will ensure the foundation of a public Hungarian radio-edition in Osijek that meets the needs of the Hungarian community in Croatia. It will also provide material conditions for the work of a television workshop established in Osijek with Hungarian support. The establishment of a Hungarian television office, a Hungarian minority in Croatia based in Osijek, is supported. Protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Hungary, i.e. the Hungarian minority in the Republic of Croatia, is a stabilising element of importance in relations between the two friendly states. The legal position of two minorities in line with European minority protection standards can generally be seen as regular. This was also confirmed in a joint statement by Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenco Djurdjan issued in Budapest on 8 February 2005. The signatories of this statement agree that, as allies, they should bear a shared responsibility not to report new lines of division in a wider European environment and that the highest-level dialogue culture needs to be nurtured. For the Hungarian national minority in Croatia, the means of public communication are extremely important, especially the electronic media, because they play a key role in the public opinion as well as in the promotion of minority, or human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52852	Thank you. The word has the head director of HRT, Mirko Galić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52853	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, let me explain to the honourable MPs and MPs that I have not been silent and that I cannot answer for the silence because I respected the Rules of Procedure which gives me the right to speak to the extent that the Chief Interpreter of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Shakespeare, interprets it. And I thank the opportunity to answer the questions that have been asked here, which I was ready to answer yesterday, but there were no proposing questions, there are none now, I can no longer wait for them to return, so I will answer those questions that interest the broad circle of members of this House. It's the highest interest of wages. I suppose there's a reciprocal kind of interest in that, the salaries of MPs, the salaries of journalists, the salaries of the Parliament, the salaries of the HRT. Here's the data. It's not a secret, it's the main ones. The average gross salary last year was 8 thousand 625 kuna. The average net salary was 5 thousand 669 kuna. It is therefore something above the average in the City of Zagreb, it is about a thousand kuna above the average in the Republic of Croatia. Given the character of the institution, the character, the weight and importance of the activity not to say the mission that Croatian Radio and Croatian Television perform in the Republic of Croatia, it does not seem to me to be excessive, but these are the salaries that came to this level with those significant 2003 increases based on the rules that were in some parts less successful and will surely need to be updated and adopted according to the procedure that was envisaged, so also with the consent of the trade union, the staff board and the Croatian Radio Television institutions. It's a question of all receipts. Croatian broadcasters shared the regresses for vacations, shared the resurrections, the Christmases, but did not cross the threshold of their financial opportunities or jump out of the framework that exists in the Republic of Croatia. These receipts are somewhere at about 3,000 a year. My chief financial advisors can make me better. But there are other possibilities that are mentioned or not mentioned. Travels, journals for employees of Croatian television are included and I am those journals prescribed by the laws in the Republic of Croatia. Travel expenses are the same as everyone else. The right to cards belongs to a circle of people who do not abuse them and who are under constant supervision and control. There are some earlier, some earlier rights that I, for example, abolished, stopped with them, such as housing loans under privileged conditions that some former members used twice and used 300,400 people. We've regulated it. It's gone. We refer our people to banks and the conditions that apply to banks. Management contracts. I found the manager's contracts, a hundred manager's contracts. I'm off. I found some high wages, cut them off, including mine. Here's my salary 20 grand. A lot or a little? For Croatian conditions, maybe a lot. For some others a little. You see, the Hungarian director of the Diaries has two of my salaries. He has a salary higher than my salary and the salary of the head of the Croatian daily. I leave you to find out if it's a lot, is that small? In any case, it's up to you because you control the legality of our work to assess in general the institute of special, special contracts which of those former managers are left with 10 so-called. specific contracts which are subject to the rule of law by the Director, or the Director's Office. There are 10 such contracts. Why can't we talk about everything in public? Because we're on the market. Because there's a fight going on for our people, for our best personnel. Best leaders, best editors. Can we play with our cards open and our competition on the same market keeps our cards closed? I don't think so. The Parliament has the possibility to change ours, to assess whether our regulations are legal and whether the director's behaviour is in accordance with the law, and the conduct based on such regulations? It's all possible legal and undeniable, but then let's talk about it. The stories that come from the house about a few tens or hundreds of thousands of receipts are not true. This is, this is information, information that's official. Which I'm responsible for. There are different types of copyright fees; for films, for dramas, for scripts, for directors, for music. We have six thousand such contracts a year. It's not 6 thousand people. Some of them come in a few times. Same people. Naturally. RAI has 11000 or 12,000 employees to compare large television, with 120 thousand outside associates. We don't have a 1:10. We have 1:2 or not at most 1:3, but external cooperation in Croatia is a law and this now comes to the question of the number of employees, foreign cooperation in Croatia is practically condemned to work relations. We had a four-by-five labour inspection in one year. We've had them in the last five months, at least five. They are no longer just in Zagreb but are also in centres outside of Zagreb. We can't be forced to obey the law and accuse us of increasing the number of employees. Out of the 1500 external associates I found, who haven't received fees in five months, we've regulated most of these people. They're the ones who are working now, but in a working relationship, and not in external cooperation, in the position of the one who comes to work every day, has no security pay, no job experience, no pension and no social security. I think that's progress. I understand the interests of the Parliament and the representatives of the business. This is the primary interest in my court with an interest in some global, editorial, global editorial orientation or concept that is here in the jurisdiction of Mr. Levaq and the Programme Council. But when discussing business, you should keep in mind data, comparative data. If the House of 2000 was found in a state of 260 million losses, and this 5-year management resupplyed, settled the debt, invested more than 5 hundred million largely of its own resources in development, completely modernised technology, and these are some results which, in my court, merit a modest belief to be at least apostrophe. As well as objecting to the program. There's a lot of them. I share some, but I would like to say Mr. Štengl was talking about the treatment of Vukovar so he mentioned for example that Croatian radio-television, and he was present then and the mayor of the then was with me when we managed to provide information equipment to one school. I'm very glad of that, too. It is not important to mention that Croatia has ordered and performed for, not this year's, but last year's Vukovar Special River Day, which was repeated this year, last premiered. I would, I just plead for the complete truth when we talk about the truth. The truth isn't just made up of negativity. The truth also has some positive elements. Croatian radio-television is business-stable and those who talk about malfeasance should have evidence of malfeasance. What can be the evidence? The audit that's in the house. The state audit that finished the job at the house. Of course, other state institutions. I mention, there was tax, financial, labour inspection. They're all over the house. Is it possible that we have so well hidden traces and evidence of malfeasance?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52854	Thank you very much, equator. You'll have a chance again. Now there's a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52855	Thank you very much. Mr. President, here's a series of allegations that are not true with respect that Mr. Director has elaborated a series of questions asked but not quite to the end. So the first incorrect allegation that Croatia is radio-television on the market. This is not true at all because Croatian Radio Television was in 2004. 816 million kuna has revenue from the fee, and half of it has revenue from promotional messages. In 2004 compared to 2003, the revenue from the tax is growing, and the revenue from the promotional messages is falling, and therefore Croatia is certainly the public-funded radio-television of houses. Another incorrect allegation that the main interest of the MPs was pay. No, the main interest of MPs and it is here, the question here is how many people on Croatian broadcasting have paid more than 15, not pay, but receive more than 15 thousand kunas. We are not interested in the average salary, gross and net, we have all of this in the audit report mentioned here and it is clear that everything is in accordance with the law is, other than public procurement it is seen from the audit report. But I also don't doubt whether there is a small or large salary of the director, but neither the parliamentary salaries are compared to the representatives in the Hungarian Parliament, but are compared with the lowest...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52856	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Andrija Hebrang, third Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52857	Thank you very much. It is incorrect to assume that the debt has been consolidated because at the moment there are 171 million outstanding tax obligations, 31 million paid obligations under other laws, which gives the same result. It is also incorrect that Croatian television is on the market because it does not pay value added tax or pay profit tax. Therefore, there are no markets. At the end of the labour inspection, it was also said, among other things, that there are 54 contracts on the day or total of 9,000 752 contracts in 2004, works of which one part, according to the tax inspection of simulated contracts, are at least 14 established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52858	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52859	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Chief Director, I have not heard from any parliamentary representative in the debates so far that he mentioned that the salaries on HRT are against the law. So I'm correcting that incorrect assumption and I agree with you that it's all legal. However, it is the wrong interpretations of HRT when it did not take into account when publishing the salaries of parliamentary deputies. Why didn't HRT then take the average salary of employees in the Croatian Parliament, so you would see how smaller the average is than the average that is for HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52860	Next, honourable representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52861	Mr. President, Mr. Galic has answered questions that we haven't asked. We literally asked the receipts, and we got the answers to the average salary and net salary. We're told TV is important, but the police are important, so there's less pay. And Mr. Galic was talking about travel expenses. I'd like to know, he said they're equal. I didn't realize who they were equal to. All I know is that Parliamentarians travel in the tourist class when they go out on trips. I'd like to know how Mr. Galic travels. First class is a double price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52862	Next, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52863	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Like this, I am correcting an incorrect quote like everyone else that Croatian television is on the market. It can't be. If it's public television, then it can't be on the market. And so you can't as a business secret keep receiving some of your associates. We have asked here how much the Merlic family kills, how many killings Dennis Latin and similar, and I am still asking which independent production companies that have to sell to you are selected on the basis of a public competition. Is the soap opera about models and football players selected in a public competition?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52864	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52865	Mr. Galic said he could not answer these questions because it was not in Mr. Rozic's assembly that asked him that question. Mr. Galic, I've told you five times, you can see it in a phonogram, I asked you a question. So I know how to move wages on Croatian television. I'm interested in you telling us here, because you have this data from people with particularly stimulating contracts as much as they pay, that's what I'd like to ask you. Dnevnik's leaders have the salary, the same ones who disinform the Croatian public about the salaries of parliamentarians. I can tell you what my salary is and I can tell you what 90% of the MPs are. If I didn't repeat myself as a parrot, I was saying, "Who's got that big salary?" And on the basis of that average, we wouldn't even have $14,000, and it's said 16 etc., etc. Then I'd be interested in what my colleague Mayan said, how much has the editor of the show that caused such a scandal the other night? And what the viewership of that show is and how many associates there are in that show, because that's not the editorial of tp's show.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52866	And the next correction, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52867	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Galic said they didn't hide any leads in the business. Which is not true. And now, in order for me not to be subjective, I will read the opinion of the independent auditor they are calling for, because I quote: "In the review process we have seen some other phenomenal forms of irregularities in the conduct of public procurement procedures, such as sharing values. The sharing of the value of the purchase of the same goods and services to a lesser extent in order to avoid public competition or the collection of 5 offers, and in certain cases the purchase of goods and services took place without the legally implemented procurement procedure.", finished quote. I think that's proof that you were still hiding clues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52868	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52869	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I would like to say is that I am offended by this way of discussing the part of my colleagues who are actually closing the possibility of a debate in the Croatian Parliament. Discussing in Parliament is a normal thing, it is also the task of every Parliamentarian and every man is responsible for his word. And that fear with someone else, if you say that and say that, if you argue that and that, it also insults me as a man and a Parliamentarian. We are responsible persons and each bear responsibility individually and as a representative of the party for the spoken word. This is where such an atmosphere was created in Parliament that whatever man is actually saying is that it will interpret that someone has something against Mr. Director Galic and the entire team from Croatian Radio Television. On the contrary, I did not see anything like it. We were all focused, someone with a little more arguments, someone with a little less arguments about Croatia having true public television and to prevent the dive of Croatian television, means program diving towards entertainment, towards easy entertainment. It means to turn to what is fundamental in Croatian television to be the public service of its citizens, to see what is public, which is on the general well-being of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Broadcasting Programme. That's how I've been discussing it all along, and that's how I'm gonna keep going. So, my established intention is to, not to take my head off here to Mr. Galic, to laugh these people here but forward that they answer the questions of the parliamentary representatives to answer whether the management of Croatian broadcasting means journalists, editors, all responsible people, whether they can guarantee that Croatian television will not go this way as it is now going. I read yesterday the report from the Open Society Institute, the Institute of International Relations, so I read just, that's their qualification, that's not my qualification. It's not a human qualification. So one monitoring was done and the conclusion was given. And that's not what the conclusion was about. Therefore, it is my intention. Can we have, do we have personnel, what are the conditions that the Croatian Parliament must allow, or Croatian state that Croatia has its true public television. And every other debate, in any other debate, should be observed in this context. Furthermore, I would return to the very beginning of this debate, actually to the reason that it has come to this pace of this debate. It's a past show, that's two days ago in Latina. I'll say one of my observations that I couldn't say yesterday when I spoke on behalf of the club, because it's about three parties at the club. There's a method in history called "damacio memory". When you want to throw something out, you delete something and that method is otherwise known. I have the impression that some Croatian TV shows use this method. By Domination of Memory, if you want to kill memory, delete the memory of a Croatian man then offer him such a single show, such content. They're neither professional nor true, and that should be prevented. Furthermore, the same show calls for people who are alive and healthy, who, for the lives of the late President Franjo Tudjman, were in a kind of conflict with the same president. The dead mouth can't defend itself, but those people have expressed themselves in an ugly way and spoken, in an untrue way about the late president. And when you look at it, that vote at the end, it was a question of who was the better president, Ivo Sanader or Franjo Tudjman, HDZ? HDZ? 70% said that Tudjman was better, 30% Sanader. What does that say about Franja Tudjman? It means that people respect him, that they love him. They're also your viewers. Therefore, that fact should be respected. Or one more thing. In that show to accuse Tudjman of robbing... of his authority was opened this famous process of criminal privatisation. But why doesn't Croatian broadcasting invite all these people, they are alive who have spent that criminal privatisation. Why don't you invite them to the show so you can give them a nice cut to the Croatian public like this? You'll never do that because it's up to them, they're marketing, they're paying for the right shows, etc. Therefore, whether there is enough critical and professional consciousness and ability to approach it in such a way, not a dead mouth to accuse. Here, so much for the show itself. I discussed some aspects of the Croatian Radio Television programme yesterday and let me say some things today. He would point out the false perception of Croatian TV's programme and business philosophy as public television. If we do not have, colleagues and colleagues, educational, cultural, scientific programme, if we do not have a documentary programme, what was once the power of Croatian television, then one wonders whether it makes sense to subscribe. Does it make sense to subscribe if Croatian television is flooded by commercial content because these same commercial content is found on other televisions as well? Does it make sense to subscribe when buying American films, various different television formats that are licensed or, say, quizzes like "Millionaires", "Take or Leave", and "The weakest link". It is a superficial approach, this superficial approach is the consequence of the opinion that Croatian television must run for the highest number of viewers at any time. Why would it have to go after every viewer? That's why you have a subscription that makes up for what you would otherwise lose in a game with commercial television. In countries with a long tradition of commercial television precisely public television, especially in Europe, play a much greater role than it is to entertain theatre. Instead of such a program in the most visible terms, not at a deaf time of night or early in the morning public television must work a program that cannot be seen on commercial programs. This means, much more domestic, so let's say amateur sport because it provides support to sports clubs at local sponsors. For example, Croatian athletics, swimming, handball, basketball. This is exactly how sports are monitored, thus ensuring that the youth is engaged in sports and that it hangs less on cafes and less on drugs. I'd also like to draw attention to the cultural program of HTV. That's what I was talking about yesterday. The general conclusion is that it is too little in view of the public business of Croatian television as public television. It is devastating to know that this program that we usually have is being broadcast mainly at a time when people who are actually meant to be able to follow it at least. The documentary program is a special story to itself. When compared to, say, budgets on a documentary and entertainment program, you have the fact that 10 times more is set aside for fun than for a documentary program. The business of Croatian television is precisely to produce its own programme to promote the values of Croatian man, Croatian society, meaning Croatian national treasure. World trends among public televisions give special attention to local programmes, i.e. the problems of people in local communities. We know well that Croatian television has a well-organised network of studies and correspondence in Croatia, and thanks mainly to the subscription, people who pay the subscription. The current situation is devastating. The impact of local topics, i.e. on the emissions involved, is more than negligible and modest in the Croatian Television programming scheme. In my opinion, we should also insist on more emissions in the most visible terms, which deal with current policy, cultural content, and pay particular attention to current social issues. It is definitely a program that should prevail, and it is represented by a minor in the public television programme. We have one bright example on Croatian television, let's say, it's the morning program. It seems to me that there should be an evening program on the cover of that morning program. A strategy that combats commercial televisions by Croatian television, and for the largest number of viewers, the European public television mission is not achieved. And yes, for example, to confirm that HTV's programming philosophy departs from its primary assignment are films. HTV does not show world film production, but in 90% of cases it spins only Hollywood commercial films. Isn't the assignment of public television just the opposite? Shouldn't HTV invest in domestic drama works, in the screening of works performed in Croatian theatres, that was also the case. There are still a number of issues that a man would ask you questions about here personally. I can see that time is coming to an end, I didn't say everything I was going to say, but I would really suggest to you, Mr Galic, that you open a channel in the Croatian Television programme, one show in which citizens, viewers, are able to show value, the kind of individual shows, so there might be less of these conflicts in Parliament, and then you wouldn't be able to say in this way that someone wants to take someone's head off. It would know exactly what the echo of individual contributions is and how it is responsible for contributions to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52870	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52871	A colleague, Piploic, mentioned a subscription. Well, a lot of people may not understand what a subscription is. It can't be touched, the subscription has to be paid everywhere. Why the subscription? We have public television even though I publicly say heavy hearts at least when it comes to current television, but here, okay. It is defined as public television although I would also define it as national television because it is with its subscription funded by citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But you see, why can't you touch the subscription? It must not be touched in the subscription because it is a public, national television that has non-profitable programmes. For example, information program, cultural, scientific, educational, school, these are programs to be lost to. This is where Croatian culture is created, so there is one part of the public that we cannot in any way compensate for commercial content even though Croatian broadcasting has recently been the strongest commercial television in Croatia. She showed it, but what I wanted to draw attention to. The subscription should not be touched, the subscription must remain, but also since the subscription is financed by citizens, that television must also be national, which I am afraid lately it is losing to it its identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52872	The Shyme of the Smack.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52873	Mr. President. A colleague, Piploić, of course, expressed his views, and in a short time he certainly couldn't express everything that we others feel. I'm calmly watching these discussions, and I can't help but think that actually the MPs here are in the courtroom. How do you not feel condemned when HTV first prepares the show a few days before the debate in Parliament on their business, and judges representatives and the Croatian Parliament, of course directly and indirectly to the Croatian people? How you don't feel condemned when we're accused by those who are up to the '90s. And in 2000, they call us right-wings, destroyers, those who want to destroy something, they are the ones who build, they are the ones who guard, forever. They're guarding Yugoslavia, now they're saving something else, and we're breaking one, so now we're breaking something else. I really can't understand that this is how we are brought into the act of convicted and that this is how it affects that instead of the debates on the state of television, there is a debate on salaries on television, that's the consequence, not the cause. The cause is the general state there, I will only say one example in this short time, precisely our trial on television, and the fine successes in Croatia, business, economic, others are very rarely on television example Mr. Director check the 10th of June of this year delivery of the largest ship in Croatia called "Croatia", a Croatian product of about 50 million dollars, not a word in 24 hours of HTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52874	Zdenka Babić Petricevic, a respected representative, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52875	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Comrade Piplojic, I will quote you: "The persons who were in conflict with President Tudjman have been called." They were not in conflict with President Tudjman, but with the creation of President Tudjman in relation to the freedom and defence of the state of Croatia, and now with his legacy and that "Latinica", it should be based on the truth, not on lies, and since I personally do not tolerate "Latinica" because it is written in Cyrillic and that is why she is who she is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52876	And the next replica, the esteemed representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52877	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would have told Mr. Piplojic, he mentioned this show that was on Monday, Mr. Galic said several times that he had no influence on the editing of the shows, so that it was the editor's thing I would have told you now one of my conversations first and only with Mr. Galic when we went to open the road to Split, the buses went through the tunnel of St. The deadline and it stands behind those tunnels, I asked Mr. Galic the day before yesterday, it's the biggest tunnel in Croatia, we've been waiting our whole lives for that tunnel, why on Thursday on the "Dnevnik" wasn't the first news tunnel? That's the same thing my colleague used to say. Why was the first news called Bezovica, a case that has been going on television for a month? And I prayed to Mr. Galic, so give us some joy, give us some joy, we broke through the tunnel, give us the first news to at least look forward to first, and not give us the sad news the first one that is terrible and only then the tunnel. That's what Mr. Galić told me I can't edit "Dnevnik" it's not my business, he said to my insistence, so when you say so and when you want to, I organized that television all day follow the opening of the road to Split. I told him that, Mr. Galic, so can't you see that you're so powerful that you can secure the transmission all day long? So you have influence and you can, and if you don't have the influence you have to react harder, you can blackmail your resignation, offer your resignation to people if they don't work properly. Another thing, if I still get there, and obviously I won't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52878	You won't make it, then you'll get there later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52879	I'll get back to you later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52880	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52881	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The requirement for more responsibilities of HRT towards fundamental social values is our obligation, our responsibility, more professionalism, more responsibility, more expertise towards what really forms the foundation of social values in the Republic of Croatia today 2005. We have a right, we had an obligation to ask for more and therefore it makes sense this hour to say something more concrete about what are called the standards of working modern public television in the modern world. Standards that are not respected or minimally on Croatian-radiotelevision, and I want to talk about this in a very concrete, very specific way because we very often refer to standards and talk about them in a very abstract and indeterminate way. What do standards look like when it comes to some important social issues of wider public importance in the world? Look at every modern modern TV. The standards state this, I stress the number 1 competent and objective editor, competent, carefully selected participants, people in whom the résumés write something that allows them to speak objectively independently in the interest of the subject, in the interest of the public, in the interest of solving the problem, it is a methodology that is respected everywhere except for HRT and we talk about standards and we warn of unacceptable standards. When it comes to important social topics on modern and responsible television, then there are not only prominent individuals, but there are representatives of prominent institutions who speak not only on their own behalf but also speaking on behalf of institutions. Only then come the representatives of the government, Congress, Parliament, administration and in this methodology, the technology of work create the basic preconditions that an important topic can be discussed objectively, professionally, responsibly, in the interest of society as a whole, in the interest of the general public. It is the technology and methodology of work that is respected everywhere except for HRT, and on HRT it is done as once in the darkest times and I will very concretely illustrate it because I do not want to remain abstract. What does HRT technology look like? The illustration of the other day. Tendentious, unobstructed editor, incompetent participants whose résumés don't write anything that would qualify them to participate in a public debate on large, fundamental social values. What kind of politics is that? And after all that, when a common tenor is joined, incompetent associates are then infinite freedoms to create arbitrary scenarios, unobstructed assessments that rightly upset the public, but not just that. After all, the editor allows himself to choose from this collage what he thinks is in the interest of his pre-set goal. I was talking to a gentleman the other day who was at the "Latinica" show who was talking about Vukovar. Has Vukovar been betrayed? A representative of the Institute of History told me literally "all that I said was almost 80% removed". Thus, with such standards and such criteria, such professional responsibility must be borne with responsibility not only in the Croatian Parliament but in front of the Croatian public, it is a form of irresponsibility. Institutions are neglected, institutions marginalised, certain events marginalised. Knin 5.8.2005 organized a scientific event aimed at bringing Croatia's public and all of us objectively impartially closer to the events in Knin 1995. 5.8. I was one of the ones who got into Knin in 1995 and I was one of the ones who was invited to speak at that scientific gathering. Mr. Galic, not a single word about the meeting where the institutions were at, where they were competent, serious, responsible people. Unfortunately, you've talked about it all in an unacceptable way, in a way of incident, in a way of chaos, in a way of opposing individuals and different stakeholders, and it's a standard, technology and methodology of how HRT and individual editors want to influence, change the consciousness, knowledge and images of our recent history, and it's inadmissible and such an approach creates real trauma, causing severe trauma among those who have gone through, among those who have not been in the basements and have no right to be irresponsible to them. But we can't afford to talk about HRT today that this whole debate is unilateral, that it is tied to Latina, although we should stress that this Latina is not the only one yesterday, but it repeats itself on the first slide of the programme and emphasizes 380 times. So, 380 times in that technology and by that methodology, one important show about important topics in prime time, which is really what I would say too. And these are technologies and methodologies that we really believed were gone but they work. This class has no time or opportunity to talk about who's spending it. They're part of someone's script, they're part of the responsibility that belongs to someone. I don't want this debate to remain strictly tied to this subject. I would like to highlight some other important issues that represent the fundamental values of this society that you do not give proper due attention to. In particular, it's about science, it's about education. It's about what we've been talking about the last few days, the knowledge society. We've been talking these days about what's called a society of knowledge. I was perhaps less than a month ago at a rally in Budapest, a gathering of the Academy of Science and Arts of the World. Serious problems were discussed, the relationship between society and science, the role and the place of parliament, and there is hardly any of those who should be there to get to know the Croatian public about all the important things that the world is doing today in order to become more productive, more constructive, more competitive. And there was a journalist and I said if you had time to come to the next section you'd be talking about the responsibility of the media and the role of parliament in the knowledge society. She certainly did not come, and after a few days she contributed to the research of chimpanzees spoken of in one of perhaps a hundred sections. It is a way of understanding, it is a way of selecting, all of those things that are really not in the function of strengthening the development of Croatian society. Without responsibility, more undertaking, the ability of public television has no progress in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why all of these discussions, and most of them were well-intentioned, should be seen as a contribution to the changes that should make Croatia more competitive, more responsible and more successful. Opens to change in this way are not part of good democratic customs, standards and criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52882	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52883	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'd like to rephrase more colleagues, a little bit, and add that actually the journalists present and in the House are accusing us of commenting on their own offices. They accuse us of incompetence, political pressure, conspiracy and so on, and they glorify the untouchability of the HRT, which defends the opposition in a way that scares us from outside friends, as they used to frighten us from external enemies. At the same time, our business is being certified, secluded, compromised, mounted according to the order of editors, relationship to work, different images from different angles aware of their power, which they use extensively by manipulating viewers. We don't speak at all about the terms of Parliament's representatives, but we're talking about travel expenses because if we don't have a desk here, unfortunately, and there's half the material in our trunk, and it's got to be handy here, then it's good to take public transportation, even if we pull two suitcases ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52884	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52885	Here, I'm gonna look back on my esteemed colleague talking about editors, how editors edit. I think editors really have and should have the freedom to edit their shows. It would only be good if the editors respected certain things that the people were interested in, but they often live in another world and then. For example, several months ago, Mr. Roncevic, the largest vineyard of such species in this part of Europe was opened in Dalmatia. It's a vineyard that works on stone and goes machine and crumbs stone, and people plant vineyards de facto in stone. At the opening ceremony was the Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Parliament, Finance Minister, Agriculture Minister, several parliamentary deputies, several municipal presidents there from the neighborhood. On the Croatian Television Log, not a single word. The question is why. That day was not a word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52886	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52887	Well, a few words maybe about editors and their freedoms. Certainly, it is a prerequisite for every job but freedom without professionalism, without responsibility, without ethics, without expertise is the abuse of independence that your editors have repeatedly abused against the interest of HRT, against your interest, against the interest of all of us. And that's the problem. And there's one more thing I want to point out. It's time for serious changes on HRT. It's time for a serious restructuring. Mr. Galic, we haven't heard anything about what would be called a serious HRT restructuring strategy today in modern successful television. No TV with 3.5 thousand people, no television in which you will spend almost 90% of your budget to modernise technology and technology, digitize me very popular. Digitalisation is in, but any real change comes through change and selection of quality people, their education, education. Tell us how many future editors are at school today in the United States or elsewhere you haven't said anything about all these changes and restructurings on HRT that are very important. And all that shows is that it's really time to change on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52888	Thank you. HRT Chief Director Mirko Galic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52889	Thank you, Mr. President, it is a pity that the Rules of Procedure do not allow my associates who could certainly be more specific to some of the questions asked here, but I will respect the Rules of Procedure and try to answer what interests the MPs, and I have not been able to answer so far. What class do I travel with, my associates and even HRT employees? There is a strict decision by the directorship to travel through Croatia and Europe only in the second grade. Economic class. If someone was seen in the business class, then it's only because there were no tickets in economics. There's a strict warrant and an order brought by my principalship. And that wasn't worth it before. No, that's true. We can deliver a decision. ... Then ask the transporters, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ask the airlines, but there is a decision and it must be strictly respected. The question was referred to me again. I consider all the questions referred to me as principal director to be legitimate. Why was I in Bratislava and at whose expense was I in Bratislava? We can ask that question and everything can be asked about me and my work and my function and my responsibility. I'm sorry. There's no Mr. Rozic I can't tell him that's not the question about my family. My family is honorable, situationated and is not dependent on me and is never used and anywhere and will not use anything that would result from my function, which would be their privilege. I traveled to Bratislava because I was invited by the International tennis ferederate with whom we have excellent relations and thanks to these relations, so if you will and personally we have succeeded, Croatian Radio Television has succeeded in obtaining the right to transfer semifinals and the finals of Davis Cup, perhaps two of the five biggest sports events ever held here. I expected someone to say the positive side, and it was reduced to my journey. Always, allow me that freedom to look apodic, so Mr. Cosic will specify what he thinks is not good. Let's not mention how we addressed the issue of coverage of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and what understanding we showed for cable operators there. So Mrs. Petricevic will talk about what's wrong, and nothing's wrong, so everything's wrong, but she won't mention that last year we launched a television satellite program for North America, South America, Australia and New Zealand. The first time our emigration has 8 hours times 3 so 24 hours of program that includes all the information program, the most important information program we have here. There will be no mention of "The Voice of Croatia" as a successful initiative carried out during this principalship, which allows all Croatian emigrants to be able to monitor the Croatian Radio programmes daily. Mr. Zubovic says part of our conversation, it's true that I said "started", it was a special project. Special projects Pope visits Croatia. The opening of the highway and I don't know how many more of them there were, the World Cup in football falls under only special projects under the authority of the principal director and director. Everything else is under editor-in-chief, editor-in-chief, and I'm not operationally involved in their business, and I'm not getting involved while I'm at this job. Foreign productions, drama-played film program very important and I want to report to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that follows us into the programme, the drama programme, in the play programme of the last year, two or three days we have invested large funds and had observed successes. From the refurbishing of large television shows such as "Long Dark Night" to films that have been able to achieve very observed results at home, especially external festivals. Let's just say that in 2004, we made 12 films alone or co-produced. 12 films for one small country is a lot. If we had two spinning drama shows, they're currently spinning in our programs, which has never happened before. It is true that you can talk about the representation of classical music and I miss it. It is true that it can be talked about the representation of science and the conversion of science as a source of development and the future. And that's missing. It is true that culture must be provided for more time and even greater resources, but let us on the one hand find it difficult to condemn us to be successful in business because every bad business result will have consequences for the model of failed directors and directors and at the same time we have to force some of the content that we would like to see in the most difficult terms. That's the problem. In the last year, on behalf of external cooperation, which was implemented through the tender, we reached a standard of almost 10% more precisely 9.96. Missing 0.04. But we also used the Institute of Buybacks, which is legal, buying out the final program of ideas and projects, so let's say often quoted soap opera or soap operas belong to that category of buy-in of finished projects. We can't call a soap opera competition because in Croatia, I don't know how many producer groups can do it. But everything we bought from outside producers was bought by a procedure that was strictly prescribed. Committee, analysis, proposal and decision. Argumented decision. And is there a job for state inspections, if there are all documents and all sources available. No one's hiding anything. It is always suspected that someone is imposing a job, family, or individuals. There's a record of whether 20 grand a year for the whole team, for the whole team not for the individual much or little thing is the people who decide. But I can assure you that even as it may be the result of doubt or the need for questioning or the subject of interest is quite freely open to any insight that can be obtained. I would not like to have some shadow of doubt that money is shared by hand and hat because there is a category of program that has a public character programme, an information programme, part of a cultural programme, part of a drama programme that is not so neglected by the information that I get from our sources but according to the insight into the Captain himself and the content of our television programme. We have here a perfect series of successes about our submarine that has been sold well both outside and which has been extremely accepted in our country. All in all, therefore, I would like the debate to be freed from any need of a moment and to see what is subject to criticism and good change, and what should be supported, to be encouraged because there must be one and the other in our house. There's not just one, we're not perfect, we're just bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52890	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52891	Here, Mr. President, let me just, Mr. Galic said and rightly said that there was no good talk here. Because it's probably that kind of charge and that kind of atmosphere, but it's too often with us. And you said you wouldn't mention positive things. The president of the parliament held a meeting with the club presidents in his own time and announced what the parliament would do next month. That's what Mrs. Pusic made a joke and said, so then we'll do fitness in the Parliament thinking that a lot of people will sit here and it'll be hard to endure. What has Croatian TV published? Just what Mrs. Pusic said. She didn't announce that the President of the Parliament had given the programme of the fall work of the Parliament, all of it, but only that came out, one joke. What does our viewer get out of it? That we're circusers here, that we're talking about fitness, not serious things. It's a picture that goes out on TV. Just what's on TV happened. We all know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52892	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52893	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52894	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52895	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Principal Galic, I've answered the replica several times. When I arrive in time for my ten-minute debate, I will talk about what the Croatian Radio Television has done towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatian emigration. Whether I thank you or not is my courtesy, and it is your responsibility to you personally and your house. And I won't call on the Constitution all the time. But I'll say what's good and what's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52896	Next correction, respected representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52897	Mr. Galic claimed he would not mention everything well. It's just not true. It will. It will be mentioned and mentioned. But what is important, which is very important, and I stress, priority must be understood, important topics must be identified and distinguished from those that are less important. If you don't have that kind of resolution and selection, then that's exactly what's going on. To dominate less important topics, and to threaten and slow down fundamental social values, such as the Homeland War, and therefore the reactions were justifiable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52898	Next correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52899	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the incorrect quote from Mr. Galic that it's a good thing that emigration can see the program. If they watched Latina, the emigrants would say, thank God we escaped to the world in time because the criminals won the Homeland War, the state was created in crime, so the dominant word is crime. Secondly, it is incorrect that special contracts must be classified for market purposes, unless you pay as long as it takes for Latin to accidentally not go to your competition. And that's exactly what your commitment and encouragement to this type of show is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52900	Next correction, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52901	Well, I'm not sure it's exactly right for me to say that you don't know how many crews could offer this guy's soap opera right now. And I'm quite sure that on TV you have enough inventive people, enough capable only to give them project tasks to do the same, so I see the reason why Mr. Huljić has to hire actors, organise it because I think it's a house, given the capacity, I repeat, and the creativity of people who may not be able to express it every time they need to, could do it at a much less cost, and with the same effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52902	Thank you. Representative Lončar asks for an explanation from the president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52903	Yes, Mr. President, thank you. That's article 17. Now I don't want to read it. I would also remind you of article 16 and I don’t need to read it which is my colleagues sitting down with rights and obligations. Here's Mr. Rožić, there's Mr. Letica, but I've asked seven times what the salaries of the director of Dnevnik, special shows, for example, the editor of the show that ran the show the night before last. How many clothes they take a year, how many receipts are good and pay. How many people have on TV with special stimulating contracts and to explain why. I did, Mr. President, and that's why I asked you to explain that to Mr. Galic. Both Mr Galic and you and everyone here have the right to report as many times as you want, after every presentation of the MPs, to which Mr Rozic warned you yesterday about our Rules of Procedure. I'm defending journalistism and journalism, I'm just what I said yesterday and today because of what I've been through since '96. until 2000. I criticise what I was persecuted for, and today it is on the stage on Croatian RadioTelevision where, without any arguments and facts of attack, it is demeaning and insulting people. I'm the victim of this Croatian radio television. Yesterday I explained how when and how. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. President, to Mr. Director of Croatian Television, Mr. President of the Programme Council, Director of Croatian Television, the editor-in-chief of the Information Programme of Croatian Television, to tell them what their rights are and how and how they can step forward so that we representatives under Article 16 can get what we are interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52904	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 16 of the Treaty on The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be made available to all official materials, documents and data prepared or collected in the working bodies of the Assembly and the professional service of the Parliament, the Government, the ministries and other bodies of the state administration, which relate to the topics discussed in the Assembly. The information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may also be made available to representatives via the Internet page, depending on the technical possibilities of the Assembly. These questions that you refer to through me and who you are... multiplely referred to the Director-General the materials are not prepared in the working bodies of the Parliament, nor the professional service of the Parliament, nor the Government, the ministries, or the body of the state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is one legitimate obligation and the duty of the leaders and the HRT and all those bodies that report to the Croatian Parliament to give clear and precise answers to the asked questions. I hope that the head director of HRT will also give to your enquiries and enquiries from other representatives concerning topics from one and the other reports, any reports relating to the operation of HRT, directorship or implementation of the programming principles and obligations of the HRT programme council, that the leaders will also give appropriate full and complete answers. We're continuing the debate. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52905	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Normally, on the second day, we are discussing the subject already addressed several times, which is the report on the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on the HR and HTV Programme in the period from 30 June 2004 to 11 July 2005 and the Report of the Croatian Agency for the operation of the 2004 HRT with an independent audit report on the audit of the financial reports carried out for 2004. Since this topic is certainly interesting not only for parliamentary representatives, it is interesting for the directorship, for HRT and for the entire Croatian public because Croatian radio television is, at least it should be national television and public television. So I'll start in a row. I must have prepared a completely different debate from what I now have to discuss differently. I'll answer you, Mr. Director. What you said yesterday and you boasted that Croatian Radio-Television, that it could be a role model for other national houses in European countries. You boasted about the Eurovision meeting in Dubrovnik and let it happen. You think that's what you're looking forward to. Well, all of us. I would like not only that technical Croatian radio-television can be a role model for national houses in European countries, but by content and programme. Be assured that a "Latin" in this way as it was the night before last cannot be seen in terms of topics, history, present and future of the CBF in the Federal Republic of Germany. You've lived in France for many years, there are four national televisions. I'm sure one similar Latin can't be seen on any of the national televisions in France, not in Britain on BBC or CNN, not in Italy RAI UNO and RAI DUO. I don't know, and I would prefer it if you could compare Croatia's radio-television and content with national houses that you well know and know better than I do. That would be yours, my first answer to what you spoke twice last night for 15 minutes in the opening and afterwards as director of Croatian Radio and Television. You pointed out for sure what we advocate in the Croatian Parliament and we give you support, freedom of the media, but this freedom of the media must be based on professionalism and is based on the truth and it does not only happen on "Latinica" which has made Croatia's homeland bitter, but also on the emigrated Croatia. It is not unfortunately "Latinica" just one example of what is happening on Croatian television. There are several cases and this is unacceptable and it might not be so terrible for Principal Galic and Mr. Ljevac that "Latinica" did not happen after 15 years of creating the Croatian state and our latest history. Maybe if that "Latin" happened after 50 years and then it was broadcast then they'd all say that they'd listen to one such "Latin" after 50 years and say yes, but listen, it's a history that was 50 years ago. We must not allow either you or the parliamentary representatives, nor the Croatian public to falsify the Croatian history that has been created since 1990 in the truth about the Croatian people. It is created on what every nation has a right, to self-determination, to defense and to freedom. It is from God, from history and mission from the Croatian people. It would not have happened, and it would not have hurt the Croatian people either in the country or in the immigration if the wounds had healed because it was always said my God and the time of the wound throughout. But it's not that fast, it's our latest history. We need to talk about the latest history on both the positive side and the negative side. However, Mr. Director Galic, this is not what is happening, and that is why the people are bitter and I will tell my colleagues that the Croatian people in the emigration know what the history of the Croatian people is because we have created a free and independent state of Croatia in common and have defended them in the evening when that poor "Latinica" as many others were then my phones rang and I was cursed by people from Australia to Oslo. I said if I'm your parliamentary representative, I don't participate in the Croatian Radio-Television program and don't swear to me, I'm not responsible for it, and you're responsible for it yesterday and you put yourself outside the law and you said you weren't responsible. Answer me why you are responsible to this house on Croatian Radio-Television. You had to be responsible for what was set up by the Croatian Parliament. You are appointed by the Croatian Parliament to run this house entirely. You can't say I'm avoiding it. It is for what you are under the law and what you have said under responsibility and not without legal authority, I am responsible. You are responsible in all ways, so if you want to be human, I call you both human and Croatian. And now for what you called me. One of the target groups is Croats in European countries. Then why not secure the block, and I well-intentioned it, a home programme on the first HTV programme that will not be interrupted by foreign shows or movies that are coded and create black holes in the broadcast of the program. This home block should be adapted to the habits of our emigrants at a time when they return from work with the Dnevnik as a central show, so from 17 to 21 hours on the first program which is unlike the second programme and HRT plus is not encrypted. Since many Croats in the outside country have cards and watch all three TV programs why there are no additional shows for them on HRT plus you promised me that. You promised us that the programme towards Croatian emigration would be richer, more diverse, more Croatian, more national, etc., etc. But let me not forget your help to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, your house is, thank you, I am decent and thank you, but you are responsible for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in your own way as I am, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. "The Voice of Croatia", I congratulate you and for "The Voice of Croatia" are, in the Budget, provided the funds of 12 million kuna. Satellite program, satellite program is provided with 2 million and 900 thousand kuna. However, and now I will talk about something that is not said here as you must speak and the Croatian TV programme must be based on the truth, especially when... allow, and especially when it is once again and I stress that Croatian television is national television, that it is not commercial television, that I cannot talk about Croatian television and radio television as well, and I have to speak, and you yourself know that I have a Law on Croatian Radio and Television, and I cannot speak this openly and have no right, as a person, as a citizen of this country to talk about RTL, Novi, OTV and other houses. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Today, the HRT report is being discussed, and there are no discussions about other houses and you can't compare them. However, I'll tell you something else that I thought I'd come to you today in replica, so I doubt if I'll quote you about what you've been shown here for the music program on Croatian TV, for culture and so on. I'm going to quote you and I don't believe you said this: "I would ban all the bans, Pretty Brena as far as I'm concerned can be on HTV", Mirko Galic, director of HRT, Free Dalmatia on 27 November 2005. I can't believe you said that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52906	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52907	And as far as your house is concerned
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52908	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52909	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52910	Replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52911	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Director, so here I am going to replicate Mrs. Babić-Peteričević using the discovered why we probably wouldn't see such a TV show probably on any public European television. Because it's probably the law there that found someone responsible after all. Here I am reading from the Programme Council's report, saying: "In order for the autonomy of editorial and journalistic work, the Council must not review certain shows or other parts of the programme before they are published." Then yesterday we heard that the director must also neither review or see the show before it is published, and only then after the announcement can he possibly correct the errors. Clear mistakes that are then, then irreparable. And we have here reports also further say that there have been individual examples of the work of some journalists, of some unprofessionalism and so on, however, it has been found that they did not occur on purpose but were evaluated, not intentional and trendy but professional failures and errors, and journalists have suffered appropriate consequences due to these failures, according to the HRT's general acts. We'd be interested in what consequences and what consequences, and then we're called here that now we're all going after some editor or manager, so I personally feel very, very, very unfree because I'm being called by the editor of the journal why are we attacking him here? We get called up by someone else to cut their heads off, we cut somebody's heads off, we go in some kind of chase, and so on. I think the principalship is responsible if because of nothing, because it sets up editors and it has to be obvious about their work and someone, someone has to be responsible somewhere and it looks like Latino for example. only the editor and the lawyer's office. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52912	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52913	Mr. President, my colleague. Surely, I compared Croatia's radio-television with houses especially with that house I watched for 30 years, which is CDF, Zweite Deutsche Fenzeu in Germany. How professional that house hurts me less. I am hurt by Croatian television because Croatian television was expected to be a promoter of truth and all the events that are happening in this country, but as far as professionalism is concerned, it is often scheduled, even when the privacy of certain persons is being violated, and when the privacy of people close to me not to tell Mr. Galic as it happened, the privacy of a journalist on TV and one of our parliamentary deputies was immediately covered by the privacy of the two ladies concerned. When your privacy is broken and mine that broke on Croatian TV privacy I didn't have a chance either of those 3 minutes under the Media Law can a statement not read on Croatian TV and I was alone, and then I illegally did not pay for one time Croatian television. I thought they'd invite me to court to prove in that way what I had a right to do. Then they put me in court. The hearing was gone and I started again, I must obey the laws of this country. The MP and I pay again Croatian TV and I am not sorry, but I am not alone that I am offended in the hope that this will never happen again on a national Croatian house such as Croatian TV [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52914	Thank you. We still have three replicas, then after those replicas and any responses to the replica, we'll break up and continue at 3:00. Now we're gonna get those replicas more. Dear Representative Pero Kovačević, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52915	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So all I have to do is relate to this part of my esteemed colleague. In fact, Latina's similar content has been before. We need to be aware of that and about the late president and all but the problem of this last Latina is connected among other things and because of the fact that the day General Gotovina's indictment was read in The Hague and that people realized that it was now an organized trial. But the rebellion of Croatian defenders, the Croatian people is not only according to Latina, but according to this scandalous arrest of General Gotovina and according to the trial of the state, according to the trial of the Homeland War, according to the trial of all of us, and the current government is doing nothing about it. That's the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52916	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52917	Mr. President, my colleague Kovacevic, I said he wasn't the only Latina. And if this came at a very awkward time, and yesterday I said that everything that is going on in Croatia is being translated into all languages. English, German and so on. Just in the evening comes Latina when the indictment is read to the general, to General Gotovina and to the entire leadership, or to the entire Croatian state. She can be interpreted as a confirmation of the indictment. And it's more dangerous than what we're offended. We cannot be offended because we created a Croatian state in the truth. And we have every right to do that. And I repeat once again it is not the only unprofessionalness of this national Croatian house. And I don't give a shit about what I've listed, and unfortunately, that was my life, so I had to listen to them and watch them for 30 years. And I had no right to comment on them, but my television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52918	One notice. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament today will mark the World Year of Physics with an opportunity to meet in the building of the Croatian Parliament in the hall "Ivan Mažuranić", so the interested members of the Committee will take this into account. Another replica is the esteemed representative of Line Cervara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52919	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen from Television. You see, the left side has escaped. She defended Croatian television so that she escaped from the assembly leaving us here and pointing a finger at us that we are against freedom of the media, against television and against everything that is good in this country. No, we give full support to Croatian TV and you work on it, and you work honestly. Prove to the Croatian public that you are not representatives, speakers of only one political ideology, one political ideologie that generates impatience, hatred and... The only attitude, not pluralism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, promote agreement on Croatian national interests and pluralism in addressing all social, economic and other issues of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52920	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52921	Mr. President, colleague Lino, you have also shown us here a gentleman from HRT with Mr. Director Galic that the left side has escaped. Well, this isn't the first time. They run away from the truth, and from our own truth and from our common truth about the work and present of HRT we must not run away but make mistakes not be repeated but better, because HRT, like the Parliament, Croatian Parliament is not our property, Croatian Radio Television is not the property of Mr. Mirka Galić as this assembly does not own us parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52922	And distinguished representative Ivo Lonchar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52923	A colleague of Zdenka Babić Petricevic in her rather emotional speech reminded Mr Galic that yesterday he said he was not in charge of the programme and then asked him, "And what are you responsible for?". My colleague Babić Petričevi and Mr Galić and Mr Rončević and Miss German are the victims of this crazy law that is not on Earth's ball. And I'm going to back it up now. And the President of the Council is the victim of this crazy law, and those who brought it, they ran as they usually run because they don't just manage to clean up. They must have shelter, for them is the best cover of the forest. They're also in '91. The year escaped from this assembly when a declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Croatian state was issued on 26 June. And keep an eye on what kind of law it is, just one example. The availability of funds from the subscription, i.e. the Law on HRT and the Statute of the HRT Article 22, provides that the Director-General may conclude all legal transactions up to the value of each legal transaction of 10 million kuna, and above that amounts, with the prior consent of the Croatian Directorate. And do you know who suggested this principalship? That's exactly the same director he has to ask about business moves about. So here we have one nakarada that these legal provisions have provided the Directorate with one absolute power in the management of HRT, without control of the public's insight. We're talking about public television. What public television? What today's Croatian Radio Television, presented by the public? What public does it represent? Well, it's just fog. I will repeat what I say both yesterday and today. I'm very sensitive when journalists and editors are attacked. Journalists and editors of maximum freedom but also maximum responsibility because it is not someone's freedom of my freedom, and it is happening on Croatian radio. Mr. Editor of the Information Program...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52924	Thank you very much. Replication response. Mr. Lonchart! Replication response, Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52925	Mr. President, colleague Lonchar. My answer, or debate, was not emotional. Perhaps my voice is different when I talk about Croatian history than some of the other colleagues from the Parliament. If I were to talk about Yugoslavia by chance, Yugoslav history wouldn't be emotional. So in the name of this truth let me quote something because it tried to forge Croatian history and the work of Dr Franjo Tudjman in Latin, especially the defence war that we are fighting. The war is on life and death for defence, just won freedom and democracy, but also the very existence of the Croatian people. And under such conditions, we are doing everything to justify the indignation of Croatian people because of the destroyed cities and settlements, homes and factories, and especially because of the terrible crimes against Croatian people, they do not turn into revenge against innocent people who cannot bear responsibility for others. We're doing everything we can to make the rule of law work under conditions of war. Dr. Francis Tudjman. Normally, this way he can't speak or speak the truth to this lady, this woman, because not all women are ladies, nor are ladies all women with radio 101s can't speak of the Homeland War, just as I can't speak of Yugoslavia and Tito.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52926	Resume at 15.00 hours. First in line, the honourable representative of Jure Bitunjac, and Franjo Arabović, Ivan Vučić, Miomir Zuzul, Florian Boras. And it's a list of the remaining MPs, along with four clubs that applied for a five-minute hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52927	... Representative Jura Bitunjac, here you go. [[Home is not saved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52928	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed head director of HRT with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatian broadcasting as the only public television in the Republic of Croatia has the first priority to inform, educate and entertain the citizens of our country, and the fundamental question is does it do so, in what way and to what extent? We are witnessing modern social processes and the increasing influence of the media on social but political life. That is why many today believe that the media, along with executive, legislative and judicial authority, are actually the 4th lever of power in modern societies. Hence comes the logical interest of all the structures of society, including those of politics, to influence the country's media life. Television as the most massive, or most accessible medium today plays a particularly important social role. I personally believe that HRT must further increase the segment of educational educational participation in the HRT programme scheme because it is of particular importance, I would dare say of national interest. I find it difficult not to notice that the competition in the field of electronic media is most directly seen in... increasing and commercialising the percentage of advertising, and at the core of the information and educational part of the programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remind you that unlike other TVs, HRT as public television is the only one who collects the fee paid by all citizens who own radio or television in their possession. What concerns me is the influence of large advertisers on the HRT programme, if you want both objective and professional approach to them. It is known that large advertisers, insurance houses, trade chains, etc., have a major impact on the television programme because because of the large money they invest in marketing, they are increasingly in a position to de facto blackmail the media and thus HRT. Imagine whether a media house will criticise the management of a company that invests hundreds of millions of kuna in advertising. Of course that's impossible. I'd dare say it's a phenomenon so-called. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. This trend is everywhere in the world, including us, and it takes more and more swings with us. I believe that HRT must form more and more systematically and educate our citizens on the most important social issues such as entering the European Union, NATO, promoting the environmental awareness of citizens, globalisation processes in the world and what they bring, economic movements, promoting the values of civil society in preserving traditional values, religious freedoms and tolerance. HTV must promote Croatian national identity and national speciality through an educational and informative programme in an acceptable and popular way, whether it is an area of culture, sport, economy or entertainment. On certain social and political issues, it is possible to face different thoughts, but not in the way that individual editors do, to direct in advance the course of emissions leading to political nihilism and destruction, to result in dangerous and social divisions and to question any system of values. It is inadmissible that public television, the founder of a state-run editorial policy, creates a public consciousness that leads to general relativism, questioning everything. What do Croatian citizens want, what kind of public television do they want? I think we also agree that we all want a modern and interesting European and global but certainly national TV house. HRT is today, right now it's not and it's an undeniable fact. We representatives in the Croatian Parliament can and must answer this question in a way that through existing legal solutions possibly new legal solutions management of HRT achieves a combination of diversity, modern and national. Now let me look back from a few words to the financial part of the report. I think the main indicators are given, and we can discuss them, have different opinions. However, I will remain only on the part relating to claims when it comes to tv fees. On the one hand, and the costs related to this, paying the House of Law Hanžekovic-Radakovic and the other. The point is that on the day of 31.12.2003, claims by tax were 18 million 793 thousand kuna, and on the day of 31.12.2004, 30 million and 990 thousand kuna. While the costs of legal services for the 2003 dealings were 786 thousand kuna and in 2004 on 31.12. 3 million and 962,000 kuna. De facto we have big investments, big costs when it comes to billing, and there's a very opposite thing going on. I also believe that the court costs related to the payment of relations and claims in 2003 amounted to 70,000 kuna, and in 2004, 7 million kuna and 796 thousand kuna. These are indisputable facts that a simple economic analyst might see that something is wrong. Since I've worked long in the municipal system, and I know how state-owned companies like HEP work. So, all those who are related to the greater number of users of their services to handle it in a very simple way, not to pay, not even their legal services are included in the warnings. It is that through an accounting-financial programme every such society has been resolved a model where de facto if you point your finger at the warning button goes to all debtors. That's what HRT per me is about, when it comes to doing business itself, to seeing that here in some way money is not being spent rationally. We all know that any such reminder that, that is, the lawyer's house is charged in the amount of 117 thousand kuna and I would beg to be answered and asked because I know that HRT regardless, means a warning as before the executive procedure is paid regardless of the outcome that will be when it comes to the task itself, if possible and comes to it. On the other hand, in order to have one true picture when it comes to HRT and the financial operations of Croatian broadcasters, there should certainly be one report if it is related to the Public Procurement Act. Let's see what the problems are and whether the Public Procurement Act is, I think HRT belongs to those societies to which it applies, that law. There may be other things we might also see in order not to give criticism to the leadership but to come up with an objective picture when it comes to the financial business of Croatian broadcasters. I believe that given the importance that the media today have in the world and the de fact that for most people it may be the only window in the world, I think that this problem should be considered in complexity. I have been trying and reading these materials, and also consulting a little with my friends came to the conclusion that a report like this is difficult to accept and that I as a representative am simply in a position that with the best will I cannot raise my hand for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52929	Replica, the esteemed representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52930	Mr. President, I would like to replicate to Mr. Bitunjec because here he spoke of everything that has been happening through this all along, what has been discussed here, and I also have to ask him, in an emotional mood, what he thinks about both financing and certain problems when we know the general mood of people in Croatia. According to what is happening and what has happened on TV in recent days, so I ask if something seems to be contrary to the interests and general mood of the citizens of Croatia does it make sense to support such television that is not national television but that we are funding it from these same sources? Is it time to abolish this funding so let it be equal with other televisions, so let it produce programmes based on its own results, its own business and let it create such moods, rather than to be financed by citizens, and the overall activity of the TV and presentation of events in Croatia, respect for Croatian history in such a way as to present itself to the entire Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52931	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52932	Thank you very much. My colleague Pasecky, I absolutely agree with you, but I am also aware that now in Croatia and in general we as a people and as citizens of this country, no matter what political option we belong to, we can have different opinions, even within the same party on any show and it is not controversial. I think that when it comes to the programme itself we can also have different opinions, but when it comes to Croatian-radiotelevision the point is next. If it is public television, and it is, and then it must encourage citizens to look at certain social issues, political issues, economic issues, and all that of one general interest, whether they look at it in the fields of culture, sport, economy or so, that they must go towards reaching a national consensus and we must do it for our sake, but also mainly for new generations because let's be aware that HTV and the "Dnevnik" don't look at just the people who turned out to be old, so 18 years, but also younger, primary school students kind of absorb what the screen presents to them as the most powerful medium. So, it's a very sensitive subject, I just agree, I think that we can reconcile in some way and what's going on in Europe when it comes to a global, this media area, but we need to preserve what's important, which is specific Croatian and I think HRT must be ready for it, and whether this current management is ready for me to answer that question I think I answered in my previous presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52933	Mirko Galić, head director of HRT. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52934	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday I provided information on why Croatian radiotelevision uses the services of the attorney's office and I think that these data were or could be convincing and justify such a decision of ours. In one year, 173,000 executions were submitted. Could it have been our legal service? Total costs fall on prosecutors, pardon the defendants and are charged for the purpose. Croatian-radiotelevision only benefits, not damage. We invested $14 million in the expense of the attorney's office, in the cost of court fees, and we charged 22 million in the coming months and years of these obligations will be charged. So, in this regard, Croatian radiotelevision has acted in the manner of a good master to protect its interests, and thanks to that, and I also want to give recognition to our viewers, we have a very high, almost record response in the performance of their obligations such as no other TV that in one way or in a similar way meets the obligations of its viewers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52935	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52936	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that law firms and law firms are the only ones who can solve this issue. I was in my presentation talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52937	That's not said by the director, don't correct the incorrect allegations, don't comment, pollomime with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52938	It is, in fact, that it does not mean that during the executive procedure you will be charged in full, means for the principal debt, which is a commitment to television and that it will be charged for the executive cost, because at the stage of the executive procedure if the citizen in question pays the principal the executive procedure ceases. It's the experience of all courts, and that's why our courts are all over and I can say that only in Sinj there are some 7,000 cases that have not been solved yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52939	Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52940	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. Before I say anything about this report, I'd like to not know or protest or somehow, I've just received this moment's isolated opinion from Mr. Ante Zuzul, a member of the HRT Programme Council. I read it in a hurry and I don't understand why we didn't get this two days ago. Just to point out, Mr. Ante Zuzul is a member of the HRT Programme Council. ... Bio, let's do, let's say [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, so he knows what it's about, he didn't write this letter for nothing, he was inside that period. [[Intruder: A month.]] Another thing, I wouldn't want anyone to take this debate personally today or yesterday. Mr. Galic, no one here speaks of you as Mirko Galic, we are talking about your obligations as director of Croatian radiotelevision, as editors. Don't take anything personal. Now I'm going to move on to the report. How will we talk about a Report when we have a current situation that in Croatian, a few days ago someone said we have no sports or sports, and on Croatian television we can't track any Croatian national league, not in any sport, not in basketball, not in handball, water polo, volleyball, in any sport we don't have a place to follow, only one league we can track which is under strong sponsor because the team is sponsored and must obviously be monitored on Croatian TV. You'll tell me we lost the program. So let's get him back, let's send a request to the Croatian Parliament that HRT plus be unencrypted, be normal. It's a clear example. Today at 18:30, one of the let's say the most trophy Croatian clubs "Cibona" plays in Turkey and we have a transfer to HRT plus. That by my confirmation that I could find out 1% of the population of Croatia is watching and can watch. I don't look at him personally because I can't look at him. That's one thing. Another thing we're going to do, I said let's go, yesterday we had a debate about a show that I long ago, four years ago condemned while I was still playing and living in Slovenia, it's "Latinica", I called it "Cirilica" in public. I stand behind it today. Gentlemen, on the sixth anniversary of the death of the president, the first president of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman, we give such a show instead of passing the mass for President Tudjman. If we're not going to carry the mass, then we're transferring the memorial. So let's give some in the evening, let's do some of his exposure. Let's say our children can see who this great man was and not that my daughter asks me in the morning, forgive me for this voice, as they say about our Francis. Then I had to explain to her who was talking and why she was talking. Gentlemen, we are offended, injured, especially by parliamentary representatives. No one defends us, we're left to ourselves and the public. Who defended you, please, Mr. Letica, when he said on Croatian television that he was smuggling into the tram, who was defending him. And you'll see in two days how one editor, one journalist will defend himself. Gentlemen, he's the one who set you up. I stand behind my words. Seven days ago, he made a deal with a television show, and today he's gonna turn out to be a scapegoat, because you're gonna have to get rid of him. After that show, it can't survive on the Croatian radio show that I pay for, and we all get together. So what's it gonna be? A variety of NGOs will report. I won't name it. Well, we don't care if we listened to them, we'd be living in Yugoslavia today. In person, in 89, he made himself available to his country and to Franji Tudjman. I wasn't afraid of the European Community either, and I played basketball for the Yugoslav national team two days later, I had to play. So I'm not afraid to say today about my country that I think it's a good thing that some things change, not that we cut off some heads. God save me. As a Catholic, no one ever taught me to take someone's head off. I appreciate you as a man, Mr. Director. I know your family. I'm a very good friend of yours, and an honest, honest boy. So don't take any of you personally, but we can't take it like this anymore. I can't let any of us see anything nice about our Croatia but all the worst. So we're compared to taking parliamentary representatives, taking money from travel expenses, and for that child who was born, God forgive me, unfortunately to all of us without eyes, he can't be paid travel expenses. So who protected us. We are exposed to a mockery of shame that I was ashamed to get out on the street that day in the city of Zagreb. I didn't take anything, and I'll never take anything that belongs to me. a clean salary in the Parliament, because I don't care. But there's no one to tell us after the denial, so gentlemen aren't all equal. We're gonna go back to that old system when we were all the same. Or if it's not so almost different, it can't be. We had a few days ago one let's say conflict in my basketball alliance. We immediately came on TV for two days because it was a conflict. If anything was constructive, I don't know if we would be. In shows, in the Lord's Log every day since I've been in Parliament, I'm going to write twelve hours of what's going to be in the journal. Today I said that Kapraljevic would be the first news and was in the news first news. That's the problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That Milanka Opacic would be the first news in the Parliament when she came with a basket and she was, and he wasn't the prime minister and Minister Schuker wasn't even shown and he was talking about the budget. That's what we're tearing down. Or we're tearing it down like it's going to be HDZ's TV. So what's HDZ's 90th and 89th TV? Which one was it? Which one was television a year ago? HDZ? So we won the election. Well, we'll win in a year or two. In four years, we'll win because we can't cheat on the Croatian people. If we cheat on the Croatian people, I'll be the first to step out of it, first. I ask Mr. Peru Kovacevic to let me speak. Maybe somebody's got a problem with what I'm saying. I think I'm obliged to speak. What's next? This morning when I came to the Assembly, I met a neighbor who was going to therapy. I drove him to the hospital to do therapy. Do you know what he told me? You know, Franjo, Mr. Neighbouring, we don't have the money to buy newspapers. We see what we see on TV, it's over. Everything they hear on TV, on Croatian television, that's true. My mom says today when they say on TV that tomorrow the rain is going to take the nylons to cover the tobacco. That's how much she trusts television. And that same mother of mine on Monday, my dear editor, had a pressure of 220 with 150 after "Latin" because she gave two sons to defend Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52941	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Slaven Letica Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52942	I will take the opportunity to thank my esteemed colleague Franji Arabovic for the celebrated Croatian basketball player. I'm glad he mentioned the opinion of his colleague, Ante Zuzula. The alphabet is a democracy that applies in the work of all bodies that separate opinions have privileged treatment. Mr. Leviaq, I'm asking you nicely since I've been in touch with Zuzul for a long time. You've been referring to some rules of procedure. There is no tradition of a European which would not deliver an opinion to all MPs. Your report without this has been falsified. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. President, by tomorrow, that all MPs will have this separate opinion that the programme council's report would be worth the debate and vote at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52943	Second replica, the respected representative Franjo Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52944	A colleague, Franjo Arabovic, spoke with a lot of inspiration and emotion. From all that I would draw from his discussion, especially this need for these public content which is shining but we cannot clearly see it through Croatian television. A small nation as a Croatian people does not have the right to such a kind of luxury that such values, such content, pushes under the carpet somewhere. So, they need to be shown that this one cohesion, one association of this people, would be realized in these conditions in which we live today. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about why we'll have new obligations tomorrow. In this respect, the European Directive on television without borders, which includes public and commercial television, recommends all televisions to have a minimum of 50% domestic and European programme in their programmes, means domestic and European. While the other 50% of the programs can be non-European content. What does that mean now? It means that this obligation will come very quickly to public television and then to commercial television. This means, if we want to achieve this standard, that we will be forced to allocate significantly more money, knowledge and energy in the production of our own programme, to preserve and promote our own identity, and we will not be able to have so much space to promote this identity widely unless we have quality packaging and quality presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52945	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52946	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Representative, for the replica. So I stick to that old folk's "help yourself and God will help you.". Therefore, if we ourselves make such a Law on Croatian Radio Television, we do not have to fear Europe. We must represent our own, our views, our own interests. No one can tell us from the outside what our diary will be like, what will ours be any other show? I'm not saying we have to edit, don't give me God, but we're just asking it to be objective. To be painted with a Croatian, Croatian attitude. That's the attitude of the Croatian people. Just about that, that's what I'm curious about. And I don't care about anything else. I'm not interested in what some editors have already gone to private, private television without their bosses knowing it. Well, that hurts me, so we have what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52947	And a third replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52948	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, I just want to be a little more complete on the presentation of the distinguished colleague Arapovic, who has no third programme, is not guilty of Croatian radio-television and this leadership of Croatian Radio-Television. It is guilty of the former assembly of the Croatian Parliament who passed such a law and said that there are no third programs but only that two programs and should not be asked for them but tell the Government to submit such a bill because the Government... You can file the bill yourself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can all go to the assembly together and make that injustice right. That's right. Regarding the work of the Programme Council, listen to me, the fact that Mr. Zuzul has submitted a separate opinion does not mean anything because this report has been shortened on the Programme Council and I can say that he probably filed a report because he knew that he would no longer remain in this Programme Council and it cannot be said that the Programme Council is not doing his part of the job. It's working anyway. About this whole thing it's exactly what you're saying but you're forgetting one thing that the last days before this Latina happened a lot of things that, and that Latina was just a trigger and for... Croatian defenders and everyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Remember the waterfront in 2001 and remember Monday this year. There is therefore the answer to all that and to the relation of Croatian defenders to both the relationship and the former and current authorities to all those who, in The Hague, are as indictees, who are suspects and that is the whole problem. It's not all Latino's fault. It's the politics of both the former and the present. And it can't be said that everything is negative on Croatian television. There's a lot of interesting things. And I will also never be in favour of the fact that in the first news there must always be either Prime Minister or Prime Minister or Minister Shuker or Mrs Opačić or someone else, let them arrange but let them report professionally, professionally and objectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52949	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52950	... The replica isn't even addressed to me for my exposure. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Who said everything's negative on TV? Not one word. I haven't said a word about negativity. Haaga? Well, it has nothing to do with Croatian television. The Hague has to do with the Croatian government, with the Croatian Parliament, my dear Kovacevic. And you, if you want what I said about Opacic, Sanader, Mr. President Sanader and Minister Shucker, I'll tell you. 62 seconds was Milanka Opačić. The prime minister was 28 seconds, and the minister was giving, defending the budget for 0 seconds. And Pero Kovacevic, let's look back a year and see how long you've been, and how many on HTV?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52951	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52952	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Directors with Croatian TV associates from the previous debate in these two days on Croatian television, it is evident that on Croatian television there is chaos that a well-organised group uses to promote ideology and implement a programme of destruction of national states and manipulation of media space for the purpose of left monopoly of the government in Croatia. The last night's Latina show must be proof of that. What I have read now is from the part of the letter that I received from the employees of Croatian radio and television and which is much worse but I have made it easier and I did not intend to read the quote from that letter, but after the night before last, believe me that I did not hesitate at all. What we saw earlier last night inexplicably, tendently, and what would make me resent in one word disgustingly, I wanted, in an emotional one-time state, I wanted you to believe the TV show on the balcony and never bring it into the room again. Never, I wanted to give up not only public television, but television at all. On the anniversary of the funeral of the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman, the show can only be organised by one who does not wish well for the Croatian people. Croatian defenders, Croatian people organise meetings in Split, on the Split coast, in all cities, squares, support for General Gotovina. We've had so many debates in this House and everywhere. We're being tried by the International Community, tried by The Hague, guilty by the Serbs. Oh, we're not gentlemen, you see. It's our fault, the Croats themselves. These are the editors who run these programs. Well, that show will certainly be seen in court in The Hague. What's she saying? What kind of evidence is that? These are transcripts that can't even give the greatest enemy to anyone, but fortunately, they're not true. Your mandate was marked by internal chaos and constant squabbles. Return to failed personnel from competitive TV, scandalous and inefficient exclusive contracts, drop in volume and quality of the programme, and the importance and impact of public television. The necessary rationalization has not been carried out. The scandalous fact has been undetected that Croatia's radio-television in 2003 had 409 employees more compared to 2002 despite the removal of the 3rd programme and the reduction of hours of the broadcast programme. As a constant, there is concern for left-wing personnel who are the exhibits of the new assembly scheme after the birth of the left-wing concept in the elections in the Republic of Croatia. From the failed TV they were returned to high positions pro-opportional journalists of which many additional... exclusive contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, Sinisha Svilan's transition to HRT shows without consequence that the alleged protection of the programme through these contracts was a front for the distribution of media power. As mentioned, attractive inquisitions are presented to the public by bringing left-wing, left-wing exhibits from competitive television. Their primate continues after defeating the left coalition in the elections. What to say, what to tell editors of information programs and other shows on Croatian Radio and Public Television, what to say about editors who were speakers of political parties on the left in the previous elections? Can these people be objective? Is that, if that's objective journalism then we no longer have to talk about journalistic objectiveism. But that's not an accident, there's more. The new scheme has been mixed up in such a way as to lead the promotion of one option. It's being extra... and editorial policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, the daily show "Meridian 16" forms that have 15 years of tradition on HTV, TV selection, Image on Image, Motriste, Meridian 16 will disappear in the absence of one show in which it was possible to monitor the bilateral and diplomatic activity of the state, critically and analytically determine the topics of European integration and regular initiatives, and more extensively monitor the work of the Croatian Parliament. Instead, a show is being introduced that will determine the theme of the day by hosting different experts, announcing a dramatic reduction in guests from politics. Since Croatian public life and society are systematically cleansed during the 50th anniversary of the communist government by opponents of socialism, especially in academic life, and especially after 1971, it is clear that these so-called independent experts in their area will be focused on further encouraging them with political party speakers as editors of these emissions. I'll also look back at some financial moments. HRT administration draws money from Croatian broadcasting and subscribers through external productions. HRT technology and workforce are naive to private production houses which then sell their products recorded for HRT resources on HRT resources for high fees. According to the data, which you may request an investigation Sunday afternoon is done with 11 external productions, and 1 minute of this program costs 2 thousand kuna. The fee for this show is 80 thousand kuna. In doing so, the emissions are recorded by means of a vehicle owned by Croatian broadcasters. He has been persistently trying by some MPs, mentioning the director's memory, cutting down the Croatian Radio Television Administration. No, not a word. I can personally say that I like Principal Galic. But we also need to know that neither the Croatian Parliament can legally replace the Croatian Radio Television Directorate. This is done by the Council of Croatian Radio Television, appoints and resolves the Director, and the Director sets up editors. Therefore, it is not this Parliament's intention, but that Croatian radiotelevision be truly public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52953	Thank you. Krunoslav Markovović, a respected representative, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52954	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what I'm replicating it says, what to tell Croatian TV journalists. So they should be told that the side that they do not have to continue with them, not with the body, but with the spirit, and their spirit was always common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52955	Carmela Caparin, second replica, esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52956	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would replicate a colleague who speaks who can and who cannot replace the director and director of Croatian Radio Television. So here's what one man, Mr. Zuzul, said, is a member of that council. I'll quote it: "A well-organised minority associated with interest and a pyramid of hidden power once again confirms the post-modern dictatorship of the minority over the sleeping majority.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52957	Dear Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As most of those present know, I rarely appear for individual debates in this honorable home. This time I came forward because I think it's a subject that's wider than political divisions, which is wider than our differences that we can have in this House and that's wider about discussing a few people who behave better or worse their function. I think it's time we talked about something that really matters to our society. And I think that I do not overestimate, nor underestimate, but give a realistic assessment of the importance of television in society to everyone, every state community, especially in a transition society like Croatia. However, I must declare myself immediately. I can't vote for this report, I'll vote against it. For personal, very personal reasons, I'll come to principle later. I was convinced in my own skin that the report was not in accordance with the law, for example. in one point, point 7 says that prior to publication, the content of information will be checked in accordance with recognised standards of independent journalism. Unfortunately, I know that in the case of Croatian television, it is nowhere near the truth. Because in my own case, to be more precise, in the case of Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzula, that was not the case. Three times on Croatian television, a man who falsely represented himself appeared on Croatian television, three times. I warned Croatian television about it, I was talking about it in front of this honorable House, it didn't change anything. A man showed up three times misrepresenting himself. Nowhere in the world can that happen either in autocracy or in democracy. This can only happen in Croatia where, let's be open, the Croatian broadcasting state in the country and other rules apply to it, other criteria apply to it. I also talked about the director of Croatian television, I talked about this and the journalistic society. Of course nothing. I didn't want to talk too loud because I was a politician back then. If I was a citizen of this country, I think you'd be a lot louder than that. But that's why my conscience would be restless if I accepted a report like this, because that dear gentlemen is not true. So I'll vote against him. But I didn't answer for it, because I don't want to talk about myself or my case, and I could talk a lot about it. I volunteered because I came back to this country because I love her, because I appreciate her, because I wanted my children to grow up in her. And I left one comfortable life for that. Of course, it is not Croatian television's fault if it is not. That's right. However, I was convinced that Croatia is worse, unfortunately, public and national television. And I'm sorry she doesn't have a colleague on the other side, worse than she used to be. I used to learn something from that TV. I believe most of those sitting here. I unfortunately don't watch TV in my house today. Because you can't learn from it positively. Because it draws from other worlds than those in which I would like to live, in which I would like my family to live and to raise my children. And in that I see a big difference between public and commercial television. I lived in a world dominated by commercial television. But there was a public television. And the difference between them was huge. Commercial television wanted to earn money primarily, but be careful and it had to serve, or recognize, some of the principles of the profession. One of the principles of the profession is truth. But out of principle they went after the money. Public television serves some higher, some social values. I'm sorry, gentlemen, I don't see it in Croatia anymore. Because if I watch, what is it, what are the principles on Croatian television, then it is that work has no value at all. Because if you do, you'll only be fools. Folks, these values you have. If you're a girl, so if you grow up to be hot, you can become a model and marry a football player, if you're a boy, then you have a chance to be a football player. I don't underestimate either one or the other. But they're not worth it. It's part of the population that goes that way. I have friends in one world and another, so I don't get it wrong. If you don't have that option, then you're not so hot or you don't know how to ball so well, you still have different millionaires, different lottos, you get the right lucky, and you've found the way to success in life. But it's not like that. What if you're the vast majority of the rest of the people? I'll come up with the idea of a nation later. Then you have just that to be frustrated with the government which is whatever it is because the government is to blame you for not being in a position to be a football player, model, or millionaire, or to draw a lottery lotto in Croatia. And that's the truth that spreads about the world through our living rooms in our house, in our home from night to night. And let's not kid ourselves, television is not a mirror of reality television creates reality and that's what personally touches me about it. As once young and once a little older psychologist I did a series of research on the impact of the media on children especially, and not only me but a huge number of research has shown how and how much media can affect children. We don't have to argue about this at all, we just need to accept the facts or not. Television is raising our youth, raising it in the direction it shows as a model, and the model is this, be football players or millionaires otherwise be frustrated citizens who are going to attack today this, tomorrow that, yesterday, some other or third government. Now I understand that we live in a market society, and I ended up living in different companies, from Switzerland to America, and I saw how it is in other countries. That's not true. It's not like that. Public television has survived and remained as public television, serving some other principles, and it is not easier for them, gentlemen dear, not underestimating you, of course, it is not easier for them than it is for you here. Imagine what it's like to stay in America next to all those TVs that have power, that have money, but they've survived and they're looking at each other and they're offering different values in the world than we have, and that's why at one point I came to the conclusion that it's the easiest thing for me to have a TV at home and then I started to wonder, but look, it's wrong. I learned something from that television in my youth, in my youth after me, and I'm preventing my children from looking at it, because unfortunately I've concluded that I can only learn wrong from it. That public television is in our case and national television, it's not in all cases, but in our case it is. I personally think there's good reason for that. And once again, I say, I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague on the other side, because we don't have to be different about everything. Look, I've lived in different countries, my kids have been lucky or unhappy to go to different schools, and every day, going to that school, she's started saying good-bye to the nation and to the state. Try to imagine what kind of joke our national and public television would make the school in Croatia begin with a greeting from the nation and state. Just imagine! They were also part of schools where they had before school mass, it is a matter of their choice or of my choice, again very... try to imagine that Croatian public and national television could mock that in which case it happens with us. I don't think I'm a bit of an exaggeration, I think it's the truth that we've been talking about all this time and I don't care how anyone understands me, I'm not saying this because I'm a member of the HDZ, I'm of course proud to be a member of the HDZ, I'm not talking because I want to change management, I want to be very open. Mr. Galic, I always thought he was one of the best journalists, I remember him from those tough times in the '90s, but I'm not comfortable with a few things. It's unacceptable for me to have a few distinguished ladies and gentlemen here who say it might be, but there's nothing we can do about it. Excuse me, please don't sit there. And it is even more unacceptable for me that the Croatian Parliament, which means no one in the Croatian state can say anything about what and how you are doing on behalf of the citizens of this country. And that's why I think you should think about whether you can do something or not. I think this is your conscience exam, not political pressure, not HDZ's decision. I will honestly tell you I'm a member of the party's presidency and I guarantee that no one has ever made a decision to change someone and cut off someone's head, but I think it's a good thing to ask all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52959	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52960	Congratulations on this presentation. I'd like to correct just one incorrect quote when my distinguished colleague, Zuzul, said the most important thing is to be a ballman or a model. So when that doesn't go away, Mr. Representative, now the most important thing on Croatian television is to be a representative, to be a privilegeary and to throw money and humiliate everything, like we do. That's what's most important right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52961	Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52962	Mr. Zuzul said he was learning about television in his own time. I've studied, too, they've studied many. Can you learn from Croatian television today? Dear Mimir, that's fine. What are the values on Croatian television today on certain shows, because I have never generalised, I will not generalise now, national, and Croatian broadcasting should be national public television, it is national Ustasha, fascist and backward. Religious and Catholic is clerofastic. Historically, we can't talk about our history. Imagine someone questioning today, so-called. Antifascism. I talked about true anti-fascism here a dozen times in the Parliament, but about the quasi anti-fascism that today is full of Croatian television, we are immediately enemies, we are bandits, we are fascists. So these are the values that are being promoted there. I know my colleague, Miomire, that you've been persecuted and I've been watching, it's been hard for me, but believe me, I've been persecuted. But I find it hard to see my dear friend and colleague Mirko Galic, who was a great journalist, admired his texts, but today he is at the head of a house that promotes the values he and I have fought and that he and I and a group of 20 other people have been persecuted in the worst possible way. That hurts! It insults me! All the time I've been saying press freedom never enough. The press needs to be given maximum freedom, but also maximum responsibility. And what do we have today? We don't have any sanctity on Croatian television today. For the journalist is the sacred God, for the journalist is the truth of the sacred. And how do we present the truth on Croatian television today? We mock all national values, and we make people at least, forgive the expression, monkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52963	Replicate response, Honorable Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52964	Thank you very much. What I would really like to explain, although in my case it is impossible to single out the fact that I also lived through a certain very difficult period, let us be open here for Croatian television. However, I would have preferred to discuss it if I hadn't had to talk about it. I'd be a hypocrite if I didn't mention it, but I'd like to answer to an esteemed colleague named Lonchar. What I was saying further is really what I think, and I would think that Croatian television has never touched me either positively or negatively. I could repeat what Mr. Hebrang had already said, in a year and a half while I was Minister on Croatian TV, I was usually a frequent guest on Croatian television for which, for these or those reasons, I don't know. In a year and a half when I was a minister, I mostly came there just to defend myself against something, and never to talk about what was my job. But let me do it one more time. I can't not mention it because the rest of it, I'm speaking out of personal frustration, but trust me as much as you can believe, I think it's a phenomenon we're talking about, and that's that away from some kind of public service, serving a general goal, no matter how much it sounds like a phrase, but it exists and it has to exist. It has been happening since Croatian television, unfortunately, more and more. I don't know if he can come back at all, but maybe he can and that's why I wanted to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52965	Second replica, Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52966	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard a brilliant analysis of a psychologist, how public television works on viewers, but such psychologists, truth not so good, but much more experienced in mobilising an idea has our Croatian television as well. It's in it, and I have to say now about Professor Zuzul's speech, it's definitely got a team of experts doing a typical media mopping on individual politicians. I'm a witness because I was a colleague of Zuzula in the government, which was happening in certain affairs, and what was seen on the screen. It's two worlds, it's two truths, it's a gunshot, a political shot by one man, conscious, intentional. Because there were those of us who could testify, but we were never invited. I personally have also experienced this for several years on Croatian television, but I do not want to talk about myself. I just want to say one thing. Whenever you want to correct the truth on Croatian television, then you are accused of interfering with the program. We've never, ladies and gentlemen on television, interfered with the program. We just wanted the truth, the objective television. And that's why, unfortunately, I have one seemingly unfulfilled vision myself. In Croatia, we have independent public television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52967	Third replica, respected representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52968	Mr. President, Mr. Zuzul's representative has encouraged me, he mentioned football and football. Two and a half years ago, I had seizures and trauma over a boy of Serbian nationality. All of a sudden, the press came into my office, started taking pictures, asking questions. And he says, the boy cried for not playing football, and he played but not in the selection with the children of the dead defenders, but in the county selection. I answered, and our kids were crying in '91, but not because of football, but because their parents took them, and they never came back. Then, the former prime minister, Mr Racan and the current president of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic called on the boy to come and it was a month before the elections. My client protected me, I thank her. Today, boys don't mention it, don't call it guests, but the Croatian Democratic Community should have been accused of committing a crime against children. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52969	Replicate response, Honorable Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52970	Thank you. What the esteemed representative now said reminded me of one thing I personally think about and talked about in the world many times, and in Croatia many times. Essentially, what is ahead of us as a people, as a nation, and then broader is the question that in Croatian is the closest term of reconciliation, but it is not really the same meaning as "reconsilation". Unfortunately, and unfortunately, the fact that some of our parliamentary deputies have discussed here differently does not go in this direction and unfortunately, emissions do not go in that direction. But to stay on the tight topic. If so, Mr. Galic and you were talking about the conflict today. I am not in conflict with you or Croatian television. I try to think as someone who has the right and duty to represent a part of Croatian citizenship, but I find it unacceptable that someone starts last night's journal as if it were a declaration of war. Who's the one who's attacking the Parliament to announce the attack? Now that they've already called me, I mean positively as a psychologist, let me say, that's the opposite. I think that Croatian television has declared war on the Croatian Parliament in its sense of supremacy, not to say arrogance. It started before the quasi-privileged attack. I didn't use them, and I don't see any of my colleagues using them. But it continues in this story now. We are not at war against Croatian television. We are, if you will, in a common struggle to have as much public television as possible and the ability to communicate properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52971	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52972	I was very pleased to hear the discussion of my fellow Members, because indeed from some discussions because of the personal, deep frustrations that this published and unpublished war suggests, some people have really discussed as being editors of some news shows. It's really big conceptual problems. The absence of professionalism he pointed to on a personal example. So neither double-checking information is what bothers Croatian television. I sent a volunteer proposal for an ethical code that was made for the New York Times, the BBC and two US national television networks before those parliamentary elections. If this ethical code was immediately lost, as I recall, Mr Galic, today adopted on Croatian television, then we would be deprived of the many problems we face today. And the problems that my colleague Zuzul was talking about are the difficult problems that we have to deal with together. Because to create a modern television that will not go with the trend that Croatian television has set out to preserve its visibility, it is only tomorrow that it must begin to resolve itself. And with joint effort from both the High House and the leading Croatian intellectual institutions and the editorship of Croatian television. And many editors, and I mean Rončević, are simply not up to the task.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52973	And respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52974	Thank you. Well, I'd like to replicate my colleagues on one common tendency. He and I both love classical music very much. Me by profession, he by pleasure. And to that I'm going to connect what it means to me or what it would mean in one part of public television. You see, fellow Zuzul. I think public television would mean that if, on January 1st, the following year, the diary started with a sentence: "This is the year of Boris Papandopool, this is the year of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart." Namely, both composers, one of our national very, very prominent in the world, and the other worlds have big anniversarys next year. However, for such a first announcement in the national journal, we need editors who know something, who are educated, who are intellectuals. Until we get to that, we can't expect public television in this segment of culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52975	Replicate response, Honorable Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here again he never knows if it's luck or an accident. I had the opportunity to live on different continents and in different countries. My personal favorite TV show was so-called. "art program" that exists in part of America. One non-profit show where only, only, culture, primarily music, but otherwise culture is actually broadcast. I do if you really had the opportunity and pleasure in life to do whatever I want, I think you'd try to initiate one of those kind of radio stations. I know it's like that, or television. Such a thing is not in this Croatia, at this moment possible. But Croatian television that still lives for general interest and of general interest should move in this direction. And what Mrs. Advocacy said today, it's not acceptable that because you don't give the editor the show that does that beautiful opera show, not because I'm an opera fan. Among other things, that's why I'm a fan of the opera I saw on Croatian TV, but you can't watch the opera for 10 minutes or 30 minutes, today 30 minutes, and next week. Shut her down or let her go. The Croatian radio we actually heard more or less positive about, but in this context let me say. The third program of Croatian radio praises a valuable idea, but first you can't hear, I don't know why, I don't know why, I don't understand technical reasons, and second thing, let's be open and something of classical music lovers will stop being lovers if they listen all day long Croatian radio. There is space, I think it's up to you to do it, and it's up to us to help you, or let's say gentlemen dear, if you can't do it, forgive me, don't do your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52977	Dear Representative Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52978	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll read my speech. In the criticism of the work of HTV, we were often preceded by exaggeration and replied that we were not ordinary representatives of the larger experts than the very set of paid bodies and services of HTV, which allegedly consisted of great experts. Not one of us is an expert on everything, but the fact that we pay HTV so expensively gives us the right and the duty to point out the obvious and grave mistakes of this institution in order to protect the interests of those who chose us, but also the general, national and social interests. So I will classify the objections into three groups by claiming that such examples and serious errors of each species can be found hundreds of times more in just one month. My first complaint points to a systematic spread of ignorance coming from HTV. It is impossible to list all errors of this kind in reading foreign words and speech about natural and social sciences. In natural sciences most often under mere theories from sensationalist initiatives create the final facts. That's how we're about to be threatened by the end of the world by some meteors, pandemics, etc., it shouldn't be on national television. Here are some examples of ignorance. On September 7, 2005, TV calendar claimed Carlo the Great ruled in the 5th century, and the truth is that Carlo the Great ruled in the 8th and 9th centuries. John Paul II. He apologized because the Catholics killed the evangelists. He needs evangelicals, while the evangelicals made up the Gospels, and they were not killed by Catholics. September 9th TV "Dnevnik" Elizabeth Gojan repeats wrongly after everyone else for the hundredth time in New Orleans, instead of Orlins, New Orleans. TV "Dnevnik" September 19th, Mislav Bago bomb in the country of the embassy that holds the presidency of the European Union. In addition to these ignorances and errors, typical errors stemmed from the slavery of the Vukovar language and spelling. In short, we have been taught wrongly, often from their own ignorance and by the Wolf, but that is no reason for us to support the further spread of this ignorance. HTV is an institution that can contribute best and best and most massively to the corrections of these gaps of Vukovar and universal ignorance primarily of Western culture, and HTV today acts exactly the opposite. My second objection is the ignorance of the editors themselves. The editors are on HTV, as are the leaders of the old knowledge that was worth communism, and now they can only interfere and do nothing to be used in. The grammar and dictionary of Croatian language are catastrophic. The accent is still a lot worse. It's inadmissible and every other language mess on public television. Of course, direct conversations with citizens and various acting shows and works of art are a shame, but when journalists and speaker on HTV serve as a regional accent or dictionary. We in the Parliament are allowed to talk like that, but on HTV, public television is not to be spoken against language norms and laws. And other ignorances on HTV are widespread. You can also see the ultimate disregard for Croatian history as September 9th first programme 23 and 30 minutes for the Krbaška polje is said to be the site of the biggest Croatian casualties in history, and I ask you what are Macelj or Blyburg? The same show states that contributions for Croatian victims are collected by charity, charity is given to poor people and poor people, and this can be about gifts. The TV calendar claims that after Italy's capitulation on September 9th, '43. etc., the capitulation of Italy was September 8, '43. A year. All the news at the end of August, part of the quote said: "Japanese mail has been estimated at 3 trillion U.S. dollars.", finished quote, which is a million times too much because there were supposed to be 3 trillions. Several times that day, a repeated announcement that is a million times exaggerated shows that they have no idea of neither the economy nor the language nor the simplest calculation because the annual budget of the United States is about a million times smaller than that amount. Trillion in Croatian has 18 digits, i.e. Zero while a trillion has the 12th edition of Dragan Nikolic's contribution, the information programme has not been corrected while he has been publishing such nonsense all day. TV News September 21st 12h Simon Vicental instead of Zimon, September 22nd, the capital of Texas Huston instead of Austin, East German secret police always call "stasi" instead of "stazi", November 8th and 9th repeatedly about the police watch in France, so it is forbidden to sell gasoline instead of banning minors to sell gasoline. November 18th "Dnevnik" 19 hours and 30 minutes now, according to the Penal Code, is only punishable if the private prosecutor proves that the journalist's goal was only to do harm. It's just stupid, enough to read Articles 200 and 204. Penalty and to see that's not the case. HTV has a duty to spread knowledge, not ignorance. She's doing everything the opposite. My third objection is the danger of enslavement to the market. HTV is in a constant race for money, but it's still ridiculous when we have a Parliament that in one way or another constantly approves of substantial sums, significant sums of money commending it commercially. In that race, HTV often sacrifices the most fundamental truth, and thus harshly damages its viewers. Here's an example, October 31st, the 1st Live Life program around 17 hours about 15 minutes advertises his firm with parade fences on not wanting to harm competitors, but they're really doing the wrong thing, his firm is the best while a journalist naively under quotes: "Why is there so few people saving in a housing savings facility," and this one says, "Yes, only 500 thousand people.". So, a clean commercial. The second danger is related to the profit of promoting sensationalism. And that leads to the confusion of the people. To attract as many sponsors and advertisers as possible, HTV competes in primitive entertainment and sensationalism. Since I'm running out of light, I'm going to give my speech with the record according to my rules of procedure. I'll just have another sentence, two more. This Assembly of Ladies and gentlemen, has the right to expect HTV to be led by people who are truly and fundamentally and not only out of the bill loyal to the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people and democracy, people of world knowledge and broad and dynamic orientations, people who have not drawn up a network of family-like relationships that hinder and prevent the development of a real dynamic and interesting but responsibility and constructive public television programme. Some on HTV and even in the sports newsroom say they no longer order plates on the door with names of persons but son, daughter, daughter, daughter-in-law, son-in-law and so forth. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will conclude in the end that HTV is public and that HTV is a house but we must never allow it to be a public house.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52979	Replica's respected representative, Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52980	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow MP, it is really impossible to list all the mistakes they make on Croatian TV sites and don’t be surprised because it’s really no wonder and I’ll quote you what the nearest member of the programme council has no influence but just give an opinion. Today, I quote, news on national television as well as on national television programs are mainly decided by the electors of the legal hierarchy of the directorship, not by professionals with respect to the professional code, or by the chosen experts who can identify the quality of news and information needed and important for the total of national and public matters. Thank you. It's a finished quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52981	Vladimir Stengl's next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52982	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Boras, HRT has one excellent language show called "From the Language Treasury". But at the same time, this report says that HRT has correspondence in Novi Gradiška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52983	Thank you. Third Honored Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52984	My colleague Boras, I know from experience that there is an extremely professional team of linguists on Croatian television. On Croatian TV we have 22 lecturers, on Croatian Radio 8. These are highly educated people who know Croatian well, and with Croatian they also know some other languages. The problem is what? The problem is, we go back a little bit when the most famous for the crime and the evil Croatian doctor without a name with two last names brought in a few dozen gunmen, journalist gunslingers and these journalists were recruited by a group of people we're talking about yesterday and today. It's a group of anarcho-liberal journalists who don't have any sanctity and who think that the meaning of life is tied in the knots of their tie, and neither do they know what life means, nor know what a tie is. And here, I'll tell you how written they are to you. One of them came to the lecturer in his day, and I was on TV at the time and today he's a prominent journalist of this journalism that we talked about from the S.T.A.T. in the '90s "Hear a painful de tell me as Croatian Iraq or Iran says.", and then he asked "What Ustasha Act did Ante Starcevic have during NDH," and then he asked Eugen Kvaternik, leader of the Rakovic Rebellion of 8 October 1871, asking him how could this Ustasha police chief get the square in the Quaternik square, etc. There's a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52985	And respected representative Marko Turic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52986	Dear Mr. President, listening to the esteemed representative of Florian Boras where he spoke of harmfulness isn't all that. Maybe as a longtime clinician, he'd take it more handsomely, but some of the things they have as a consequence for our citizens are far bigger and that's next. On "On the edge of science" shows guests are always some suspicious healers so-called "on the edge of science". alternative medicines that have not checked their expertise or science for nothing, nor has anyone certified this to prove that human health is not harmful. First of all, individuals who surrender to their treatment suffer. Second, there's a massive amount of trust in medicine. Third, the mass-healing hygiene, the healthy life, because the people and the Priors rule, surrender faith to some false healers who are and who will cure them by God. Here, we are witnessing how Croatian health is affected, attacked by mass and individuality, and in various ways the doors are opened to unprofessional treatment procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52987	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52988	Well, I couldn't agree more with Dr. Turic. I will only add in my replica that it is more than obvious that some shows on public Croatian television harm the health of Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52989	Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52990	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of Croatian television, colleagues and colleagues! Before I could begin, I had no way of replicating my colleagues to Lonchar, but I don't understand how a doctrine about a world called anarcholiberalism is questionable with ignorance. As far as I know, I know a lot of anarcholiberals that are very competent people. Yeah, but why not, why don't the neoconservatives or I don't know the Social Democrats but rather anarcholiberals. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But good. I didn't recognize myself, but after all, we liberals are the heritage of something called anarcholiberalism. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But let's get back to this very important topic. There are a lot of people here who have also been in previous Parliament meetings. My colleague, if I'm not mistaken yesterday's fellow Galic said that already the fifth, sixth time he defends here the Croatian Radio-Television report and so that I believe him can be a reliable witness to my discussions where I have truly every time without the rest almost masochistly defended the journalist, right to freedom, right to the difference and even the right to error, legally to... The wrong assessment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it's precisely that this fact gives me now the right to try maybe to put this discussion in another level. I know that it is not good in Parliament to conduct theoretical discussions, that they are tiring, that some times they have the impression that they are actually trying to put the problem under the rug and very often our decency is that we do not want to do to others what we do not want others to do is perceived as weak, as indecisive, and not in the sense in which they were told. Although I have come and said every time, quoting Remark: "In the West nothing new", each time this debate has always been in a way an attempt for politics to possess a certain space and to control and to control it, to be comprehensive and to be almost and to in some way that is legitimate behaviour and politicians but I always say in everything so and so should have measure. But the same thing that every time I thought I was predominant that this, that right to the difference, right to the wrong, that really no one has the right to have control over public television should actually pull something else, and that's called the responsibility of journalists doing their job. I'm afraid this freedom is a little too freely understood. That people, or some people, had played a little bit. And then right then, this is exactly what one ambience is created, which is what a colleague of Zuzul in this memo, in this, in this isolated opinion, actually calls post-modern. The postmodern is also a legitimate, legitimate theoretical worldview that says that, that everything is, that everything is allowed, when everything is allowed, then really within that context we can defend any show, any attitude, and actually anything can, everything can be justified. And, but I'm afraid that actually people who do that, who act that way, who really want to be so irresponsible post-modernists actually forget about these extreme conjectures of such an attitude. If all is available then indeed what is offered to us as an alternative or as it seems to me as ten years ago was the one in action of the famous anti-entrepreneurship spirit, so every entrepreneur was an apriori speculative and all the fact that this is now happening here at the beginning of this third millennium is actually now creating the same bit of frustration because we are involved, we are on the same, we are on the same, we are on this ship, we can't act like it's none of us, an anti-political spirit. And that's not good. Because you know if someone says it on public television and everyone who comes has the right to say that Parliament needs to be abolished then the audience claps for it and then the audience votes for it, but now it wonders, but when it happens and if it has no comment, if there is no attitude, what does it mean to abolish Parliament? Then actually, it's opening the way to dictatorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52991	Who wants to abolish Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52992	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And that's what we need to talk about. No one can control the public mind and control it. And he must really move within those frameworks that belong to a civil democracy. He can't have politics possessing him. I can't, what I've often quoted... "Who rules the signs of government and men." It is, it is, and it is, and television is a couple of excellent signs, and, therefore, it is not, therefore I say and no wonder, it is a wonder that in fact these 15 years of this Croatian transition, Croatian politics also has these fighting precisely for, for control and over Croatian television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what's bothering me as a liberal now. What this world or the world that offers television is a world of extremes. Only they represent the news. It's like Gus's curve, 5% s, 5% on this side, 5% on the other side, and she, that quiet big majority actually stays out, out of that life. And that's inadmissible. Because if you really want to become the news then you have to by definition belong to these extremes. You know, yesterday I seemed to have been told that between one Kangrga and one Ivankovic there are really the same, same very interesting worlds that are not there. That methodological approach, that concept that we actually stand up to each other every time. That every time you have a project opposite to show the "tobajage" let it be heard and the other side it's a wrong approach. Exactly in that, in such an approach where there is a binary logic, where there is a principle of exclusion, where the rule of law or-or something that has just led us to this situation, this anti-political attitude, and that is exactly, in fact, that you yourself must be afraid of this job that you are doing and that people are also doing more or less honorably. And that's what they need to be trusted with. But if you create one, one opinion then really within that change is difficult, hard to manage. Yes, let a thousand flowers bloom as it seems to me yesterday his Excellency Mr. Mastruco represented, but I'm afraid it's not plurality. That it is not about a thousand flowers, but that it is about a manean principle that has become dominant on Croatian television. And that principle needs to be changed. That manchaism that really, really reduces our daily life. Which reduces, reduces news and reduces actually political options. And then normally... Now you could make a little joke like this and then Stalin said, "others of what's really left is actually right and opposite." If it were actually shown that it was a coin of two, only with two, with two persons who, and then in some way you have all the time, you have one that I would say a little pseudo conflict which then, because ideologically it was sometimes immersed it sometimes escalated so that the right-hand side of me, those who are themselves, took the right to be masters of Croatian silence reacting and so because it, in no way, will be sanctioned, and colleagues to me on the left-hand side also, because of this post-modern spirit that prevails on television with a certain kind of enhanced ideological passions also trying to create reality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't really know what our reality is? That when it's said that something before was better, I'm actually saying we live constantly in this one virtual reality and that virtual reality is exactly, that is, we give it content depending on our political option. It's something that's still inadmissible. That's why you shouldn't have that autonomy institution is something that, for which I've been fighting here, has been anywhere else for 15 years and more. But that, but the autonomy of the institution must not be understood as the right of that institution to actually be silent and to actually shut up those things that it still has to react to because we, like us, are not sacred cows and we are not, and we can't be but also someone else isn't sacred cows. And in that, if that balance is achieved, if that balance is achieved, that actually doesn't happen exactly as it did yesterday, it's kind of hazy that whoever attacks it, who defends it, it's not, it's not, it's not an ambience in which it can be constructively spoken, where things can change and I think things need to change, but not in exactly one radical revolutionary way, but just as evolutionaryly as things happen in other segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52993	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52994	Well, dear colleague Kramaric, in his brilliant theoretical presentation, seems to have become a little entangled, so he attributed the authorship of his excellency to Professor Mastruk the authorship of the famous dictionary that "Let a flower of thousands of flowers". May a thousand flowers appear to be said by Comrade Mao Ce Tung [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52995	No, he didn't. You should listen carefully to your colleague Piploic. A guff like that couldn't have made someone from yola, but a certain education to be attributed to Mastruku by Mao Ce Tung. Shime of the Smack, yes, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52996	counterpart Kramaric said public television should be out of political control or control of political influence. Maybe it's true but it's not true in life because the main...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52997	That's not true because it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a cartoonization, so please choose to receive a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52998	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u52999	Ivo Lonchar, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53000	Well, counterpart Kramaric said colleagues on my right who are not presently forced to be masters of Croatian silence. I don't think that's true. These colleagues on our right and what heritage party they had when they returned in '45. years in the forest then they put all of Croatia in jail and there was silence. And they then set up a matrix by which one noisy minority manages...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53001	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53002	Well, this isn't exactly what he said. So, the noisy minority...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53003	That's the first part. Part two, no. Thank you very much. You have a replica, Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53004	... I agree. [[Specially enabled.]] When I said a group of anarcholiberals, then I put it like this and I said it under the supposed signs. Well, I'm sorry if you guys recognized each other, and I'm sorry if you didn't realize what I was going to say, but, well, that's people. It's really beneath me to talk about these people, but unfortunately, they've forced us to talk about them for two days. You see, in his own time, the Croatian TV daily about MPs has paid 16 thousand kunas and is looking for free transportation, etc., etc. Here I heard earlier, so this is the same part of the replica, that our colleague, what's called, Nikola Vuljanić, is that there is such a thing I don't know, held a press conference that HDZ bought us independent representatives with 250 thousand kuna and that our salary is just a allowance. Here, you were alive and seen tomorrow in all the daily news and tonight on the journal of Croatian Television where the news will be, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has brought the right for every representative to have the right to receive this fee, and the State's audit after we've all been spat out, after we've all spit out except one representative that we've all spent that money rationally, because these money goes to a special account and we don't spend it just as much as we know it. Just like someone from Croatian TV, right, fellow Galic, goes on the road then he has the right to attach a hotel account, has the right to the living room, if he goes with his car for miles, etc., to the toll...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53005	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53006	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53007	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53008	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53009	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53010	I agree with you, and I also personally support the right to freedom of expression and freedom of journalistic expression and the right to differ in opinion, which is obviously not supported by all the representatives of this Croatian Parliament, so some have left. And I think freedom of the press means that journalists are allowed to write and talk about everything, that there are no taboos, that there are no topics that can't be talked about. But I would not take as a journalistic freedom that the editor of the main news show television has the right, as his freedom, to me as a Croatian citizen or a citizen and others who pay the fee to decide what happened that day in Croatia or what did not happen. So he must or they must and are obliged to inform objectively, by objective criteria, what happened in Croatia, and then we can all think differently about it together. Likewise, Article 7 speaks, and this cannot be the freedom of editors, it must separate information from comments and clearly mark comments as a personal opinion of the author. And I don't know who remembers, but from childhood I remember...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53011	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53012	And here you know, that's where the definition problems begin, what's objective and what's important. It really is, then, you have arbitrary, you think it's something very important, someone else thinks something else is very important. This should, however, be left to the editors, because it would really be bad if each of us were the main and responsible editor of Croatian television. Then we'd have 152 journals and that certainly wouldn't be good. There are beautiful patterns, lots, here are many people living abroad and seeing how, in fact, the news is working on BBC, how it's done in Germany, how it's done in some others, and that the news is actually much shorter without these unnecessary comments. I also, last night, I have to agree that sometimes this, we don't very often distinguish who's a news reader, who's just a news reader, and then who's allowed to be a news reader, I don't know how to comment on something in a less or more funny or clumsy or skillful way. That's right, but get on with it, so we don't repeat movie journals from the '50s in the '60s.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53013	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53014	I'm especially glad he came to life... concept and concept of public mind, colleague Kramarić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Speaking of abolishing parliamentaryism then as he spoke metaphorically, and you're a little ironically referring to it wondering who abolished Parliament. Unfortunately, if a referendum were to be held at this time, most Croatian citizens would be in favour of abolishing Parliament. He referred to his participation in a show on Croatian television where an explicitly one participant asked for Parliament's abolition and won an absolute victory. As for the abolition of parliamentaryism in us, you have in today's morning list, the OSCE representative, probably a young woman, an Italian woman, says the Parliament is jeopardising public television. This is where the parliamentary minority retreated. So parliamentary, life and Parliament are at one substance level at risk in Croatia, not in the sense that as Ante Pavelic in the course of II. The World War to be abolished literally by Parliament. That's not the case, but he's quite right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53015	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53016	Your Honor, Mr. President. Just on the trail and what Mr. Slaven Letica was saying, exactly what Mr. Kramarić said is not everything can be seen black and white both from the aspect and this report left, right, liberal. That's why we're here. We're not in the middle by chance, so we can be exactly that corrective and direct the debate in terms of this. Because watch out, when it comes to independence that rests on the basis of objectivity, expertise, then there can be no big difference it looked at the work of Croatian television liberally, on the left or on the right. So that's one objectivity, that's professionalism, that's expertise, and then there'll be little fluctuations. However, then we will achieve what we all want, and that Croatian television is public television, to be objective, to be independent and to be professional and professional. Now that's what we have to pursue to the end, and then we're going to achieve our goal, and it's going to be a lot easier for all the other reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53017	Ivanka Brnadić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53018	Thank you very much. Here, counterpart Kramaric spoke in his debate that something should change on Croatian television. I agree with that, and that is why I have made one personal survey among viewers from 7 to 77 years of age and different education. And I came up with a very, very interesting opinion on the Croatian TV programme, so they told me that, that cartoons are too early in the morning while children are still asleep, that there is too much violence, blood, crime in various bad shows, that there are too little educational programs for young people, that there are too little fun music, entertainment programs, and especially too little serious music, and if there is too little time for nights after 12 hours, and sometimes after 1 hour in the night, there are too many soaps, unnecessary reruns of these soaps in whose terms should be educational shows, that there are too little documentary programs and that the terms are very unsuitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53019	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić, Zlatko Kramarić, I told Ivana. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53020	Thank you, Mr. President. According to one major poll, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have shown that they trust the church most, and then Croatia's television, and for these very reasons, there is responsibility for the people who run the TV, and that is why this fact should be adapted, and the changes would begin by returning a colleague of Loncar to Croatian television, it seems that he has passed the weakest with the suits on this TV, they are quite unquality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53021	The esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd rephrase what he said if no one had the right to interfere with Croatian television. No one has the right to even pre-control business, approve of business contracts and financial responsibilities. But 870 million kunas give Croatian citizens a subscription to Croatian television. In the business world, it is unique that the national television budget of €1 billion and €390 million is decided not by the owner but by autonomous management. It's really an unprecedented case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53023	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53024	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lady and gentlemen of Croatian television. I ask myself a question, in fact, whether it is immaterial, and how constructive it is to analyse and talk about the representation of a particular type of programme, to look on Croatian television at the likeness of this and that, so we searched for it all last year and now we are where we are. That is why I will try to make my contribution to this debate through the presentation of my vision of the structure, process and outcome on Croatian television. You'll say a little out of the ordinary, but I'll try to make myself clear. If the outcome, this means the product on Croatian television is not good, and the ordinary rating here in this assembly is that it is not, then one of the previous two, or structure or process should be changed. Something about structure. The Croatian Radio Television structure also includes the Law on Croatian Radio and Software Councils and Directorates and Buildings and Employees and all that depends on the outcome. That's what we watch on Croatian television and I don't want to talk about it anymore. Process. What is the process of Croatian broadcasting? It's all what people out there, what they know, what they do, what they do and how they relate to each other. I don't get involved in software editing policy, but I'm going to show what problems those who have a job face, and I'm going to use the programme council records that are available to everyone on the Internet. At the meeting of the Programme Council of 18 October 2005, Mrs Jasic, this is very important, otherwise the SDP's favorite pointed to the danger of freedom of the media from the debate that in public on the Committee on Information, Information and Media has caused one representative here among us, I will not mention his name. She says, since he's a parliamentary representative, and that his words have weight, that's why GONG, with GONG, came across a conviction. You can imagine, because it's a record and because his words have weight. The reason for such an attitude is said Mrs. Jasic, the Law on HRT, which requires Croatian broadcasters to satisfy the public interest in their programmes. Imagine, therefore, the people's representative should be silenced and the public's interest satisfied. So who does the lucky representative represent? She also says that the claim made by some MPs that the editor-in-chief of Croatian broadcasting caused damage by his work, imagine an attack on Croatia's broadcasting. You can see it all in the record, everyone. Because she says, without arguments, the future assembly of the Croatian Radio Television Council raises the issue of its resolution. Well, it's like you're not laughing. Well, I don't think the present director has anything against that possibility. He then says that such behaviours are contrary to the provisions of the Croatian Law on HRT because the Council of Croatian Radio Television should be independent in its work and if anyone suspects the legality of its work, you should know that the supervision of the legality of the work of the Council performs imagine, the Croatian Parliament. Well, I mean, what contradictions are these? God knows. And then he adds, says HRT is obliged to respect the Law on HRT and the programme principles and obligations prescribed by this law, and now listen, not to any please, fictitious state and national interests. The following is presented in the minutes, as she asked the Council of Croatian Radio Television to condemn the rhetoric of the said representative. He says so because of similar future rhetoric. I wonder whose school is media democracy. I have not seen the greater Stalinism of the spirit. Did he not kill in the name of freedom? And Bljajic, Mr. Bljajic, supported this wisdom by Mrs. Jasic, and pointed out,... particularly dissatisfaction with the statement of the mentioned representative, even went further and suggested that it was not a good practice for programme leadership to attend meetings of parliamentary committees and to answer the question of MPs. Do you know why? He says because such a way of working contributes to the wishes of MPs to influence, or edit the HTV programme and says further in the minutes, and Mr Ljuština supported Mrs Jasic's position. Now imagine the company. This is my commendation to the present council member who did not support that position, Mr. Leviaq. It's said we have problems with domestic production. So wouldn't performing this meeting under the record scenario be a real challenge? Place a shop in the space of Croatian TV and the time of Inquisition. In the presence of Mrs Jasic and her adversaries, whip and fire people's advocates who dared to say that she was still turning, and then in the second act of the 21st century on behalf of media rights and freedom to try to beat the unfortunates and there from somewhere to show up SDPs, our colleagues who left this assembly, exclusive advocates, change for the better and prevent it from explaining that this is an attack on democracy. It's a message. The MP has to keep his mouth shut, I guess because everyone else doesn't have a chance to talk anyway, because the shows choose people, time and manipulate the fact that no matter what anyone says about it, we're the only ones here in this media area who are so-so but we're talking. And now I'm coming to the end space. So I'm talking about the product of such a process and such structure, of such television. I believe we're all stuck here when it comes to the outcome. So I believe that you are, in a certain way, the hostages of that process and that structure. As much as it's mentioned here, this unfortunate Latina, and I have to mention it because it's an extraordinary example. It's rare with Sunday at 2 and many others. However, I am convinced that Latin is actually doing scientific research, i.e. The experiment may also be doctored by a man on the subject of absorption power, i.e. A border within which a nation can endure humiliation. The scientific indicators he is following to bring about new scientific knowledge from this part of science, for example. may be as many people as could have been asleep that night after the show or, say, the number of hospital admissions recorded due to a worsening of the depression. Perhaps Mrs Jasic, Latin, Vrapec, under the protection of media freedom defenders, are also doing joint research, such as media freedoms as an instrument of guilt. They intend to publish their research in a scientific journal called "Criminal Undertaking" or something like that or none of the above. But whatever it is, my people, where are we, and will we take it any further? There's the impression that both the Programme Council and all of us here are television, and the information program is ignoring, actually. So, in particular, this happens in the space of the best-wanted product of the information program, the diary, which is as if very often arranged in the black chronicle. The honor of Mr. Milic, who, seeing the paradox, is probably because he has the experience of "Jutela" at all costs trying to make Croatian television both public and national. Congratulations. I'm taking out a time program and a sports section that's as good as ever. But as things stand now, one day the weather forecast could start about like this, and that'll end because I can see that my light is already on. Polls conducted by the Agency called "The worse the better" suggest that 80% of respondents have shown their dissatisfaction with the coming Genoa cyclones, and therefore even 75% of them hold the government accountable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53025	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53026	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So listening to an esteemed colleague, namely Mrs. Jasic, it was all known to him at the time of the appointment of the Programme Council. True, that's what the gentleman said, our esteemed colleague, Slaven Letica. And he voted against Mrs. Jasic, Andrija was abstention, and you voted for her as well, if we talk about it. That's what happened. All right, everybody else, come on, he wasn't here. Now, if we're going to talk about one of the best reviews of the work of Croatian Radio Television, I'm not mixing this "Latinica" we could hear the representatives who were present at the Children's Meeting of Knowledge. It is the best rating of Croatian broadcasting. Unfortunately, there were few of us, Professor Letica, me and my colleague, Selem. And we all got the CD. I don't know if you've won Croatian television if you haven't, see. It's the best, it's not political, it's not from the left, it's not from the right, it's the court of 20 children's mayors who said nice things and about patriotism and who is their role model and about Croatian broadcasting. How and how Croatian Radio Television should have for them both documentary programs and geographically various emissions. When you show movies that you could watch, when you draw and everything else. I think you'd better take a look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53027	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53028	Very briefly, Mr. President. I am surprised that my colleague Kovacevic is not familiar with the fact that we had no choice but to break through the list of whom we will, whom we will not from the people offered to the Programme Council because that list was adopted in the package. Therefore, if we didn't agree with that list as it was, and the proposal went to SDP then we would be again accused of, I don't know, obstructing the work of Croatian broadcasters. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53029	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53030	Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to replicate a sentence that I really liked from my colleague Bagaric's presentation. He said, "I don't get involved in software politics, and I don't want to." That's good. No MP, no politician should interfere with editorial policy or impose on journalists what they should do, which they should not. I've seen a lot of you racketeering in the last six years. It never occurred to me or I'll ever do it. But those who defend the so-called press freedoms, I will now present one case. It's this right-hand side right here that's not there right now. A very respected friend of mine back in the '90s because there's a lot of them out there that were born back in the '90s. I was lucky born 90 years ago. This friend of mine used to say who these judges are that they should not be spoken of and their judgments, referring to the verdict of Predrag Matvejevic. And yesterday and this morning, there was foaming about who these parliamentary representatives were so that they could talk about Croatian broadcasters. I said yesterday and today, journalists have the right to speak about us, journalists have the right to express everything there is, but what is based on the truth. But we do have the right, and we Parliamentarians talk about journalists and journalism. Because I believe deeply in journalists and journalism...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53031	Third replica, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53032	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to refer to one of the positions that my colleague Bagaric expressed where he mentioned Mrs Jasic's work on the programme council's work, who is a representative of Gong and where he said she represented the public interest. Well, right now, I'd like to say a little bit about that public. Turns out they're the only ones invited to represent the public. So, representatives of various associations. I would remind you that public television still has to respect the majority's attitude. I already said that today, and I also didn't notice that our television news has been released that the Russian Parliament has disbanded all NGOs and is seeking re-registration individually and a source of funding. That would be so interesting for all the viewers of our television, to talk a little critically about associations that are presented to represent the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53033	We don't need the Russian House to be a visual copy. Correction, i.e. the reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53034	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear fellow Gong, you can only disband me dead. So we know that the dead can vote if it wasn't for Mrs. Jasic's research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53035	The edge of Clem, the fourth replica. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53036	Dear counterpart Bagaric, the public interest is great especially when it comes to public television. A number of journalists who are inside Croatian television signed the initiative for public television. That something is wrong, colleague Bagaric, within the system itself, is just saying the initiative for public Croatian television. Among other things, aware of this knowledge and all that Dr Hebrang said, we were on the Committee on Information, Information and Media against the adoption of this Report. And we stand behind that attitude today, and indeed something is wrong, it shows clearly and loudly this initiative. Who doesn't have it, who wants it, can get a photocopy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53037	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53038	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate my colleagues to a statement by Mrs. Jasic who says that interference in television is contrary to every law. However, they cannot, not notice and not interfere with that law, so as to quote Article 22 of that law, which provides that the Director-General may conclude all legal transactions to the value of any legal transaction of 10 million kuna, and above that amount, with the prior consent of the Directorate of Croatian Television. This Law gave you absolute power to the director and directorship without the control of the public, without the control of those citizens who give 870 million kuna in the subscription to Croatian television, and imagine how many directors of the Clinical Hospital, the healthcare institution has the right to dispose of 20 thousand kuna. No comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53039	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53040	I must admit that when I heard of this possibility, but earlier today I heard of it, I remained really surprised because I compared powers to an appropriate director of a large hospital and it seems really amazing to me regardless of the benefits that this Law gives to this or to that, but I agree with Mr. Loncar that he really is noose around the door and people on television and television and this public, and as long as such law we will have everything bad in the law. Among other things, the Law does not foresee that the Programme Council can view a show which, for example, is an extremely anti-Croatian focus and say that such a show on public television cannot be shown. Thus, this is the reason why it is necessary to consider the possibility of a measure of such a law. The laws are to change and to be better and to improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53041	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't put me in a situation where I have to ring every minute to get the wrong impression that I'm a member of some bell towering party. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53042	From the replica, HSP television received a video of Carla Del Ponte falling into Sarajevo, but on the stairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53043	Is that a replica, Mr. Kramaric? In order to abuse the replica, Mr Kramaric, I have a grave regret to share with you a reminder or a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And now we've finished an individual debate. We're going to the club debate for five minutes. HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53044	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, this long-term exhausting debate has finally resulted in a general psychological relaxation that ends with a joke even though we're talking about quite serious things, so I would ask you for at least as much if it's possible to concentrate as 5 minutes of debate. Mr. Chief Director, ma'am editor-in-chief, Mr. Editor-in-chief of the Information Program, I'm going to say a few actually honest words about what I was saying on behalf of the club yesterday. First of all, I honestly admit that on behalf of the club, I have raised a number of questionable questions that concern first and foremost the reception of HTV employees, concerning their salaries, which relate to the salaries and receipts of external associates, which concerns the salaries of some journalists who appear four times an hour on HTV each month and receive 25 to 40 thousand kuna for that. Yes, I admit the questions were diabolical, of course I didn't get answers, but I asked these diabolical questions just so that you might feel a little bit too at some point, and those journalists that are concerned, including those producers, and those editors who were concerned with these issues, to make you feel a little bit like when someone has been malignancies and tendingly engaged in the value of your work at least one, in one debate, and not as Croatian television has done with us council representatives for days, months, even years. In a civilised world, public television is not engaged in such a malignant evaluation of parliamentary deputies' affairs. Yeah, now a few words about these two reports. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, editors and directors of Croatian television, we have shown dissatisfaction with the Croatian TV programme in these two days. Dissatisfaction because we too often consider this programme unilateral, especially the informative, even scandalous or anti-Croatian as it is "Latinica". We will accept the Report of the Programme Council because it has shown exactly the same similar dissatisfaction, as well as isolated opinions, as well as the overall adoption of this opinion. Secondly, as a club, we are dissatisfied with the way the funds are spent as shown in the HRT Financial Report, because we consider that only one example of 4 million kuna to be a law firm for setting up warnings and executive processes that every lawyer in HTV can do, and there is enough indeed something that shows that the way these funds are spent is not about Croatia but about a much, much richer country. And thirdly, we are dissatisfied with the fact that you've been quite silent here, and I would even say no to Forum 20, not Forum 21, not Forum 22, but in fact a group of journalists who have allowed themselves to be called public television initiative, journalists who work on HTV, from which it is quite clear that they themselves do not view television as public, but private, are seen as being chicanted because of their world-class or their implementation, which is inadmissible in a democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53045	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53046	Col. Rozic said, here's a quote: "We have expressed these two days of dissatisfaction with the HTV program." That is true, but in the context of this debate it is incorrect because we have expressed dissatisfaction with the business of Croatia-radiotelevision, so to explain this, this inaccuracy. So there's no reason why I don't believe what HRT served us, but I'd like the financial police to go in there, the criminal police, the state's audit, the domestic independent audit, the foreign audit, and then see if all things match. I don't doubt anyone, but the institutions are checking institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53047	Damir Cain, on behalf of the IDS Club, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53048	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. Yes, everything seems to be going in the direction of cleanup on Croatia-radiotelevision, and that is then taking over Croatian-radiotelevision, and then it is a disaster or better said control of Croatian-radiotelevision than one political option, meaning conclusion. Absolutely no doubt, HDZ has done much for Croatia both good and bad, 1990. independence, war, etc. 2005 in the case of Gotovina and what the 3rd January administration could not and it is good for Croatia, because of Europe and for our future but around Croatian Radio Television HDZ does not change, remains the same as until 2000 during Tudjman. This way, gentlemen, that's what I'm saying, he can't go to Europe. This is not how Croatia reformes itself. I agree that after.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53049	Take it easy. One moment. Mr. Cain, you cannot insult the Croatian Democratic Community, you cannot insult any party. I give you a warning. I warn you, in a repeated case, I will take your word for it. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53050	After the hit on the part of Croatia's radio-television, I'm afraid this public will see it as a hickey on Croatian radio-television. So the conclusion will be what I'm saying the Empire has now come into a position to fight back. It is good to know, on the other hand, that the position of many on Croatian television is better than the position of Minister, Representatives etc. and it is good to talk about Croatian radio and television to talk about the Parliament tomorrow and vice versa. However, when it comes to this report, it is true that opportunities are stabilised financially, businessly and that it is no longer party television as it was by the end of the 99th year. That today, I'm talking about television, a respectable institution is respected, so it's respectable, and I agree there's no stronger media in this class. And also, at least at the IDS Club, we want that television to preserve its independence and if someone is interested in their independence, then it should be primarily small parties. I agree everywhere is more or less so in Croatia that directors are in position and that it is also a political function. And I also know that the government is sensitive when one of the authorities leaving leaves them with a set of furniture from their time, but for the sake of this country's democratic image, I think it's a good thing. I also believe that Croatian radio television at this time does not need a tutor. Croatian radio-television, I agree, is widely divided. Apparently, there's a petition there today against the 200 privileged. But in 2007, someone will start the shift again, someone will regret it again, others will applaud on television and in Parliament. Inauguration in some way will not say terror or violence but certainly something that is not good for Croatia. What is happening can only be good for those who, through Croatian Radio-Television, want to prepare a course for the next elections. And I am so much of an opinion, gentlemen of television, that the Parliament should be monitored in an integral manner at that time from 9.30 to 13.30 when there is no ratings and that all the important topics should be monitored, that the Parliament should not be deprived of transmission. In one word, between this home and the Croatian public, there is no need at the interval as the mediators say. So, we're against shifts on Croatian TV even though we're kind of glad to talk about TV and from another angle. And I also want to convince everyone from television that at least the representatives in this home are not the last garbage in this country because many are in a better position than the parliamentary representatives, even those for whom they are or for whom they are not, and even for those who give us these moral lessons but I want to say that if we discipline Croatian radio-television then we will trample the basic values of the Constitution, freedom of words, independence, impartiality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53051	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The president of the club, or vice president of the HDZ Club, informed me that the representatives of the HDZ Club are giving up a series of corrections that they had on this exhibit. That's what he'll look back on behalf of the Andri Hebrang club. Mr. Lonchar, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53052	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53053	Yeah, you're not connected to the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53054	Mr. Cain said like this, "You can't go to Europe like this.". Mr. Cain, that is completely incorrect, but it is true that with the law that you have passed, which you have defended with all your powers, you cannot go to Europe because civilised, cultural and democratic Europe does not remember such a laurd and nakarada from the law. Mr. Cain, I know how you spoke yesterday. I know you're operating on the system as it turns you on. Apparently, there's another program in you today than yesterday's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53055	Thank you. Club HSLS, DC, LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić, five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53056	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! They say that it is not right to be a prophet and that the most difficult prophet is to be in his own midst, but here I will try to be a prophet and optimistic that after this debate nothing will be the same. And maybe to say the people are smart, sometimes the people should quote but not only quote but also act according to their Maxes. They say, "Not everyone is evil for evil.", as well as a whole series of these debates that may not have been at one level of civil democratic decency many times have led to that great sobering. And I think that's good, and that's just how my colleague Zuzul is a member of the programming council in his memo just accused everyone of being post-modern that he's still going to learn something from it. What I must in some way also commend Croatian television that almost few public television in the world so in one way dare to open many places, traumatic places our closer and further past. It is almost sometimes bordered by masochism, but we are probably one of the exceptional peoples in Europe and the world. Here, yesterday I also had the opportunity to watch, the show is called "The Other Format", and it was discussed whether that "The Jeze House" Branka Copic should be part of the mandatory booklet or not. The same went according to the old good principle of exclusion, which is that they are actually called guests who were supposed to be in two opposite sexes, so on the one hand we had linguist Škiljan, Professor Matejic and Mrs Brozovic, who did not end up acting as the other side, but was trying to be very correct. And then it actually happens that one of the guests is referencing and no one is censoring him, he's actually talking about this situation that occurred in Croatia, accusing this Croatian culture of xenophobicity, exclusion and narrowness, and he's actually speaking on that same Croatian television, and it's considered to be the most normal. And I wonder again about the editor and what about all of us who, say, think that, who don't correspond with the spirit of the "Herry House" and who think that "Harry Potter" or some other texts in a much better way mark that spirit that I don't know, with which youth, youth or children in Croatia are currently Corresponding. But this is our situation, and this is exactly the situation or/or this exclusion that leads to what I've been talking about, and that's that sometimes it's this feeling of fear in me, which is that Parliamentism is in danger, not because there really are some political forces that will end it. No one's wise and wise can think of it that way. But sometimes it seems to me that we're missing out in the right way to read the ruling signs of the street. And when I say streets I don't mean anything... but actually the public who actually thinks that politicians in this society are guilty of everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean it would be very simple, then would be, those problems are being solved in the way of elections. The elections are actually one place where certain political changes can take place, some new relations in Parliament, in society, but from that fact, we must not take on anything more than to, I don't know, belong to the position or opposition in Parliament, and even less, I don't know that in one, in an inappropriate way, we would create relationships between those who belong to other segments of society like public television. That's why I'm saying this debate is still going to lead to sobering. She'll, she'll, she'll show and she'll show that, to very hard suspend that ghost totalitarian. I am always and always speak and he is not, not immune to him neither to the left nor to the right, nor to the liberals. Everyone would actually like his painting and character and work to be kudikamo or a better, better way presented, but let's be aware that, that this is not good and that really this principle of objectivity, the principle of professionalism and the principle of maintaining dignity is something that should be our policy and our attitude...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53057	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53058	But also attitude and attitude
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53059	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53060	Journalists and Croatian public television... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53061	counterpart Kramaric said parliamentaryism is in crisis. A colleague of Kramaric's is not true. You know that as well as I do. Although there was the possibility that it might be, but the one who spoke from this House that the circus is no longer in effect and is not even the head of the parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53062	And the HDZ Representatives' Club. Five-minute debate, distinguished representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53063	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Two days we've been discussing these two Croatian Radio-Television reports and we can wonder if it's much or little? It's a lot to some, it's a little small for us because we haven't heard a single answer to our questions. We still don't know what the salaries of individual officials are? What are the fees and different receipts of authors of individual shows? We still don't know why the financial report is as disastrous as it is? We do not know why Croatian television did not comply with the legal obligations to pay neither taxes nor contributions nor money to be paid under the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Croatian Television. But we do know something. We managed to decrypt the methods by which Croatian television influences two basic directions of directing one society. How does it form public opinion and public education? Very clever and very thoughtful. The methods used in this exercise have been known for decades in these areas. Now something is wrapped in media independence, NGOs and similar envelopes. What are these methods? The first method is to present the news forgeries. How do you fake the news? So, for example, on a month-long report on our television, public television from this HDZ Assembly with coalition partners versus the opposition is 1:5. It is only enough to fake a picture of events in the Croatian Parliament as in the Supreme Legislative Authority. It is also counterfeited by speaking negatively in the economy without being positive about examples. It is also forged so that there is no place for young Croatian scientists to achieve world successes, so we look at these results on world television, but of course in leading shows such as news on Croatian radio TV, Croatian young scientists are taboo topics. I personally became convinced of the government and its work when I was its member and vice president one thing and one story, what happened in the government, another story of what we see on the HTV diary. It's two different governments. The second method is to shut up. Shut up the Millennium Conference in New York where the President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Shakespeare, another man in the state hierarchy, gives a speech. We saw him on some foreign television, but we didn't see him on home television. The third is underestimation. You underestimate Independence Day because it's only the fourth news in the journal. The next method is destroyed. Destroy with your report the Croatian economy. Mr. Sprytz, who gives false information in the journal about "Sun-Hvar" and now that the brilliant transformation and privatisation has produced excellent results "Hvar" is, "Sun-Hvar" is taboo topic. It also applies to PIC Belje. And finally the fifth method is toss it, toss everything that's good into what's wrong. What's the message? You live in the land you created for yourselves, and it's no good for you. It is fortunate that the difference between the truths we see and the truths of life is such that the average person and viewer can still assess it. Namely, the central show in which this is all happening and these examples that I have justified here and even wider in my personal debate for which I have had more time, the central show is our Dnevnik. What do we expect from the Dnevnik? To give daily news through the prism of God’s day - to - day light that tells the truth. Unfortunately, these news is often a dark fake, most often dark untruth, dark endings of reality, so here I am taking the opportunity to suggest that our central diary be renamed "dark". Because it would be much more fitting to what we hear and see in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53064	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53065	About everything else in the conclusions we handed over to the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53066	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tonci Tadic. [[Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53067	Dear fellow Hebrang, in his gleam of speech as one of the people who cooked the so-called "Hebrang". a public-private partnership that has nothing to do with a public-private partnership in terms of how... The European Union mentioned that it produced sensational results in Sunny Hvar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what my colleague Hebrang's gonna see. So I would ask you to refrain from sensational results, saying that I am correcting the assumption that this is not a sensational success because we are just going to see if it was a success at all, especially if it was sensational?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53068	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovačević, the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53069	I am also correcting the esteemed Mr. President's incorrect quote of the esteemed colleague Hebrang who said that the privatisation of Sunny Hvar has yielded brilliant results. What brilliant results when there are no rules on public-private partnership as we have pointed out and the government is preparing a regulation. Let's not go too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53070	Final review of Mr. Zdenko Leviak, president of the HRT Programme Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53071	Gentlemen should have sat and listened. It is, I have chosen it myself, and I must admit with pride, I have proudly listened to your criticisms and those well-intentioned and those of the flat-rate but I would say the instructive ones that this Council will to whom, which I will recommend to the Council, as a matter of fact, seem to me the way in which we continue to work on our public television becoming still national. So my mission is legally restricted. I am called here, I will answer without distinction, I personally, so I will continue with the name. The Council has not given any falsified report to this House. It's a difficult qualification. So the Council discussed the report for a month, twice the session was called. That report is, that report was adopted. Five minutes before she came into adoption so... We've received a telegram or fax, which is now an instruction that has been taken out here, and there's no reason not for all members of the Parliament to get it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean it's public, he's an integral part of the record. He's, he's on the mail, on the TV pages. So he wasn't hiding. But the decision made, that, that report, the particularly isolated report, was read on the council, commented and then voted afterwards. I'm saying that the report in front of you is legitimately brought to the council. I must say here that I do not feel the sacrifice of the Law on HRT, nor do I feel the sacrifice of the law, any law in Croatia, because all these laws have been passed by this Parliament and I while I am in this place, I think all of you and all of you Croatian citizens are obliged to uphold the law. So I answered the name and last name where I was personally called. As president of the council, I have to say that it's extremely painful, for me to be this unusually in one place, but I have to confess and instruct you. A lot of good examples, these objections are any sure that, which the council will discuss, and one of the points of the agenda at one of the next sessions I will propose the question of whether to adopt, I think there is no reason not to, there will also be a debate about the Parliament. I think it can be very helpful in a way that Croatian television can be stronger, stronger and more national. I don't think the council members can't talk here are, I've written it quoted phonograms of council members, so let us be 11, that every member of the council can talk, but the council is manifested by its decisions. Therefore, no decision has been made or opinion adopted, but you know 11 people is like you 152 each thinking in your own way. I want the team to protect the dignity of the Council membership, not the name and last name. However, I must say as long as I am in this function to which you have re-elected me, and I thank you so much for choosing a council that unanimously accepted me, so I want to do the job of the President of the Council with honor and honesty. I will not fall under any influence, nor am I such a man either side, as you have often spoken here, left or right. There is a foreign law for me, and for me, there is the interest of the Croatian public that we represent through the law. So, I will continue to protect the integrity of the programme's rights to journalists and editors, but I must confess and by tomorrow when we have a session at 10 o'clock we will also ask for an indication of this debate of our leaders who are here. As you can see, the first time he's asked for a proposal has come from people who are creating a program. One offer, correct, accept part, part of the Programme Council's request and thus create a programme. The democratic right to set up a programme cannot be taken by anyone or the journalist or the editor, but it can be otherwise. It may require one maximum responsibility, and here I must confess I specifically underlined Mr. Kresic's debate. That one... Any professionality and responsibility that spoken words may, for spoken words, be, forgive me, if I call you wrong, forgive Ćosic, yes. [[For the president's bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Please excuse me, but I don't know the names of all the MPs. That's something that if you've read the council's report thoroughly is something we insist on. But to this insistence, we now have, after three months, a summary of what we have approved, that is, where we have agreed on the Programme Council and on this is the opportunity when members of the council will be manifested, to see if what we have agreed is being implemented, what we have approved and in what way. I personally think that Croatian television is not black, it is not what it was like here through the debate, but TV is a television that needs to work primarily. Investments from luxury to convert and turn or insert into human resources and thus create a strong position or assumption of quality television. So if, if you read our conversations and individually, you'll find out where we're looking for funds, even when we're detaching or accepting budgets, we're asking for more funds to be invested in the education of personnel. But we're also looking for responsibility. Journalist responsibility is one level. I'm a much bigger editorial god. And not to say hierarchically. This council was elected by the principal director and how you know the directors and directors of the program and the information program. This council will function in such a way as to continue, but will ask those people who have been chosen to have a thorough, not to be influenced by the debate on this Assembly, but to study them thoroughly and you have seen that in our one conclusion it is said that the Programme Committee is in charge, i.e. leaders to answer the questions raised on television. As much as it does or doesn't, I realized here that there was no answer, it would have to take over on itself. I think and thus will end that our Croatian Radio Television will go a good way, that there is a shift. You can't say a little bit about positive things, that there's a shift from two years ago, that we're expecting a shift in next year, and that one transformation is a long way to go. Could it be faster? I think so, but that speed will have to take over the leadership, the leaders of the programming leaders on television and radio. Thank you for your good intentions. I'm sorry to say it like this, I'm sorry there aren't 152 MPs in front of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53072	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53073	Mr. Left said, I don't feel the sacrifice of this law as well as any other law. Mr. Left, that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53074	The way Mr. Left feels it's his business, and that's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53075	What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53076	You can't correct his feelings. Thank you very much. Yeah, feelings are incorrectible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53077	Well, but that's what I meant to explain now, that inaccuracy. All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53078	No, yeah, but feelings don't fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53079	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53080	Your Honor... We have a final review, chief secretary, head director of HRT Mirko Galić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53081	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After two days of long and hard work, after discussions that were very critical, which sought more weak spots on Croatia's broadcasting than they sought some positive points that could be further launched in our development, it is difficult to be brief and concentrated. But the time I've been given is limited, the ability to concentrate is not unlimited, I'm going to try to answer what I think is important. In the five years I've been in front of MPs, this debate was not only the longest but it was different from the previous one. She's different if she's watching and now the schedule at the assembly where almost half the MPs are gone. She was different because she hired probably two thirds or one good third of the MPs, she was different also because she crystallised the great dissatisfaction of the political majority with the programme and business, i.e. with relations on Croatian broadcasting. That's what I want to answer not to be defensive but to give the truth from my point of view. During this period as well as in 2004, Croatian radiotelevision functioned as a stable system that produced the program accepted by our audience and favourably and positively valorised by the profession. In that year as well as in previous years, as in this year and as in the following years, no matter what happens next with HRT, there have been no small, larger or smaller failures, errors, incidents. It is no wonder that in a media house that produces more than 250 hours of radio programme daily, it has received almost unison's commendation and that part of the system is under the authority of the directorship to the same extent as the Croatian Television programme, so without operational influence, without operational interference with one general responsibility. The house produces more than 55 hours a day of television. It is difficult to achieve perfection that would satisfy all, especially when TV is exposed to the most careful viewing not only of audiences, professional audiences, but also of all those who are considered to be audiences, and are considered professional in assessing the programme. During this period, therefore, the period of stability and development of Croatia's radiotelevision has achieved a complete modernisation of its technological park. Someone can say that digitization is just a good form, a good expression. Digitalisation is the future and Croatian broadcasting has gone the farthest in this triangle of the emetre manufacturer, so distributors of the laptops and recipients or recipients of the image or tone. We are at European level of development. Something like this is leadership for it and for it. In the programme during that period, we have achieved certain shifts that everyone admits regardless of the criticisms that can be said, confessed by observers, confessed to the audience. The fact that the institution of Television and the institutions of Radio is after the Church, before the President of the Republic and before the army is on the list of institutions that are trusted by young people, and among the adult population the President of the Republic and the military is ahead, so that the 4th and 5th place tells us that something happened and that trust is not free, is not undeserved and is not donated. It has been achieved by the credibility of the programme on which we insist. The problems and failures he has, the unprofessionalities he has, the ones he has, and the ones he will unfortunately be, unless we think it's a sinless TV, and the sinless TV is, by definition, bad television. The error, however, must not be a system and must not be a goal, it may happen but must not happen because mistakes are being pursued. During that period, we achieved independence from political and financial authorities. As much as there was doubt as to whether the great advertisers dictated programs and conditioned their place in it, I am responsible to tell you what I am saying, do not decide, do not influence and cannot influence. The program, the information program and the program as a whole is free of all external influences, but what we're looking for, in that sense I support all the exposure that I've been listening to here these two days, is that it has to rise at that level of freedom and independence and level of professionality and responsibility, it does not satisfy. We have many examples that speak of it, some drastic, some that cause great interest and some that go unnoticed with little interest. The word "changes" is often mentioned. TV was changing. HRT was changing. It has changed in an organisation that is now going to an international public tender by the end of this year because we want a new organisation and new IT support. She was changing in the program, I'm sure she went for better. Besides, if you look at it, for example. And that's just one of the criteria, the ratings on Monday night that I have on my desk today, from the first 16 most watched shows of all 16 are HTV. Of the 43 shows, 34 are most watched by HTV. That says something about the attitude of the audience and Croatian television. He's tough. It is based on something, on the quality of the programme, on the credibility of the programme, and it needs to be more worked out and removed from those non-professionalities that threaten both the quality and the level of freedom and the overall awareness of Croatian television. If changes in the direction of greater freedom, greater responsibility, greater independence, greater and better professionalism and firmer responsibility can be taken into account in this respect by the institutions of the Croatian Radio Television, which will draw certain conclusions, decisions and some concerning the issues raised here, both the Presidency and the President of the Croatian Parliament. If business rationalisation, better impact and better use of money are wanted, not only our subscribers' money but also the money that is being made on the market from advertising and therefore the pressure of both the Parliament and the public is welcome. We have something to do with it. If you want to change the way people or management changes are said, and that is possible, there is a procedure and everything can be done under this procedure. But I want to say this in the end. Since a question is asked whether or not to accept a report on the programme, i.e. on the work of the Programme Council, to accept or not to accept the Business Report. In 2000, Croatia's broadcasting lost 265 million. Since then, 198 million has been covered. During this period, the Croatian Radio Television invested or determined 228 million. Therefore, a total of 426 million were left for the consolidation of financial operations. In that period, it was invested in development, in investments of around 580 million. One with the other billion in development, in consolidation, in the stability of the house so that she may have what she has. If that's the base, the base, the result for the negative court, and that's possible, that's what you decide. We've been trying to give you information for as good and proper a decision as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53082	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53083	Mr. President, I am truly very sorry that I want to and must correct Mr. Galic's incorrect quote that he has insisted, quote: "We are at European level of quality". After two days of debate, I believe well-intentioned, constructive, from which something could be learned, profited so that changes in Croatian broadcasting can be conducted in the interest of Croatian broadcasting, in the interest of the Croatian public, in the interest of Croatian society. If you really failed to use these two days to make some important, valuable messages about that Croatian television can and must be more professional, more competent and responsible, that it must have a more correct attitude towards fundamental social values such as the Homeland War, Croatian knowledge, etc. Then I must say I'm sorry and doubt that all of this made sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53084	Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53085	I hope my friend Mirko doesn't take this personally, but let me tell you what it is. Mr. Director said, "I responsibly claim that the great advertisers do not determine the program or condition of anything," the quote concluded. That's completely incorrect. Yesterday, my dear Mirko says so. I quote, "I don't have any operational authority over the program," finished the quote. One turns off the other. Here you claim that's not true, here you don't have any authority. But it's okay. Thank you as director of Croatian television for ignoring the most legislative body of the Croatian state by not answering the questions we have asked you. What are the salaries of people, journalists with special contracts, diary directors and editors of specialized shows? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53086	Third correction, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53087	Thank you very much. I correct the incorrect assumption that the ratings of Croatian television are based on the quality of the programme. That's completely incorrect. If there is an increase in ratings, it is probably based on sensationalism. Because do you know who was the most obedient singer in the former Yugoslavia? Nice Brena. You think she was good? And today it'll be soon, Ceca. Do you think Ceca's quality? No, I don't. Your ratings are based not on the quality of the program but only on sensationalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53088	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these two reports. Thank you to HRT Director-General Mirko Galic and the President of the Programme Council, Mr Zdenko Ljevak, for the submitted reports and participation in the debate. The parliament will vote on the proposal for conclusions made by the HDZ club. Do any of the other clubs, I don't know. I'm sure tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53089	We are going to vote on the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on Croatian Television and HTV programmes during the period from 30 June 2004 to 11 July 2005. SDP representative club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53090	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break so the club can consult on the vote on this point, HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53091	Thank you very much. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53092	We're moving on with the session. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53093	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! After a brief consultation at the club, we want to show ourselves about the proposed conclusions that will be voted on here today. We believe that these conclusions continue to pressure the freedom of the public word, the independence of the HRT, are in fact an attack on the Law on HRT and television. It is a confirmation of our blackest hunch that freedom of public words, public television and all principles prescribed by law are placed in the service of one policy or politics. As regards the conclusion which denies the Council's action on HRT in accordance with the law, we believe it is the opposite of that. All well-intentioned people who have read the report can see that the report contains facts that the Council has just monitored the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the law and has warned many times in many ways both the principal directors and the directors of the programme and the editors-in-chiefs who are disputed by these conclusions. In other words, only the report is ignored. In addition, the conclusion which points to the non-professional and illegal operation of HRT is, in fact, the abuse and distortion of facts and financial reports and audit reports themselves, the challenge of the independent audit report, which we keep politically unacceptable. Such disputes can happen on the basis of the law, but there are arguments to do so. My colleagues and colleagues, we cannot vote for these conclusions as we will not reconcile with the fact that Croatia's radio-television, freedom of its journalists, editors and entire houses are placed under a boot policy or under any boot.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53094	Ladies and gentlemen, please. We're going to the vote. We have two conclusions. One refers to the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on HRT Programmes for the period from 30 June 2004 to 11 July 2005. I am voting the conclusion proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. It doesn't work? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll do it again. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. All you have to do is push harder. The result? With 67 votes for, 10 abstentions and 41 against, the proposed conclusions were adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-13-0.u53095	We have another suggestion of conclusions. This is the report of the Croatian Agency for the Business of HRT for 2004 with an independent audit report on the audit of the financial reports carried out for 2004. I am voting the conclusion proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes for, 10 abstentions and 40 against, the club's proposal for a conclusion was adopted.
