ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The government of the Republic of Croatia is constantly taking action in reforming the state administration to adapt it to European standards but ultimately to become a service to citizens. We have a solid state administration based on the Austrian-Hungarian tradition but it can always be better and must follow the trends that occur in the world, which is primarily the legality of the work, primarily the efficiency of the work. We propose an amendment to the FINA Act, the Financial Agency, to establish a mechanism for speeding up and resolving administrative cases in the system we are building. Namely, the Financial Agency has a strong infrastructure, strong personnel capacity, strong IT support, and we think it is better to enable the Financial Agency to open up the possibility to Croatian entrepreneurs or those who wish to do so and provide services in obtaining documents, approvals and other acts issued by state authorities in order to achieve the breakthrough of their objectives faster. We imagined that a future entrepreneur would set up a company for the time being and tomorrow get a building permit to build entrepreneurship facilities with his ideas, with his request to reach a reference in the Financial Agency and that the Financial Agency would then by electronic means obtain from all bodies the necessary approval for the account and on behalf of the future investor. If and when this works and it will work as soon as we pass this law because all technical and material assumptions created and developed models will also have a significant impact on the removal of situations where bribes can be sought and I believe that we will raise Croatia by several places on the corruption scale, as this new approach will reduce the circumstances for corruption. I'm not saying corruption does. I would like whoever claims to have it and that some official is corrupt to deliver such evidence to his boss or me personally, so we will take all the measures to exclude such people from the system but we are now definitely removing the possibility because no civil servant will come into the situation, in a challenge that FINA agents, from their employees, require bribes to issue some kind of document, belief and all that is necessary for the start of businesses and later to obtain construction permits. The "one stop shop" project that starts to develop. Therefore, we have not defined what activities FINA will be able to do but we leave it in line with the development of the project, in line with capacity building, in line with the good experiences gained that the Government then determines when the FINA will be able to take over certain activities. Since everything is ready for the start of "one stop shop" within the framework of the FINA, we propose that this law be adopted by an emergency procedure because it will immediately feel a significant improvement in this part of economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34314	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget Chairman of the Committee is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34315	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Since it is a newspaper and certain concerns expressed about this step allow me to read the position of the Finance Committee. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 26th session held on 8 March 2005 the draft law supplementing the Law on the Financial Agency with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament since 10 February 2005. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. Introductoryly, the Government's representative pointed out that the proposed additions to the Financial Agency Act are prescribed by the competent authority of the Financial Agency in performing the tasks set out in the programme "one stop shop" with the aim of allowing users of state administration services in one place to exercise their rights and needs. The financial agency shall be empowered to provide services to entrepreneurs and other legal and natural persons in order to encourage entrepreneurship and faster economic development of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to carry out administrative and technical tasks in connection with the provision of electronic connection between the authorities of the state administration, other state bodies, the bodies of units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. The Committee supported the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopt the law in question by an urgent procedure, since its adoption creates assumptions as quickly as possible for the start of business of economic operators. The discussion on the board supports the proposed FINA Law additions which will contribute to the resuscitation of the "one stop shop" programme, which aims to promote faster economic development of the Republic of Croatia. However, the concern is whether FINA will be able to carry out these tasks in quality and speed without the parallel training of civil servants and the reconstruction of the state administration. In addition, it was warned that the adoption of this law would make FINA a market monopolist because there is a possibility that FINA would come faster to data from competent state authorities and institutions than other market entities. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Act on the Financial Agency by course an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34316	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34317	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! The HDZ Club will support these amendments and additions to the FINA Act to the Financial Agency and here are just a few reasons why. If we know that nearly 9,000 companies were founded last year, and that calculation shows that it took about 80,000 administrative steps, and if we take each step for one day or eight hours, it's more than 600 thousand hours. We believe that this is one of the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded at its session on 15 October 2004 and at which the session was concluded in terms of the launch of the "one stop shop" as one not agency new but one system of communication that would allow entrepreneurs to carry out all the necessary paperwork such as company registration of registered employees, issuing other necessary documents. In fact, Finna would do so with such a system of communication for them, communicate with other bodies, government bodies such as Regos, pension, health care, and obtain permits. One hundred shops or Croatian if we were trying to translate this, translated this one stop shop because actually a project that would first and first time entrepreneurs and later allow us all to solve administrative problems faster. Because everyone knows how today to get one of the permits, solutions or documents we have to go around more offices and counters and with the kind of stop shop project we would get all of this by not one visit, as it is mostly presented to the public, but from the 9 steps so far that we needed to do for one obtaining a single permit of something, it would all come down to three. It's nice, it's a public notebook and it's an entry in a trading register. It is therefore important that at this moment, we are on the agenda and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Register of Commercial Courts, which we also create assumptions that this project is in reality and in real life. Government of his project and Prime Minister Dr. Sanader announced that this project should also shorten the time needed for various permits to cut costs, but thus also what is most important to reduce the possibility of corruption and bribes. In addition to fina's counters, entrepreneurs who are later also citizens who are supposed to be doing all the jobs in that hundred-store agency would also be available via the Internet in the use of fine smart card and electronic signature. I sincerely hope to him at the HDZ Club that it will really, in a very short time after the entry into force of this law and the law that I also mentioned earlier that it is important to pass it, work very quickly. And by 2007, it will be possible to do these jobs and to the citizens. Because the project should be completed within the next three years when it will be able to provide a total of 20 services according to forecasts. The key preconditions to be achieved to launch the project are infrastructure, networking of state administration bodies, education, availability of services. And also one of the essential features of this project enables supervision of all phases of this process. Entrepreneurs or applicants will at any time know what is going on with their case. Why is that entrusted to Finn? So I think it's perfectly normal and clear because Finna with her 180 businesses across the country is the only one who can do it thanks to the developed IT infrastructure in which she has invested more than 100 million kunas recently. The project wanted to achieve a paper trip instead of people. Initially in paper form and later as much as possible in electronic. In this way, waiting time or time would be needed to solve some of the administrative problems significantly shortened. One stop shop should produce a range of benefits for the Croatian economy, by removing entrepreneurs from the biggest obstacle to investment and the development of red tape problems. Conditions would be created for easier business and greater economic growth. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club will support this law. And in any case, he will once again show and prove that Finn and her employees are capable of implementing complex projects based on top technology and exceptional human potentials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34318	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34319	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HSP Club welcomes today's debate in order to contribute to finding effective solutions that will not be according to that I cannot even promise you and keep. Namely, the problem of bureaucratic barriers, corruption, nepotism, is a myth in the area of entrepreneurship from the establishment of the Croatian state to the day. All authorities have been warning since the establishment of the Croatian state, promised to resolve this problem, but we know ourselves that Croatian citizens are becoming increasingly powerless in this battle because they are David compared to Goliath and Goliath is a bureaucracy that has become its purpose. In order for the HSP to be resolved, it is necessary for us to establish an effective system where the following factors will be Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs or those who want to become entrepreneurs. The agencies will be fina or some other agency or some other body of state administration, appropriate programs, banks that will finance it, and then we get entrepreneurship and new employment. This would be called proper management with a warrant and the state must accept it in order to increase the standard of Croatian citizens, in order to allow new employment. So it's necessary to attach all these factors to a single system and only such a system can bring solutions. We also know that in the field of employment within the framework of government programmes and the former and current Croatian Employment Service there are various programmes. A part of these programmes was also provided by the former Ministry of Entrepreneurship, which were good programmes. But they weren't tied to a system like this. We have, for example, a youth employment programme, a women's programme, a program for Croatian defenders, a programme from tourism, a programme from this, but the whole situation is such that all of this contains the worst possible nepotism and corruption. Someone can get, someone will never get, and therefore, in terms of respect and respect for the rule of law, it is necessary to ensure such an effective system. It means that this agency that this body will lead is, in principle, management with a warrant to take all measures in parallel so that this entire system is rounded up and contributes to the ultimate goal and the ultimate goal is entrepreneurship to create new jobs and that is the only way we can go about raising citizens' standards. We know ourselves what the current state of state administration is today not bound to a unique information system, we know that everything is in worse condition we can judge it ourselves the simplest way when we see what kind of bill we get here from the state administration in the Croatian Parliament. And that red tape, unfortunately, invents new conditions every day, new certificates, and constantly returns a Croatian citizen who wants to go to entrepreneurship who wants to develop his entrepreneurship. It keeps bringing him back in circles, and that's like that part of Kechen's whale book hurts the sea. The exact case when a man wanted to solve a problem so they kept returning it, had a problem, didn't pay his electric bill in time, and eventually they kept counting interest, interest on interest, and couldn't solve the problem. This is also the situation in Croatia in this area of entrepreneurship. And now what to say about the program of one stop shop and a bill of law. The program will turn back into a stop. Because what's contained in the law and what's in the program will not be possible with the amendments and additions of this law, but the program of one stop shop will turn back into stop stop. That is why it is necessary to take more measures and, in principle, as we propose. We can also challenge that part, but we won't dispute why these deals are given to the agency, the FINAs, it doesn't have the status of the central body of the state administration, or the bodies of the state administration. But good to have. But when you look at the solutions contained in the law, it's obvious that it's not going to be possible with those solutions. The very fact that Article 4b states that it is mandatory to accept it, FINA means doing jobs for which it has secured professional technical and other assumptions already gives a disposition that it will decide who it wants, whether there is something, whether there is something and that Article 4d provides that the Government will now determine this part of the regulation which it will do, how it will do it is unacceptable. That means the program isn't fully designed. The programme should stand precisely tax, the agency does that and that, moving in a way, the citizen comes to power, power of attorney to the agency or a contract is concluded or it is an agreement, so it's a management with a warrant, it's about deadlines and everything else. That's what needs to be done, and what's done is only open the debate on this issue, but the solutions that are now contained will not contribute to what is desired, which is the intention of this program and the programme will unfortunately remain stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34320	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34321	Inaccurate quote several times repeated, Mr. Kovacevic in his windy style so he said he would remain program only stop stop stop. This is incorrect, because if he does not know he can go to Vukovar and look at where the program is conducted experimentally so he will see where he will be reassured on the spot at the office of the FINA of Zagreb that it is possible in exactly the way it is legally envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34322	A respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, the HNS Club of PGS. She's gone. He loses his club right to this. The club of IDS MPs, the respected representative of Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34323	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the government, colleagues and colleagues. Taking into account the positive general climate for investment, regardless of yesterday's delay in Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union, short and clear procedures are of paramount importance for the selection of the capital investment destination. If those stop shops are designed to enable users of state administration services to achieve their rights and needs and meet their legal obligations in one place without the necessary knowledge of the jurisdiction and organisational structure of individual bodies of the state administration, then we can view it as a link in the chain to encourage entrepreneurship in the way I explained on behalf of the IDS Club in the debate of the Investment Encouragement Act. I pointed out, among other things, that it is necessary to remove the basic obstacles to realisation and investment in the Republic of Croatia, which are also evident in the lack of coordination in the procedures of users of services and bodies of state institutions as well as public companies. Since this proposal complements the legislation, since this proposal empowers the Financial Agency for the provision of services to entrepreneurs and other legal and physical persons for the sake of faster economic development and entrepreneurship and for the achievement of the rights and interests of individuals and legal entities by adapting the process and increasing the efficiency of the services of the competent authorities in such a way as to enable all users of the services to exercise their rights and needs and to meet their legal obligations in one place without undue cost, without obtaining the same information and documents, without saying "walking" from one body or office to another, and by applying all modern means of integration, we can also place them as incentive measures to invest in the economy. Of course, we have to prepare all the offices, financial agencies very well here so that they can do the job. Of course, in those stop shop programs they will not give themselves the expected results unless the mechanisms for the start-up of the Croatian economy are prepared for the promotion of investment in the Republic of Croatia, which must include the revitalisation of export production, small and medium-sized enterprises, foreign direct investment and regional development. In order to invest in economic branches and activities of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, it is also necessary to define which branches and activities are and to regulate a set of priorities of benefits, co-financing, promotion of production, promotion of exports, I would like to stress tourism. Further, to stimulate investment in areas of particular national interest, but also of particular state concern. Co-finance employment, education, training, employee retraining, in particular co-finance research and science, as well as development, prepare special benefits for our emigrants who want to return to their homeland, etc., etc. Therefore, it is very important that, with the programme, those stop shops are implemented parallelly and other assumptions and preparation of such mechanisms that will attract larger capital and thus start production and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34324	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34325	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Try to imagine a future entrepreneur who, after the first announcement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia about opening and launching the procedure of the stop shop over a year ago decided to wait for that state aid and that efficiency to launch his business project and set up a company. What are his reactions after three delays of project launch and after actually still uncertain dynamics of project development, as well as the very beginning. Today we have here the first law that would allow for those stop shop to be launched, the other laws are announced, and from the very reason in this law we see that there are no technical, and in particular financial assumptions because the budget is not secured nor kuna, but the money can eventually be found in the positions of some ministries. It is true that there are many reasons for the launch of the stop shop in Croatia. The World Bank found in its report that starting a job in Croatia takes 49 days, 49 days and more than 10 steps. But here's how we would welcome the first law to run this area to the government took almost 490 days, and in any case, it's not the first to behave entrepreneurially. It was probably wiser that entrepreneurs themselves set up their own stop shop, started a job, and even invited government officials to that stop shop to shorten procedures, teach them how to speed up steps and how to be more successful in supporting entrepreneurship. It is obvious that associations of entrepreneurs are unemployed, i.e. future tax collectors mistakenly believed in pre-election and post-election promises instead of starting their own business. These additions have only three articles and it is completely unexplainable that these three articles took over a year, and it is inexplicable that these three articles have two amendments to the Committee on Law, so it clearly tells us after a hard work of one year what the quality of these amendments is. We hereby authorise HINA to provide services to the entrepreneur when obtaining data, documents and other acts. In the function of mainly the establishment of a company, and by means of electronic connection between the authorities of the state administration. The HSS, of course, supports an initiative launched by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assist entrepreneurship. However, we consider the project insufficiently ambitious and inappropriate today's technical opportunities and practices of developed countries. With its potential HINA can start the project immediately. We've heard that and we all know that, of course, if the funds in the budget were provided for it, and we all know they're not. We don't even know when it's gonna be. We also don't know when all the other laws that are required to begin will be in the procedure. For more than five years, an electronic trading register has been conducted in Croatia. For more than three years, we have a craft register on the line and today if you report a craft in Dubrovnik or Vukovar almost immediately, the registration of the crafts in a unique register that allows further search and analysis. The same goes for a cooperative registry that has been in office for over three years. Due to the preparations and opportunities that have been made so far, it is time for Croatian entrepreneurs to be allowed, in due course, to register companies, such as this. possibly in Denmark for more than five years, as well as many other countries in the world. This is exactly the step we expect from the Croatian government. That paper that's real help and that's gonna shorten the procedure, that's gonna cut the deadlines. I hope that won't take another 490 days. The project outside the stop shop will reportedly shorten the steps, reduce costs and influence positively if it wants to open a company. But is that right? An entrepreneur who has the means to do so cannot, by electronic means, check the name of the company in a commercial register himself, and can neither by electronic means nor by means of a FINA, enter into a contract on the provision of paper-based services if he wants to start a business. He will still have to come to the FINA to conclude a representation contract, a new step that has not yet been made. He will still have to go to the public notary to draw up a contract on the establishment of a society. He will have to return to FINA again to pay the basic capital for society. He'll still have to take the application to the trade court himself. He'll have to make his own stamp for making payment traffic. They will have to enter into a transaction contract, i.e. the opening of a giro-account and will eventually have to bring data on employees in order to possibly mediate towards the Croatian Pension and Health Insurance Institute. Instead of taking steps in steps, obviously there are steps still. One advantage is possibly pension insurance by the Republic Statistics Institute and some other minor details. The legislator has not solved some unknowns that are proposed to amend this law, and we at the HSS Club have the most objections about giving HINA monopolys. It's actually giving one public authority. However, we believe that public authority can be given to others who have a prerequisite for that. The public authority for the same job could probably be given to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, entrepreneurship centres, and therefore not to private agencies, which is why not to launch a public private partnership through this project. There will remain problems training FINA employees and remains the issue that is very important for entrepreneurs, whether this is all that FINA will do for him, will be free of charge and how much it will cost. FINA is market-oriented and should therefore give the answer before we start further working on this project. I said this project is in the first step of questionable efficiency and efficiency. Of course, I appreciate how this is important to improve the greater in due course, but in this case the projects must be focused on the electronic integration of all authorities, but with the creation of a single computer communications network. It seems to me that for now, we have over 22,000 computers and the main feature of this network is the ability to communicate state within ourselves. The entrepreneur actually stays out of it. That network is completely inaccessible to him. It is denied access to use, even if it wants to search some databases such as the name it wants to give to its company or other similar information. Because of all this, I don't think it's the goal of a line project called one stop shop that the state communicates well within itself and that the entrepreneur stays out of that story. These things should change, we have time for that, and the HSS will support it anyway. In this way, actually, those who have waited until now for the opening of the stop shop will continue to wait and may shorten the steps a bit but the procedure will not be more quality and the state will continue to be closed to it as it has so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34326	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative has given two incorrect information. The first is that the funds are not secured in the state budget for this large and significant project for the progress of the Croatian economy. The money is in the budget and this is in the final budget for this year, and a new item will be opened for the next year, of course, because the project will go into implementation. And secondly, the project is late. It may be late, but this project has started working since the first day of its term of office and practically a year the project is already in the phase of implementation, in the control phase, in the phase of control of the government itself. So the dynamics of the project are not too late, it is really the way this government predicted. This means the first year is the creation of a project, the second year of application in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34328	Dear Representative Slavko Linic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34329	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. The SDP club will also make a positive assessment of the proposed legal text, but we want to express very clearly our own skepticism and our own thinking in which we fear that the proposed legal text will not get the intended effects, and on the other hand we want very clearly to read about, I would say these years and several months of government work on the reorganisation of the state administration because it is in some way the result of this legal text. We want to point out immediately that FINA is an institution that can do the above-mentioned work. It is possible to organise and provide these services both materially and technically and humanly, but it is only an assessment of the SDP in FINA. At the same time, we estimate that it will not be the management that will be able to do the above-mentioned work on the other hand. It won't be. There are no legal projects that should have broken individual barriers because the barriers are not, barriers are not just people, management. Barriers are also legal texts that laws today existing walk users of these services from one door to the other. These same walks will now be carried out by experts, professionals who must know both the laws and administration in the FINA. Thus, again, it is the biggest problem that will remain the length of time to solve a particular case and we estimate that this Law has not solved the problem of length of proceedings. He only somehow directed the service user to one place, so instead of a continuous walk, it would now be his door only to the door of the FINA. Therefore, the long-term work by which we would have to amend laws that would not move jurisdiction on certain issues to a dozen administrative bodies but only one administrative body is the only way to resolve the long-term process. I have to say that the Croatian Government has been investigating for ten years with experts from the World Bank how to legislatively increase the efficiency of the state administration, so it was once Fias' study on the collapse of administrative barriers, so in the last two years, if I am not mistaken and a special project "PAL project" that speaks of how to break down barriers, about cutting procedures, I would say the declaration of one or two competent administrative authorities as responsible for certain problems and of course what is a necessary education of professional staff who would have to respond to these changed conditions. That's what we have to admit that it hasn't been solved. This is what is still waiting for us here in the parliamentary benches, but I would say the entire Croatian administration. And that's why I'm afraid that apart from having a closer contact service user with someone in FINA, we're not going to get what we want because with this law it's evident that we need to change a number of other laws, we need to change behavior in the administration. It needs to be changed through the education of people and through the creation of that fundamental principle in the administration. The solution is always at the door of one governing body. Because if there are several administrative bodies, then there are certain problems, and there are always problems in life, the solution is on the neighbor's door, not on its doorstep. And that's the basic rule in the administration, which is why we're simply losing procedures, we're losing energy, we're getting unsatisfactory users, especially entrepreneurs. And the government itself estimated that the necessary change in the economy is as many entrepreneurs as possible, as many of their own initiatives as possible, as many people who will take care of their own jobs. This law won't solve it, it won't solve it. Because we didn't speed up the procedure. And that's something we need to be aware of. We can't try to strengthen again, I'd say trust, user optimism because this law won't give that efficiency. What we must also say would be better for us Parliamentarians if we had defined this Law and some procedures because what is clear to all of us in the first place would only go to register companies or crafts, and what we are interested in are more complex ground-book procedures, that is a matter of location, building permits, that is something that will not go at first time, but whether through this Law we had to prescribe some minimum deadlines and when these procedures or when these procedures would have to be carried out at the earliest time through the FINA project. We didn't. We left it to the government again. We left it to who again? So the proposings themselves will always be management and whether management will be enough, I would say both flexible and sufficiently interested in solving these problems in one place. It's a It'll give us some resistance. It's the knowledge of all those who know I'd say the structure of the administration and the way in which you run the business through the administrative bodies. We have to say that at the same time our assessment is that in a year we have increased the number of administrative bodies, increased the number of administrative departments, that we have increased the number of employees, that we are now creating again I would say a good part of the people who are going to work in the FINA, all of this kind of collects the state administration. It collects, a larger number of administrations, a larger number of FINA employees now. That's what someone's gonna have to pay for. We would have to prescribe in this law that deals with state bodies will be paid from the State budget because FINA is still I would say an institution that today, tomorrow most of its revenues will be realised on the market and I would say to charge my services. We had to make it very clear that all these communication procedures with the state authorities should be paid from the State budget and that it would be the work of the FINA to be financed from the State budget regardless of the demand we will have from the service user. So I think we even had to prescribe that at the time when the service user fulfils the obligations to the state authorities, and it will benefit FINA that even then maybe we should have prescribed payment from the State budget. Why? So I would estimate that we have a huge problem in collecting income, to see that simply the Government must even enter again into the ownership of companies because it is difficult to collect its taxes, its revenues, its own, I would say contributions and remain the question of whether maybe we could have gone financially better if we put that possibility for users to apply their obligations when they also perform free of charge through the FINA. Because it is in this period of time the interest of both the Croatian Government and the Croatian budget. And I think we may have been able to resolve this and try simply through this Law for a year, for two years very clearly and transparently indicate that there is no fear of entrepreneurs or individuals who will eventually fulfil their obligations to the state body. What we also want to make very clear is that we do not like the reasoning that follows this Law. It would have been a lot easier for all of us if we had openly admitted that we were having problems with the state administration. If the process that we have, I would say a document with the World Bank is about at least 4 to 5 years of persistent intensive work on education, on changes in the administration to get efficiency that we might be satisfied with. And that it is evident that the time period of 4.5 years that we need to modernise exactly, in order to train it better, is looking for such an at-hok solution, I would say solutions that we have to look for outside of administrative institutions. So we need time. It's not what I'd say, total incompetence, but it's a problem of time. Time and a late start, but we're trying to say there's no problem in the administration. That's not true, if such an approach with such opinions about our administration we enter that moment we won't get the effects that we imagine we're going to need to get this law. So if we were to openly state the situation in that administration, if we were to try only the documents we have written that we have somehow received as experiences of both world experts and European countries and transition countries and try to say that in time we need these solutions, I think it would be far, far more honest to be sure of the greater effect of the law itself. For this reason, we are little and rough in our assessment when we say that we agree with this proposal but we estimate that at the same time the Government is not enough to do so and to point out clearly the problems in the administration, that it is not clear how long it takes us to solve the problems of that administration. That there are no clearly indicated problems that will arise with such an organized administration. And of course we simply estimate that tomorrow it is possible that the government and the blame for any failure will only be transferred to Finn, because she is still the administrative institution. And I'd say an institution that still cannot be directly influenced by the government except through administrative bodies. Here's so much about the law itself, so much about our anxiety why we don't expect major effects, and we want to make it clear to all future users that they're not disappointed. Because what everyone needs is time. At the same time you know we can't throw all responsibility to the administration. I just remember that in this House we heard extraordinary words a few months ago about how much we're going to stop a foreign charter, a black charter and this and that. We're pulling back under pressure. Once again, our entrepreneurs of our people, I would say our craftsmen put in a difficult position, because I simply press from all sides. And the big announcements are pulling back. I'd say, the legal solutions that were going to not come in the text as they were said. Therefore, it is obvious that politics is also the policy of the ruling party, which in some ways constantly confuses, uncertainty, and cannot blame all administration. And maybe another suggestion when we're already on our way to amending the Finna Act, I wonder why the government didn't respect the union's request that we have a worker representative in the administrative bodies like we do with companies and for what reason. Well, the reason we're in Finna is because there's a privatisation waiting for us. Part of the business that Fina is doing is purely market business, it is evident that we would get a more efficient fina tomorrow to really be a financial institution would be a necessary part of the business through someone I would say, a company as non-corr business separates, and it is evident that in that opinion workers will and how crucial it is. And I think it was necessary to respect the employee's request because I have almost or over 5,000 employees according to that huge number of employees. YES, we have a representative of the board of directors in view of the processes that will continue to take place in Finland. And that is why the SDP in some way suggests that it may complete the proposal for this law with this amendment, given that we do not have the possibility because the proposed amendments in the amendments do not allow the club to propose the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34330	Thank you very much. One notice. There have been numerous initiatives and proposals from representatives' clubs not to hold a session Thursday, and today has just been consulted by all representatives' clubs so the session does not take place on Thursday 24th, but begins on Tuesday 22nd. So according to this consensually agreed position of all the representatives' clubs, then the session will not be 24th but will begin on Tuesday 22nd. On Wednesday 23rd and then on 30 March, 31 March and 1 April. State Secretary Antun Palaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond to the stated thesis that there are more institutions and more civil servants. We have answered the parliamentary question of Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinović's distinguished MPs, and therefore, according to our data, there are 1200 state officials and tenants in the state administration less during 2004. And along with military personnel who are no longer on the budget over 5,000 is less on the state budget with 1.1. 2005. And that the state service is not perfect, so we are taking a number of measures and activities we have built a centre for the education of civil servants we know that we need to learn a lot in this project as well. And here comes a new law on state service which will continue to be a step towards raising the quality of civil servants. Of course, the processes will last and we will make additional efforts to improve the quality of the state service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34332	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34333	Mr. President, the Secretary of State has just said that my parliamentary question is addressed to the government how many in the government and certain ministries employ new people for an indefinite period of time, as per the contract of action and how many trainees. However, the government responded all together, so the government replied to me that she hired 1178 employees and tenants, and even though it was specific how many officers and tenants for an indefinite period of time, how many for a certain period of time and how many trainees. But she didn't answer me as much as she did in certain ministries. So I'm going to "repeat" the question because this is a question, because the answer is not complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34334	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34335	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, Croatia needs a good business climate. This is what every country needs and we need it especially because we want to improve our economy. Among other essential measures that would ensure a good entrepreneurship climate, which is clear legislation, stimulating tax policy, adequate infrastructure and the like. Certainly, the government should also ensure an efficient and educated state administration that will not be an obstacle to entrepreneurs. Citizens also expect efficiency in the operations they have to carry out with the state or state administration in various permits, and various other businesses they carry out at that level, so it is an obligation for the authorities to continuously analyse how these transactions are done, how effective they are, how professional the state administration is and how effective it is to provide all citizens who come into contact with it. So I was surprised by this assessment by Mr. Palarić that our state administration is good, that it is based on the tradition of the Austrian-Hungarian tradition that some villain might then translate that it is at some level of transition in the 19th century. The fact is that the state administration is not effective, the fact is that we've been wanting and dealing with this problem for a long time and we want to solve it in a good way, but all the moves we've seen so far have not produced the results that were expected. So this is where Fias' study was already mentioned for removing administrative barriers, and then the president, the current Prime Minister, represented the government's programme as one of the major projects, also announced, the establishment of so-called. those stop shops. And there's a quarter of this government's mandate behind us, even more, and we're just starting to discuss this project. And we got the first step, or half-step I'd say, because there's only a law in front of us that will allow the Financial Agency to start doing these jobs. Namely, the assessment is that the FINA so far is doing well, we could read it from the evaluations and discussions that were about the work of the Financial Agency just a few days ago. That she is not only a state institution but is increasingly turning to the market and is working well on these projects that, and the jobs she gets on the market. In this regard, therefore, there should be no doubt or object to the Agency’s doing so. However, there is a certain concern here and this should be said that since it is in one part and in the good part of the state agency at the moment, and that these jobs are working on the market and that it will actually mean hitting on others who are doing so on the market, there may be little doubt that it could be a unfair competitor because as such it might be able to break faster into these administrative barriers through the state administration. On the other hand, I'm saying here, we're only giving jurisdiction and we haven't said anything about what this is going to be the second step, what else has to be done, what are those jobs that are going to be phased out, etc. So it's obvious that in these little over a year we haven't really come up with this project, and we can't see it either from the reasons of this law, or from the law itself. We're just opening up an opportunity to start some business. I personally don't mind that we start working this way, but it's obvious that time is passing and that we should come here very quickly for discussion and other laws related to this issue so that we really do this half-step, but a full step in solving these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34336	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Pero Kovacevic And you're a replica? [[/Intruder: Replica. No, no, replica, replica.]] Excuse me. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, yes.]] Then before, there is a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Velimir Ples.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34337	Well, there's only one quote to correct respected colleagues who said they weren't yet made a prerequisite that it was only a first step or a half step. Mrs. Zgrebec, this job one stop shop experimentally and it is already being carried out at a very high stage. And I suggest you also go to Vukovar Street to the office of FINE and you will see that this is possible and that this project is being implemented. In addition, since you and I from Čakovec and the Chakovez branch together with the state administration are as important as mentions, together with the state administration is able very quickly, not to say tomorrow, to start doing the job of one stop shop.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34338	Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34339	Madam, dear colleague Zgrebec has determined exactly what state the government is in. But the truth of why the state administration is in such a state is to blame the former government, because it also carried out under quotes "reform" state administration in 2001 on the principle of similarity and nepotism and introduced a system of wages according to the principle of volunteerism and... And she broke collective agreements herself that she had signed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, it was thus done that the state administration's professional staff was forced to leave because their salaries were reduced and they were introduced into the system of ministerial assistants, they took people without years of internships and thus made a total contribution to the collapse of the system of state administration and officials themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34340	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34341	Well, it's obvious that we're in pre-election time at least locally, which is why we're doing such flatulent grades. Since 95, the government has been constantly trying to solve problems in the state administration, so is the government of Mr. Matesha and Mr. Racan, and so is today Mr. Sanader's government. However, it should be said that in the last term, the government did something that was a newspaper, and that at a large number of levels related to the state administration, it had called competitions which had not been the situation until then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34342	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34343	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'll paraphrasise a saying that says, "If you don't know where you need to go, they'll bring you there every time." This is about today's law saying, if you don't know what to do, it doesn't matter where you're going to do it. We have been talking about the stop shop since the start of the government's presentation, but in all that time we haven't actually learned what those stop shops should be doing. It is said that he should bridge administrative barriers for entrepreneurs, that he should facilitate this or that, but we still don't know what this agency should be doing. What are the specific jobs that those stop shop agencies should do for entrepreneurs, for beginners, for entrepreneurs of a foreign investor, for entrepreneurs who work and who want to expand their activities, for entrepreneurs who have other problems such as problems with building and other permits. What I have been able to perceive all this time and so it is 14 months since it was said that these agencies that the government has faced as huge problems, it has been how to translate those stop shops into Croatia, so what would be the version of that syntagma in Croatia. And two. Where would be the stand for those stops. So, where would be the position of that agency. So we've been getting information lately so it'll be FINA. However, in order for FINA to be one of three possible positions where the entrepreneur would stop to realize his entrepreneurial idea. What we had the opportunity to hear at the beginning of the term of office, which was said by the esteemed representative Hebrang, that it took 27 permits to open up the company. Unfortunately, we have not heard what 27 permits to open the company, and we are not even convinced that such a solution or any other solution will result in it being done in one place and that it can be done in the shortest or expected short time for the entrepreneur, because we all agree that the entrepreneur should be given the opportunity to deal with what is best known and it is entrepreneurship, and that the state administration, so the state administration and other accompanying services should enable him to shorten the time it takes to assume that he is engaged in entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, I think even today the government is not aware of this law or does not know exactly what is needed to open up the company. That he doesn't know exactly what it takes to get a building permit, and he doesn't know everything he needs to do, for example, to recapitalize a company, so she decided to make that stop shop in FINA. I personally support the idea and the initiative to form the agency of the stop shop and, as my colleague said in Čakovec for example, you can get an extremely high-quality and good service at the entrepreneurship centre in Čakovec that works great and allows entrepreneurs to bridge the light of the barriers they face in achieving their entrepreneurial idea of telling him at that place what he needs from the permits, to create a business plan, to make him physical studies, to suggest to him in which entrepreneurship zone he invests, to suggest to him which lawyer to turn or any public notary to turn to and ultimately he can implement it because other accompanying services are at a very high level such as the catastrast, such as the gruntovnica, such as the Office of State Administration. So it's all already possible there and essentially in Čakovec de facto you don't even need to open those stop shop in FINA, he de facto works at the entrepreneurship center. Therefore, the question arises whether entrepreneurship centres or business incubators are not a better place to set up agencies one stop shop. You have another situation in Koprivnica where I responsibly claim that you can get a building permit within seven days. You have a chance to check this out and now in a situation like when INA asked for a location permit to reconstruct a gas station where indeed within seven days they got a location permit, or all the necessary conditions. When building a project in accordance with the conditions will get just as much as a construction permit within seven days, but here we are talking about that now FINA or someone third will be in a position to bridge these huge administrative barriers in obtaining a building permit, claiming that those who said it and wrote don't know what it takes for a building permit and don't know which way the building permit is going through, which channels require all the consent for a building permit when you build one banal hall for example for a concrete store or when you do something like your colleague Hebrang was doing, so the office. These are all the problems this law here unfortunately doesn't answer. He does not respond because it sets only a place for something we do not know yet what should be, so what jobs should the agency do. I don't know if you know that there's a shopping shop in the FINA right now. Now I'm asking the question in which correlation will be that shopping store with that stop shop, and it's all in the same space in the same building and doing the same people. Are we just going to build up some agencies and some services that we can't even find a Croatian translation, we're not going to complicate the situation in FINA, so we're going to also de facto prevent entrepreneurs from getting what they want, which is that they have a fast service in the state administration. I personally think and advocate again, therefore, the entrepreneurship service, or service for entrepreneurs, but I don't think the state needs to transfer its responsibility for inefficientness to someone else. We have state administration offices in every county and I see no reason why public administration offices are not places where the government has direct responsibility and simply has a subordination possibility of managing the offices of the state administration to be where the problems and questions of entrepreneurs will be solved and then what counterpart Linic was saying will not be on a commercial basis but will be de facto paid from the state budget. In this way, we will also allow a portion of the civil servants to find a new job, so that we can expand the spectrum of services we provide to citizens, and at some point when we will be aware that we have extra employees, we will not fire them, but we will find them new jobs. Likewise, if our argument is networking, so digitization and networking of all services and structures, then I think it's absolutely necessary and that the place is the same as being networked first in the offices of the state administration. For example, it does not issue FINA to the housekeeper, it does not issue FINA other documents that the entrepreneur needs to open up the company, but it is all done by institutions that are in the system of state administration, or in the system of some of the ministries. So I propose to the government to change the place and to move that place of one stop to the state administration, and to leave the FINAs with this possibility that FINA provides services for entrepreneurs, so that on a commercial basis some of the entrepreneurs can come to the FINA and say ok. Give it to me because I don't even want to go to the state administration's office. In this way we are still slightly delaying the whole process, and in order for us to even pass this law to happen, we have to change a whole series of laws, because I repeat it is not a problem in that stop shop in that we cannot translate it into Croatian and we have not yet known where we are going to position it, but the problem in the whole series of implementing laws and the problem is in the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34344	Thank you. Two replicas. First, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34345	Dear counterpart Mršić spoke of a wonderful and wonderful situation in the area of Koprivnica-Kristevci County and highlighted the example of INA, which was granted a building permit in just seven days. That doesn't surprise me. But I can point out to you my colleague Mršić an example of 20 people, because I had an orderly day in Koprivnica, and women and young entrepreneurs and farmers who appeared to the county commission who had been stalling them for over a year to get this confirmation, to get that confirmation. So we, as representatives from that constituency, should discuss it. The same situation is in the Bjelovar-Belova County. That's the situation. So it's not about voters or voters of HSP, it's about Croatian citizens, so try and work with me to keep these barriers, and you're not just talking to the state administration, but you're talking about both the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County where you're in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34346	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34347	Well, you see, fellow Kovacevic, there's a big difference between you and me. You come on representative trips to Koprivnica, and I sleep in Koprivnica every day. Every day and in the morning and afternoon and at night, I meet with these people and with these citizens, and I am responsible for saying that what you said is not at least true about Koprivnica, is it not? I can also present you with information about the number of entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs and beginners. The town of Koprivnica is the city that had the largest credit fund for young people and beginners of 4 million kunas, from which 52 new crafts and companies employed 105 new people. Koprivnica-Krisjevačka County, together with the towns Križevci, Đurđevac, Koprivnica and the municipality of Molve, formed a 400-million-dollar credit fund for lending to entrepreneurs 1 and 2. Koprivnica-Krisjevaca County is the first county to join the new credit fund "Incentive to Success". So what are we talking about now? You get there... Come on, you give me that particular information. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You come on a trip to Koprivnica and think...... And you think that, that you can solve all the problems. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There are very, very effective authorities in Koprivnica, Koprivnica-Križevci County, and this will be witnessed to you by the government at 11 o'clock, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will present two, two best prizes for two of the best practices of 5 this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34348	And another replica of the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34349	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I agree with most of the things Mr. Mrsic said, and I'm afraid it's a misunderstanding. FINA will not take over all 29 activities, so it will not take over the development of an operational programme, the development of a financial, building permit programme. FINA will take over the 9 procedures necessary for the registration of companies and then, at its outposts, we have decided to refer to FINA for a quick solution to the problem of all the other projects you have said. So the goal is to turn 9 steps to register companies into one step. That project has already been built in the FINA. Why Finna? Because before that, the government tried three other projects. No one would have gone through without major investments because they need to build a large network of these facilities and network them all. It's fine. It's all there is to it. And secondly, FINA has experts who know how to register a company. So we decided in the first step for FINA which, of course, leaves open the possibilities for tomorrow to do so and, and other institutions. So to conclude: FINA should do 9 procedures for registering companies, and for all these complicated things that you have said and which we have all been through in entrepreneurship will point out to those institutions that solve it. It's a first-step assignment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34350	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34351	So I allow my colleague Hebrang to know much better what FINA will do, but either, because, because this proposal came about when you were the Deputy Prime Minister, but then it would be good if you told us MPs, as well as the amendments to the law, what exactly are the activities FINA's activities to deal with because this bill doesn't say that. According to this Bill proposal, FINA will serve on a commercial basis as a agency for overcoming all problems and will actually be a "one stop shop" place for everyone not just for the establishment of businesses, not just for the establishment of companies. But if it's business creation, then I think, where I think FINA doesn't know how companies are founded, because it's never been FINA's business creation, either, except for the award of giro-accounts, temporary and permanent by the time the gyro-accounts, or payment traffic, have gone into the domain of banks, but if anyone knows in this country how companies are founded, then it's public records. So if that's all we wanted to do then we could subsidize for example those jobs to public notebooks so that public notebooks like they do today, you come to the public notebook and say, OK, I want to start a company and he gets you all the other jobs that he needs from the purchase, I don't know all kinds of documents. All this can, it will, on the same principle it will need to do so here, because I assume that the entrepreneur will need the authority certified by the public notary to bring in the FINA that FINA for his account and, for example, on his behalf requires a confirmation of impunity. That's not going to be able to do it originally. So if that's all it is, then it should've been put in the public notebook.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34352	Thank you. At 10.39, it was time to discuss 10 minutes of application for debate. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34353	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say, I don't believe in any dramatic change in any segment of life that's going to happen overnight or any spectacular improvement. Also related to this Law, but what I don't think we can dispute the law is that it will still bring certain improvements and that it will still help people on the ground who, in the proceedings before our state bodies, want to achieve some, some of their rights or interests. There's been a lot of talk here about what FINA's gonna do about this. We will know these things only when the Government adopts a precise regulation that will specify what tasks FINA will do. But what I expect might happen in any case is, those segments that we keep records of with our state bodies, which are, in fact, where there are on the data banks' computers about it, I think it will be FINA's available and that FINA will be able to give information about it. So, for example, when an entrepreneur or a commercial company appears in a public tender, wants to win, wants to get a job, it will get the necessary bon 1 and the required bon 2, but I guess now, under the basis of this Act, it will also be able to obtain a extract from the trade register because it is also a document that must always be extracted. It's a document that has to be at least 30 days. Now, in one place, they're going to get both bon 1 and bon 2 and I'm guessing that excerpt from the trade register, so that entrepreneur is going to save himself and he won't have to go to the Board of Commerce's headquarters where he's been getting it now. That is already a great help to me, but one significant step in all this. There's been a lot of talk about starting companies. I have to say that this is no longer a problem in Croatia today, and in my view, FINA will not have any major significance, because as a natural person who wants to start a company, you simply come to a public notary, you give a statement to the public notary about the establishment of this company and a statement by the director to accept the appointment as director. Such documentation goes to the Trade Court and today, the registration procedure in Croatia takes 15 days. The public saying that I do not know how many documents are needed is simply not true and, as we see in the procedure, a new, amendments to the Law on the Court Register and there are also envisaged certain improvements so that a number of statements that people have had to make so far with the public notary are now being amended by the Law on the Court Register being moved and that will also be done more easily. So I think that in this law it is necessary to recognise the good intentions that exist in any case, and FINA will, of course, be limited once, I would say at this point the poor information connection between our state bodies and certainly this is what I consider a transitional solution and the goal is when you come into a state body that actually that state body is networked with everyone else, when you come to get a building permit that you don't have to go especially to the Municipal Court in the Land and Book Department, and now you're going to have to get an excerpt that you own the property, but our County Office is going to enter the data bank, and they're going to see that you own that lot, and that way you won't have to walk from one office to another. But in any case, until there's no such thing, because it's one process for all state bodies to be networked and, of course, to collect the process, until it's all done, I think this is an important improvement that will certainly help entrepreneurs on the ground, absolutely certainly, absolutely, and there's a good intention that is clearly necessary to recognize. The law is, the law is otherwise here there are three articles here I would just nomotechnically say in this article 4.b. In order for it to be good, it reads, the Jobs of Article 41. The law of the Agency shall be based on the written authority of the contracting authority of the service provider of the supply of the business. And it is mandatory to accept the performance of tasks for which professional technical and other assumptions are provided. I'd actually cut this text in half, so I'd say, yes, the jobs in Article 41a. The Agency shall exercise this law by virtue of the written authority of the contracting authority of the service provider of the supply of the business. And this is all related to professional technical and other assumptions that the Government will already have in mind when it adopts this Regulation referred to in Article 4d. So that Article 4b. and Article 4d. I don't think it would be much better to be precise in this way. In any case, I support the adoption of this law. I do not expect dramatic and spectacular changes, but in any case certain improvements on the ground will people feel at these little things that I said because it will save the entrepreneur one day if, for example, the company has applied to some public job tender he had to take out a bon 1 and a bon 2 in Ina today and he had to go to the Commercial Court of Zagreb which the Court of Justice took out a copy of his company's registration in the register that must not be older than 15 or 30 days. So here on this little thing we can see what improvements we're going to have. I would agree here with my colleague Kovacevic, who warned in his presentation, and I am very often when we talked about our state administration that the problem is actually that administration and wages and poor information. In any case, I have repeated this if people who have a high level of expertise who have to pass a state-level professional exam that must be highly educated, professional work for some really small wages is difficult to expect some great engagement and quality people actually manage and go to better paid jobs. In any case, I understand the situation in which our society is clear to me and the external debt, and the deficit of the state budget, but we will certainly have to do something in that segment because this is the state I think has no quality state without information assumptions and without satisfied and well-paid people. So I think that this law that's going to go on about the State Service has to take care of whether rationalization is needed, whether it takes so many people, if it's necessary more, are all the questions that really need to be taken care of. I support this law, I think it will bring some improvements in the field that people in these specific jobs will feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34354	Thank you. The first replica of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34355	Thank you, Mr. President, here's an esteemed colleague who said that yet this bill is one step ahead, that no spectacular changes will occur but that it expects changes. Unfortunately, no change is going to happen, and we can soon see that we can make a proposal for a conclusion, so follow the effects of this law. However, it is not possible to base these four provisions of the Financial Agency Act which are changing or introducing amendments and supplementing something significant. A colleague said that the government will determine exactly by a regulation that is part of the business. First of all, it seems to me that there is a key problem when certain powers are given is fundamentally in one law to establish the partial business that one institution is carrying out. I think that's the basic principle of legality. And if we wanted to change something, then it should be the obligation of the financial agency, which is why it is, of course, also financial support. This is how it stays very indeterminate, and I'm going to discuss it and say that, unfortunately, here's just one brief declaration, this is not even the law. Because he doesn't have any congestive norms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34356	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34357	My colleagues will be changed. What I said, as an entrepreneur, I as an entrepreneur if I don't have to go to the Commercial Court in Zagreb today and if I haven't lost that day if I'm going to do both bon 1 and bon 2 if I'm going to do the same place and the extract from the Trade Register is very important to me that day. I saved one day and I have time to dedicate it to something else. It's a very important help to me as a small entrepreneur. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34358	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34359	Well, here's a colleague of Bosnjakovic's confirmed what I was saying was being talked about here by an agency without actually knowing what she should be doing and what jobs she's doing. So he mentioned that building permits would be easier to get out because there are already some databases there. I'm responsible for saying that most of those who say that don't know what they need for a building permit. And you need, for example, the conditions or the consent that the conditions are respected mainly through the HT project. To get that, someone from HT has to give you that kind of consent. Unfortunately, no one's doing it today. There's no service there to do it. And the question arises whether or not THT's gonna kick it out of their jobs. Why would he pay someone there for a defacto government job. The same question, or the same problem will be when Ina is privatized completely, because someone will need to give consent on and conditions for, say, joining the building to some things or how to save the corridors for the bus pipelines for some other things. Therefore, it is certainly not in the system of state administration. And today I'm responsible for saying one big problem is that you have to wait a very long time for exactly the consent of THT because they've been doing miracles in certain cities by doing TK sewers and creating conditions for a future period. So it can't solve even those stop shops can't even solve the state administration. There is even a question of how to make it a responsibility in THT to betray such consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34360	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Drazen Boznikovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34361	A colleague Mršić is neither the goal nor the purpose of this law nor the intention of him to do everything for you. One stop shop. When you start a company, you know you can't have an official in one stop shop make a statement for you about the establishment of a company. You'll have to do it yourself. Just as well as here, and project to make on a building permit and all that. But the point and intention of the law is to help you to avoid having to take some data to some ID, and you don't have to go to five places to take it out. But it means it's going to be placed there and they're leaving you a certificate in that sense, and I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34362	Dear Representative Zvonimir Puljic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34363	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal, i.e. Supplements to the Financial Agency Act for me create legal assumptions for the implementation of an extremely valuable Croatian government programme one stop shop. To make it easier for citizens and business entities, to speed up, and to communicate with the state administration and local government in many ways to save the loss of time and finance and a lot of anxiety. On the one hand, not knowing the complex structure of the state administration, and the local area of self-government, and on the other hand a large number of different confirmations of the consent of the solution and the generally necessary documents in the procedures for the exercise of certain rights and interests of citizens and legal persons create dissatisfaction. And often financial damage due to the longevity and fatigue of the procedure. The improvement of the situation is certainly in rationalising and simplifying procedures, removing duplication and applying and legalising the application of modern technologies, e.g. the use of electronic signatures and the like. And in all segments of the administration. In order for citizens and legal persons to feel the effects of this effort as soon as possible, this project, which is prescribed and awarded to the Financial Agency by the stop shop, gives the Financial Agency the role of interfaces, interfaces between the parties, means between citizens and entrepreneurs and state administration, one complex system which many of these parties are unknown. The choice of FINA for this role I think is a full hit, because with a half-century tradition in similar jobs, quality and numerous human resources, about 5,000 employees, expanded by infrastructure around 180 businesses throughout Croatia and with a developed information and communication network, I think that FINA is the most potent partner of the state for the rapid establishment and application of this complex programme, which will start with a project of serviceing the need for the establishment of a limited-responsibility society. But the whole project foresees much more functions that would be done in this way for citizens faster and more successful. On the counters one stop shop in FINA will be able to obtain information on the process of opening a company, carry out a check i.e. insight into the trade register, i.e. the court register of the Commercial Court, payment of core capital, payment of fees and expenses, receipt of notices on the classification of a business entity by the State Bureau of Statistics, applications at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Croatian Health Insurance Office. All necessary forms will also be available in the FINA so they won't have to run in the People's Newspaper. And probably the state of the request will be able to obtain the degree of processing and check the phone instead of asking on the counter one stop shop in the FINA. As long as the use of digital signature is resolved, there are no conditions that procedures can also be solved via the Internet. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, I think that this project is important to move forward as soon as possible and will be perfected in practice and increasingly efficient, so we support it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34364	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the promoters. At first, I must say that I support, welcome the objective of the law. So that's a welcome goal. And the second question is how to reach that goal and whether this law ensures that the goal is achieved. The aim is therefore to intervene effectively between the state and entrepreneurs and citizens for the benefit of entrepreneurs and citizens. But I need to tell you two facts right now. In Croatia, the state organisation, the district and jurisdiction have changed five times in 15 years. Secondly, today in the Croatian state administration, I do not know the exact details, but several tens of thousands of workers, several tens of thousands of workers. And this law has the ambition to solve that barrier in one move by expanding the activity of an agency. So whether it is possible to achieve these objectives only by expanding the activity of an agency. If it really is then, the government thinks that there is no problem in the Croatian state administration except organisational ones. So workers, employees are well paid, the stability of the organization of the state administration is excellent, permanent, all citizens know where they can be solved, where they can't. Then technological progress and the equipment of the state administration is great, state records are valid and guaranteed by the state. Oh, please, ladies and gentlemen. The state does not guarantee accuracy even of land books, it explicitly states in the law. So what's the FINA Agency going to deal with for an entrepreneur? Do you think that the extract from the land book supplied by the agency will have more validity and greater guarantee from the Croatian state than when requested, without obtaining the owner of the plot. This is colleagues and colleagues' alibi law, alibi law that's pure volunteerism in solving problems. That this is the case, even the legislator does not state the tasks that FINA will carry out under this law. If we were to be convinced that the FINA can do so, be assured, the government would make that clear. It's simply a message to the public and to the entrepreneurs, the law says what FINA will do. It is not there, the government will transfer it objectively to the FINA by its regulation depending on the agreement whether FINA can do so. To make another absurd point. If FINA has in its ranks now qualified people to solve barriers, barriers and enable Croatian competitiveness in the entrepreneurial sense, how come the state has not qualified 40, now let's say that number, thousands of government employees can do it in a thousand places. How rationally she has not now been using the state organisation and employees of the state administration. So there's no talking about systematic access to things. The colleagues here have already said that it is possible for FINA to obtain a copy of the position plan of some implementing urban plan that it is a valid copy without the owner of the plot. How can we count on FINA to get, let's say energy consent to build buildings when it can't own a plot or an existing building permit. So colleagues and colleagues go back to what we have. We have a state administration that is unorganized, unplanned, constantly changing the organisation of the district and jurisdiction, poorly paid, poorly paid, there is no possibility at all to hire professionals who deserve to be paid or employed by contract, and not by solution. Let's get back to the tech equipment of the state administration, equip her. Let us return to the records for which the state must guarantee, primarily land books and catastros, and then we can talk about raising the competitiveness of the Croatian state and the ability to resolve the barrier for the entrepreneur in one or at least one week. This is how I think we're going to open up FINA's problems, because FINA is designed for privatisation and in its already existing activity there are a lot of jobs that are purely commercial and should develop these jobs, and not on INA to transfer responsibility to the state administration. If we do this problem we may be able to postpone or banish for six months or a year, but it will return in a stronger form to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament but this is a minor problem, it will return to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we will be late in the resolution and reorganisation of the state administration, its modernisation, its education, its award and rational approach. We have to be responsible for our colleagues because a law that doesn't tell us what's being passed on to INA is the Bianca Law. So we're going to raise our hand to the Bianca Authority of the FINA rather than be responsible for the organization and business of the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34366	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34367	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. One of the main objectives of the government's economic policy is to strengthen entrepreneurship. This proposal for a law supplementing the Financial Agency Act creates assumptions for simplifying administrative procedures and removing frequently mentioned bureaucratic obstacles as a obstacle to the rapid development of entrepreneurship. Accordingly, the Government is launching a stop shop programme aimed at a faster, simpler and more complete exercise of the rights and interests of citizens and legal entities in front of the competent authorities. This simply means that the time of registration, the number of forms and documents needed, the number of official licences and certificates will be reduced due to the launch of economic activity, the opening of crafts and small and medium-sized companies. In order for this programme to function as quickly as possible, it is necessary to establish an institution that will carry out these tasks and the Government proposes that it be a FINA and, therefore, the Financial Agency Act must be supplemented by an urgent procedure. The Government's proposal to perform these tasks is understandable for several very well-founded reasons. First, FINA has the most territorial network of offices, 187 businesses on more than 150,000 square meters. There are also legal entities and citizens in the exercise of their rights and needs that can formally do everything in their or close proximity to their place of residence. Secondly, FINA has modern electronic and communication equipment and trained human resources. She's got 5 grand and 100 employees. Thirdly, FINA already has a very wide database, and through the registry centre it can easily and quickly download the databases from other state bodies and institutions. Therefore, FINA has every assumption that it can take over those tasks as soon as possible. In order for FINA to take formal action on the implementation of the programme, it should also be legally possible, and this will be achieved just by adopting the proposed amendments to the Financial Agency Act by emergency procedure. So I suggest that this bill be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34368	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The declarative intent of this law is to bring down obstacles that red tape puts before change. Bureaucracies are always against change, bureaucracy is conservative, it always suits the state it is because it's in it, it's found channels it can operate on, it actually has power in the state. It seems to me that this law attack on these bureaucratic obstacles is actually an attack with a rod on an elephant. The elephant probably won't even notice what happened. With a brave step before the same elephant, the Justice Minister stopped when she said and guaranteed that she would settle things so that the paper can be obtained in the garters in 24 hours. That's no longer being talked about, it's obvious that Mrs. Elephant has been run over by an elephant. This is a move that in yet another way is intended to cloud the situation and give citizens nominally some rights that no one really intends to give them, no one has any intention of realising that kind of right. Because in that situation, if a citizen in one place could really get all his papers, all that power, all those very important, necessary, smart and boring jobs doing bureaucracy would become clear and clean. It's not of interest to bureaucracy. FINA gets public authority through this bill in one business that cannot be done. Public authorities in the transport of money were taken from her, transferred to banks, and traces of money can no longer be moved by a normal man. Those money trails are clouded. Whether it was an accident, whether it was intentional, is probably not the subject of today's discussion, but let's think about it. The one stop shop project is a great concept. Maybe it's a mistake, maybe it should be called all in one place so the Croats can understand what it's all about, but let them. The bigger question is why, why, and where to conduct those stop shops. It is implemented in those countries where the state bureaucracy, the state administration does not work or works poorly and/or slowly. Now why is that? Well probably because the state administration cannot be baptized because in such a weak and/or slow treatment of corruption blooms, the nepotism we have already heard today, blooms and partocracies. You get that parties, I won't tell the party, they can give their obedient officers orders, and no one else can. So another state or para-state institution is authorised by legislation, obliging, in part, to do a job that the state does not do or does a job that the state does badly. In addition to the fact that FINA will work most likely and charge. So FINA practically gets a monopoly on work or at least on the obligation of state authorities to respond quickly to citizens' demands. Because when a citizen comes to pick up that same paper in the garter, it takes two, three, four, or how many years. Obviously, the bill promoter intends to create a situation where the FINA paper from the garnery is really going to get it in 24 hours as the minister put it, which is great. However, it would be more rational, and it would be more marketable for a citizen to do so on his own as quickly as possible or through someone else, without hiring family, party, friendly, corrupt, and similar relationships. That's not the case today. I am convinced that the procedure of this law will actually slow down, not speed up, but slow down because it will give an alibi to those who do not do their job, or do it badly, there is another step that is guilty so we are not all to blame. I'm afraid that instead of one stop shop when we already speak English, it'll become stop in the shop, or Half stop shop or whatever you want a combination. For example, in Article 4b, point (b) is replaced by the following: FINA can do exactly liberally what it wants, so it will do that part of the job for which it has personnel, technical, and I don't know what other opportunities. The other part of the business will not, which the FINA as a market-oriented organisation will do will do those jobs that are paid to it, the other of course will not and the entrepreneur will not have any of that again. In this regard, I have made an amendment that I suggest that, in addition to the powers of FINA, it is also obliged to qualify for all the tasks within that concept of One Stop Shop that is otherwise introduced because the state does not do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34370	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Piploic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34371	Well, I would like to correct Mr Vuljanić's incorrect claim that he ran over Mrs. Slovenian Minister, your misfortune and others who think so, she is alive and well, she is currently in Vukovar at a session of the Croatian Government, and the elephant is still in the zoo, and no one has reported that he has escaped. I know that many would like to see this happen to the Minister, especially because many people have become sick, let us remember Zagreb's Gruntovnica and 300 thousand cases that have been solved and have not been sent away. Mrs. Secretary, her ministry can't handle everything they've done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34372	Correction of the incorrect quote Velimir Dances please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34373	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Vuljanić who said FINA gets public powers that it cannot perform it is simply incorrect because either it is either because he has not finished reading the Law and the meaning of this law or maliciously but it is clear that the concept of the stop shop is a major project which, because of its complexity, will be able to be realized through a series of small meaningful projects. This is the beginning and I said in my presentation it's about entrepreneurs and it's about starting companies. It's a start. In the next three years it will be possible to talk about what you are talking about today, with it already clear today in any case, I will tell you again in Čakovec and the state administration to do this job that you say she cannot do and does it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34374	Thank you. He's got a replica of Mr. Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34375	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is not only a replica to Mr Vuljanić, perhaps the other part that they spoke critically, we may not all understand or see in the same way the same way but I say I do not see a commitment here, but the possibility that the state is setting up one stop shop agency gives users. And an additional matter only to Mr Vuljanic, and regarding this elephant who allegedly ran over the justice minister, related to the construction of the garter. I would remind him that in Karlovac SDP, HSS and the party of Mr Vuljanić HSS, HNS who exercise authority, almost every week at the conference, it is said that Gruntovnica in Karlovac will not be 24 hours, but on the same day, they will be able to issue land-book excerpts, so now it is not clear who is not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34376	Answer to the replica Mr. Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am convinced that the grunting plant will computerise, digitise and become the way it should become both in Karlovac and Gospić and in Rijeka, and everywhere but it is not today. Mrs. Secretary promised that she would do it right away she didn't have to promise, it was clear she couldn't do it. As far as obligations and possibilities are concerned, this Law gives FINI the opportunity to do a certain job, I personally believe that FINA should also be given the obligation to do the job if it already gets public authority to do the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34378	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34379	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched One stop shop with the aim of enabling users of state administration services to exercise their rights and needs in one place, without necessarily knowing the competence of the organisational structure of individual bodies of the state administration. The concept itself comes from the assumption that state administration bodies must provide services to business entities and also to citizens in a simple, quick manner, without unnecessary costs, without multiple supply of one and the same paper in one place. The primary objective of this process and business is to promote faster economic development, and for this purpose to achieve crafts, to establish small, medium, commercial and generally faster exercise of the rights and interests of individuals in front of state administration authorities and local self-government bodies. It has already been said here that these amendments to the law will certainly not bring spectacular changes but I am convinced that it is worth a try. Perhaps the greatest limiting factor in a quality step will be the state of our state administration which I do not think is sufficiently informatively equipped, is not sufficiently networked, and I do not think that the motivation of civil servants and tenants is also as it should be, therefore, the most possible brake and barrier to the quality of doing this job. In the analysis and decision-making that body at the state level could do the highest quality of these tasks, I think there was a correct conclusion that it could be FINA. Because it's about jobs that are, by their nature, the most related to the jobs that the financial agency has done so far. That FINA was the most impoverished institution I think we were all able to find that out and when we discussed a report about FINA's 2003 business where we saw that she was doing positive business, and the profit if I didn't cheat in 2003 was over 100 million kuna. It has 187 business units in all of Croatia, so it's networked from north to south, from east to west. It employs over 5,000 persons of which a large number of high professional staff and therefore has information network and equipment that can meet these needs that I was talking about. And here I repeat again, and it seems to me that there are the biggest struggles between one side and the other here in the assembly. What FINA would do as part of the stop shop program is not an obligation, neither for entrepreneurs, founders of a company, nor for a craftsman, nor for a natural person of an individual. He is offered that these services can be obtained in the FINA, and his will is well-willed, the right to decide that his needs will be met in the way he has done so far, or that he will entrust the FINA with a certain fee. Once again I say, I think it's worth a try, I think it's worth a try. Some people really aren't able to do what others can. So let's give the taks a chance, open that chance with this law and believe we'll make that step. It has also been said here that there are environments, where quality of these services can be obtained so far. I agree. There are excellent examples and cities and municipalities, where at the entrepreneurship center, where a certain unit of local or regional self-government is provided to citizens with such help, God forbid that such environments are even more, but where there is no, I think that this law allows the FINA to be at the service of citizens. Afterwards, of course, the Government will regulate, by means of a regulation or by additional sublaws, the exact part of the work that the FINA could do. And that is why I would like to say that the Financial Agency Act is complemented in a proposed way, that is to say, that this proposal is being adopted before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34380	Thank you. The first replica of the respected representative, Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34381	Thank you very much. The Honorable Mr. President of Replication has caused me this previous exposure. In fact, I don't know if there's any of those spectacular announcements about how we're going to deal with all kinds of problems with those stops, how the entrepreneur can use all the functions in one place, or if we're actually left with these amendments to the law and the intentions that would be further implemented, on some small operational indications that something might be better, so that instead of going to the Trade Court, we can raise company registrations in FINA and the like. We expected in the HSS that precisely those stop shop would focus on further strengthening small companies, not only to make it easier for them to start, but how to survive the first year. That the state will be involved in this system in a way that solves both greater and greater indifference. We expected that there would finally be an improvement in credit lines so that those who started the job could continue better. Generally known to be the hardest to survive in the first year. So it's not just the goal of allowing an entrepreneur to create a more simple company, but to do quality work, to solve employment for himself, possibly for his family and others. It is obvious that out of the great announcements, spectacular expectations now through reading this bill and through the discussion we hear, we can only hope for smaller, better operational steps. I don't think it was actually a goal that was announced three times by the establishment of one stop shop and, of course, three times cancelled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34382	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34383	I must remind Mr. Pecek that we are currently discussing amendments and additions to the Financial Agency Act within which there is only one segment of what he was talking about, so this is the problem of establishing one stop shop agency. Is there anything left of the promise? Of course there's nothing left. Among other things, what Mr. Hebrang's former vice-president was in his replica. But the possibility and way of helping small companies, solving the problem of liquidity lending and credit lines are not something that gets into the problem of work of FINA right here, but of course it will be regulated by other laws and then we will discuss the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34384	Thank you. Another replica, Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34385	Thank you, Mr. President. My esteemed colleague Jelkovac was talking about the entrepreneurship obligations I don't know about, but it's not about that, it's about replacing thesis. An entrepreneur is not obliged to do anything. An entrepreneur pays taxes and the state is obliged to make him. Therefore, the State is obliged to deliver all documents it requires as soon as possible. If this Act is adopted, it is mandatory to deliver all of the documents that he requests and which FINA can collect as soon as possible. So, it's not about the obligation of entrepreneurs, what kind of man can have obligations if he wants to start a job? He is only obliged to comply with the legal requirements, and the state is obliged to provide him with infrastructure and to agree all the paperwork that he can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34386	Replication response, distinguished representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34387	I don't know if Mr. Vuljanic was outside when I was arguing or being here. But I was saying exactly the opposite of what he was just replicating to me. I was talking about the possibility. Thus, this gives the possibility, not the obligation of the entrepreneur to use the FINA services within the stop shop.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34388	Thank you. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34389	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few words, even though I am actually in doubt how to evaluate the proposed law, because at the very least I have to say it causes questionable or ambitious feelings and thinking. In fact, I would not deny the good will and intention expressed in what can be recognised as the intention of this Law, and that is to be simplified to simplify or facilitate the life of entrepreneurs or future entrepreneurs in the registration of companies. Any reasonable person would say, that's the kind of thing to support. For a little while, we heard the truth, and the former vice president of the government in charge of the economy, that the story that we are easily declaring here with the story of the stop shop is actually not a story about the stop shop, but at the very least, or in the best case, some kind of left or twelve stop shop, if it is true that it takes 21 steps in the company registration, and that the proposed solutions offered for FINA will solve 9 such steps. But that's better, better 9, better 12 than 21. But I’m not sure what can be read as an intention to really hit the goal. I'm afraid he doesn't even see what we want. Maybe it's clearer that we won't, and in that sense there's a certain excellent consensus, that we're not going to be in the current situation, that we're not going to be corrupt, that we're not going to be bureaucratic passion that we're not going to be a mess. I think there's a general consensus about it, but actually, what we want is not sure. And instead of the government offering us what, in the light of this article, 4b says or writes with a big "P" when it comes to the program saying that "one stop shop" is a complex program with a capital letter that will be gradually realized, I wish we had seen. I was wondering if a program like that with a big "P" existed at all. If where this programme is published, which these systematic solutions are offered because it seems to me that there is too little ambition to go with and that this too little ambition can indeed become as someone has said to the alibi that something serious is not being done to strengthen entrepreneurship, in creating a positive entrepreneurship environment that we do not have in Croatia, a team more and a team before I know that the former government has left to the new government a PAL program of the World Bank which, we do not know for a better solution, in a system, has solved the problems of removing barriers between different segments of the state administration and other institutions, that we have also had that fijas study which we can now express regret why we did not implement it in the mandate of our government. Apparently, the resistance was too great and then and now, if we really want to hit the target that we've shown and declared in this law. It would not be good for us to sow even the slightest illusion that we will solve a problem that is simply being dealt with in a palitative way but must be dealt with systematically, that we will solve the problem if we do not recognise that, without our colleagues warning, without a thorough reform of the state administration, without a thorough reform of the judiciary, without the definitive fixing of the catastras, land books, etc. The problem we would like to address is not possible. So the question would be, if this is really an alibi, if this is an alibi of the law, and we'll soon know if it happens next year that in this assembly we're talking about a similar topic and we're wondering why things aren't going to go well, and then we're going to blame it on FINA and say that, we voted in the Parliament law that we gave them powers, we defined her duties and they didn't do it, or we're going to say that we were wrong as Government because we didn't follow it, or this is an excuse that we don't have to do much harder, bigger, more important steps. We don't even know what it's actually going to do here. The other thing I want to say when it comes to choosing FINA is I agree with the speakers who say that FINA is absolutely similar to the agency for doing the jobs that are being designated here. I absolutely support the austorsing model, everything the state administration shouldn't do, doesn't have to do it and shouldn't do it. Let someone else do it, but it must be known what it is that only the state administration can do and what the state administration cannot free itself of as its obligations. But just as I think of FINA as a similar agency for doing these jobs, I want to make it clear, perhaps here and now before these local elections, that we have no illusions that local units, local self-government, will find ways to help entrepreneurs and overcome obstacles not only to company registration but also to say much more complex or equally complex obstacles that stand in the way of entrepreneurs to realize their entrepreneurial ventures. So, I would say that if this law is followed by the system and if it really is not an alibi, not to do everything that has to be done if we want to get out of one state that is really on the threshold of the 21st century at the threshold of entry into the European Union is not allowed in such an important sector as the economy, development, entrepreneurship and everything that it allows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34390	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34391	Correcting the alleged respected colleague Vidovic who said that it is better 11 or 12 or 9 steps instead of 27 so far. Well, no, so far there have been nine necessary steps and I said in this debate on behalf of the club now there will be three instead of those nine and no 27 and now 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34392	And the second correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34393	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Vidovic, said the government is showing too little ambition in terms of developing the economy and in terms of amending and supplementing the law that is ahead of us. That's just not true. I believe that the government represents a concept of sustainable development and even development of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, that these changes that are ahead of us are only one part of the government's policy on the economy and I would certainly add that, with these changes, I would highlight working zones and other encouraging measures as one of the global economic policies of the Government that will deliver results on both short and longer term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34394	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34395	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! The truth is, my colleague Pacek said that there were great public announcements about spectacular changes and here's when the media got this bill we already had opportunities to read in the paper that citizens have nothing to hope for. For what? Because it is difficult at all by law or by any law, or by amendments to the law, and with only five articles, it is essentially what has been bothering us in these areas in the Republic of Croatia for decades, how to get to a rapid effective administration. And just as counterpart Vidovic says that "one stop shop" is what the government says is a complex programme then it was logical to see one program first so this would be some sort of hint in that program and then later the programme of measures and specifications that everything needs to be done. So this way, with one mini shift, we kill the maxes, we pick the dust in people's eyes. And why, basically, everyone said they agree with a good idea, and that's true, but by passing these laws, we embarrass ourselves as legislators in advance, knowing that from the application of that law there will be absolutely nothing. It is as if we wrote in the law that everyone is obliged, each official or any service in the State Administration to meet the request within 24 hours or even 30 days when it is not possible. And why isn't it? For many complex questions and reasons. And that's why it seems to me that maybe Vlad was a good guideline, too, just ordered a fijas study that really started to apply but that wasn't applied until the end. I remember well exactly, but what it is, something was filled out from Fias's study, which is that the reduced administrative fees are 50%, which is one concrete step. However, bad news from the government is that administrative, not only administrative, but even court fees that I say were reduced a few years ago by 50% will rise again because this will suppress the general demands of someone. I think it's in direct contrast to the openness of state institutions and justice to citizens. Because we can see that even in the 1990s, such an attempt did not bear fruit. However, the protection of the poorest has been denied without reducing the number of cases. As much as possible. If we are also looking at nomotechnically what would this specifically mean, it is said that the agency is authorised to provide services, but is not seen again what services are involved? In this regard, Article 4d states that these jobs will therefore be determined by the Government in part. This is a bad solution, and I repeat, it was necessary to taxively comply with the principle of legality to see whose rights and obligations are laid down by law. There are no rights and obligations here but it is authorised by FIN to provide certain services, and it does not have to, because, in the words of Article 4b, it says that FINA is obliged to accept the activities for which it has secured professional, technical and other assumptions. So FINA can say at any moment that it has no professional or technical or other assumptions and the citizen will therefore lose in that quest only one more station. So this is just one of the stations, not one stop shop. We've already seen what a stop shop would be. So the citizen gets a certain favor in one place. It's hard to imagine one place where he could get all the services. Then, basically, the state administration might be unnecessary. She'd be just a register of individual data that only they would distribute here are specifically FINAs. So "one stop shop" would be that the state administration would specifically be one department that issues one specific permit to carry out all other tasks or obtains by official duty all the information necessary for the issue of that authorisation. Why didn't we go that way? That would be a concrete solution. A specific office that issues a building permit, it does everything for a citizen, so it can't do the project for it, but logically all those records that the state has that it is precisely the responsibility of that administration to collect so either the queen of the born or the queen of the dead or the extract from the cataster or the extract from the land. Now that would be "one stop shop". So let there be 50 "one stop shops" but for each specific area. And that's the only way to go. Of course, it is a great, great burden for the officers themselves and the tenants who practically become active who are not leaving, who are then no longer just in their room regardless of the networking of the data is necessarily required to go either to the cataster or to the landowner. But then it's the right thing to do. Well, then let's let some kind of permit cost more than that. Because the greatest loss is just a waste of time. And often, not to honor but always that waste of time isn't printed with a smaller spending of money than a waste of time. Not only the lost profit but also the payment of each of the individual permits. Therefore, the legal possibility of the Financial Agency to refuse jobs does not therefore mean a legal obligation, so it is also a wonder why we bring this into the form of the law. It would be wrong to create an illusion with a citizen because it quickly turns out that none of this has anything to do with it. It's a hard, complex job that all governments have been struggling so far and there is no need to torture. So the common job is we all always say that the state administration is inefficient, that it's not professional, that it's not well-trained. You should make that one program. I think that Fijas's study is a good basis, which, in particular, should be done by the programme of measures to individual ministries, i.e. in the state administration. My proposal here is to start with this if the one who issues the permits then it's no more logical that it's precisely the one that's obliged to obtain all the information that the state takes care of. Not to send a citizen from one counter to another, from one institution to another and pay for all that. And with this, I say nothing is solved. Try to say that FINA, or the very possibility given to this Financial Agency, but ultimately the Financial Agency, if it accepts here to do a particular job, it will have to request, for example, a cadastra extract from a cadastrian or one catastrian operat. She told the citizen to come in 15 days, in a month, but that same FINA is waiting just like the citizen. State, you might think it's an institution, a state's attorney's office that requires data, so it's just to go into criminal proceedings or assess whether it has the elements that require data from the state administration, from one particular ministry. He doesn't get them. We've seen this in reports that keep repeating from year to year. So the state itself does not respect another state body. And that's our problem. And there are no sanctions. And then exactly on the basis of Fias's study, so in that one desire to sanction and the one who doesn't respect the deadlines doesn't mean anything again. I also well remember the mandatory, instructions and regulations according to courts or land, land-booking department that they are obliged to issue a land-book excerpt within 15 days. And he's left a dead letter on the paper. It really applies where assumptions were made and where there were fewer problems, where problems were solved. Therefore, it would not count on the committee of officials to fix this in 15 days instead of a month, and there is no problem under that Regulation. But where the big problems are, it's a dead letter on paper. That's why it's almost time to start over. I repeat the only solution would be the true stop shop one who issues the licence he is obliged to obtain all the information on which that permit is issued and, in fact, the state shall keep them on official duty. If we didn't get caught up in it, which is the most logical thing, then this whole thing is illusory. Indeed throwing dust into the eyes because this stop shop where it is spoken in or the government often appears that exactly this bill is the realisation of one stop shop, is not. It's not. This is just one of the stations, possibly existing on the crossroad of each of our citizens asking for a permit or an opinion from the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34396	Thank you very much. We're going to a five-minute individual club debate. He's got three clubs. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues I believe that entrepreneurs will remain disappointed after this proposal to amend the law which is actually the beginning of the project "one stop shop" and after the debate in the Assembly we will probably be disappointed too because it seems that we have come to terms with the fact that from spectacular shifts and help entrepreneurship there is nothing. Eventually we will do something operational to make it easier to get paper in one place, and strategically nothing will happen because the entrepreneur will actually continue to walk a lot and depend heavily on the state administration. The state will communicate well, better quality with computer equipment through FINA, but what is wrong with this bill is absolutely certain that the entrepreneur and the one who wants to be completely out of the system. I believe this law is actually for a second reading. He must have much more ambition. He must first, much more resolve strategic issues. But what is most important in this Law we must enable the entrepreneur to use the system. It's completely unclear to me, and probably to you, which is why an entrepreneur couldn't check the name of a company on his own from his home computer system if he wanted to report it so he wouldn't be specific by name. Which is why he could not make his own electronic application to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance or Pension Insurance, which is why he could not conclude with his computer a representation contract that Finna would do all this for him. Which is why he could not alone report his company to the Republic Bureau of Statistics. It's unclear to me, I believe it's unclear to the proposer. But it is absolutely certain that we marginalized the entrepreneurs and through these amendments to the law we gave one new importance to the state administration and gave one new meaning to Finn. Of course there will be no advisory functions, only administrative matters will be able to be done in Fine is the fundamental question of how to make a quality business, the second fundamental question of how to stay on the market, the third fundamental question of how to develop if someone wants to be an entrepreneur. Here, actually, Finna is just maybe going to compensate for an inefficient state, one stop shop should have a much bigger responsibility than just to be taken over by Finn. I'm holding here a programme of realisation of the small economy of the former Government of the Republic of Croatia in that program we had four credit lines, the realization in three and a half years was 5 billion kuna. We had 26 other projects from the entrepreneurship zone in the incubator to help craftsmen and so on. You know what happened last year, not a single approved corporate loan, the money for the entrepreneurship zone came for Christmas last year and had to be spent last year. It had to be done to all the cities and municipalities that got it. In fact, that stop shop called the state and which should be open and efficient according to entrepreneurship last year had a closed door. I don't think he's got them this year. We're not gonna be able to move it. What we should also be thinking here in Parliament and beyond is a good example from Germany I just saw on the news yesterday, where the two strongest parties in Germany, regardless of their political specificity, have agreed on how they will try to change huge unemployment in Germany. I believe that we could and should reach a consensus on this issue in Croatia, so that we can make one stop shop that will really be in the function of entrepreneurship that is dealing with strategic matters and that will change the support of the entrepreneur in the function of further exports and in the function of new employment. We can do it, of course, but if we want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34398	Thank you. HSP's respected representative, Pero Kovacevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34399	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. It's about co-workers. We are pleased that this debate was held today, namely this debate pointed to all the problems that stand in the way of Croatian citizens who want to become entrepreneurs. The problem of bureaucratic barriers, corruption, nepotism and bribes in this area is current until the establishment of the Croatian state, unfortunately little has been done on it. And that is why I am pleading for a full consensus of all parties in the Croatian Parliament, that we are finally starting to solve this problem but effectively. And to establish one system that will give results and according to us rights means it is necessary to establish such a unique and effective system that will have the following factors of the Croatian citizen who wants to be entrepreneurs, or those who already are. An agency that on behalf of the state will do all that to them, let them. Programmes that will be automatically tied into this entire chain that include both the qualifications, requalification, training and all that is necessary. Banks but primarily Croatian banks that will participate, and then we come to entrepreneurship either in the field of tourism were in the area of agriculture, and in all other areas. The one stop shop program as presented since 2003 contains problems all. But the one stop shop program will not be launched with these amendments and additions to the law, or we'll do only one small step best. Little steppe, in the sense of at least doing something nice, but without rounding up the system in this way that I've put out, we're not going to move much forward. It'll still be that part. Because you know for yourself that neither the part of the work of Finna is prescribed in this area nor how it will work in any way, and the worst part is I say the provision that gives discretionary right to say that some of the professional or other reasons will not be able to carry out. So we'll only support in this work that it's a steppe but we're aware that we haven't solved anything, we're just going into a process that's still difficult and the system hasn't yet been set up. And only in the end because I failed to respond in the debate to the esteemed colleague Mršić, where I highlighted his problems in the county area, he praised that a wonderful and wonderful situation means Koprivnica Cruise. He's not here. He'd like us to answer the case of Allen Platinum, who spoke to him too, Ivan Ivancan, Vinko Shostarec. Zdenka Ivandija and others who have tried to enter the appropriate programs for years to this day have not received answers. Although he calls it tourism, it's his problem. I can only tell him that within a year as a representative of the Croatian party of rights who regularly holds office days across 10 thousand kilometers I had 32 office days, received over 800 citizens. All your gas, your car, unlike him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34400	Thank you. And a respected representative, Velimir Plesa, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34401	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The one stop shop program is a major project by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will only be realised through a series of smaller meaningful projects because of its complexity. Those stop shops for certain areas of services provided by the authorities and should provide citizens and business entities. One of the services should be implemented as soon as possible in order to check the concept and run the whole process of implementing other services. And that's the purpose and task of this law. Because for the first service it was chosen to establish a limited liability company. And just for the sake of painting, now I'm going to try to show how it's taken so far to do nine steps, nine physical steps at nine different places to go to do jobs for that job. And the implementation of that program will require three of them. I also said that in the discussion on behalf of the club that it is not literally translated one stop shop means one stop, but that it will be necessary to take three steps. So today, the process of opening a company starts with a commercial court checking the company's name. It is necessary to go there, then go to the lawyer or the public notary for the composition of the power of attorneys, the composition of the statement that the member has no debt with the basis of taxes and other fees to the Republic of Croatia and so on. So afterwards, it goes to a bank where the underlying capital is paid into the passing account of payment of court fees for the payment of advertising costs. Then it goes to the tax administration after going out to confirm that the founders do not have outstanding obligations based on the tax. Then go to the Trade Court, the court register, submit applications along with all contributions to the reception office. So then the person making the stamp has to make the seal of the company necessary for the application of the State Statistics Office. So then the State Institute for Statistics must be submitted because it is only in Zagreb that it must travel from Dubrovnik to Zagreb or must be sent by post, and then it goes about 2 to 3 weeks. Then the bank is the conclusion of a transaction account contract and is eventually the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute where the company's registration is for the sake of records and the creation of a pre-condition for employment. These changes to the law would make, this business process look like this. The FINA would have made an insight into the Trade Court, the court register, the company's name check was carried out pairing two bases, it's already over, it's done. Information on the process of opening up a company. Then it's a second step we can't avoid, it's a public notary, and then it's back to the FINA where there's a payment of core capital. And now they're getting lost, no more IRS because there's no shop, the Court Register Act, article 41a, changes. Then it is the third step still remaining, it is that Trade Court where applications are submitted together with all contributions and then there is no longer a person who makes the stamp, because upon obtaining a solution no longer needs to be made, because it is no longer required and necessary for the application of the State Department for Statistics but is used in payment traffic. The national statistical office no longer has to send this as an automatic entry into the Register of the Commercial Society is notified of the classification of the business entity. The bank is possible now not to go to the bank, but to do it at the FINA. And the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that so far needed to deliver this specifically to them is being carried out in the FINA, it is a counter to the counter. I think that this is the reason enough for what the legislator and this proposal wanted to do, which is that this project is being launched and that should be completed in the next three years when it will provide a total of 20 services. And one service is provided on this occasion, which is a service when opening and setting up a company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34402	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34403	I want to correct the assumption that actually the future entrepreneur wouldn't be mistaken. The future entrepreneur will still have to go to the public notary. The future entrepreneur will still have to go to the Trade Court alone. He'll still have to come to FINA to lay down his core capital. The future entrepreneur will still have to make his own stamp. The future entrepreneur will still have to sign the opening of his jury account. The future entrepreneur will still have to bring names and last names and other documents of persons to be registered through the FINA to the Pension Insurance and Health Insurance Office, etc. So now they're going to do it in one place, but they're going to have to come five to six times again. It's a little promotion, but it's not a strategic change.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34404	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want a final review? State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This long-standing debate over three articles of the law has shown the concern of all economic promoters in Croatia and this is positive for today's debate. However, many have taken the opportunity to accuse the state administration of being corrupt, incompetent, unprofessional. I have to say that the state administration isn't perfect, it can always be better and it'll be better, but it's not as bad as it wants to be for citizens, for those who listen to us and look at the impression. The continued work in the equipment of the state administration, in raising the quality of the professional staff, results. I'll say just for example the list of voters. You can even text your message to check if you are listed, or when there were elections where your polling place is, you would be back in half a minute from the operator where you have the polling place. There are a number of databases that are placed on the web pages. So any citizen can access certain data, of course those who are not protected by the secrecy of the data. A number of convictions from the state queens are received in a minute. As soon as you get to the counter, ask for your information about the queen of the born, the dead, the married, everything you need. He finds you in the records and gives you a print order and you get it in a minute. But it can always be better, we make great efforts to make it better, to raise all state databases digitally and then to be available to citizens. In terms of this law and program, the stop shop, I find it hard to say that word, but here is how hard we try we couldn't find a Croatian replacement for what it contains is one program. It's a program that has people, that has resources, that has technology and that has elaborate business mechanisms. The program is presented to the government, presented to the public. Parliament is a legislative body. We have proposed amendments to the law that will allow FINA to implement this programme. And that's the meaning of this law. The program was elaborated, it existed, it was tested, it worked, but FINA had no legal authority to implement this programme and therefore we proposed this law. And since this programme has been prepared for longer, it could start working tomorrow or when this law comes into force. We suggest that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34406	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34407	Thank you very much. Mr. Palaric said we accused the state. No, I don't. We weren't accusing the state, we were criticizing it for ineffectiveness. And the fact is that the state is inefficient and it's a criticism, it's not a criticism. Only when we realize that the state is inefficient will we be able to successfully remove all those barriers that are in front of entrepreneurs who want to start a business and survive in it. It's completely unclear to me what you're talking about right now, that this project is designed in FINA and that you need to press the button and that it can actually run. And we haven't passed the law yet. So you've probably done something illegal if we haven't changed the FINA Act, and the project is already ready at the FINA. I believe that this should be discussed first in Parliament, so when the law is adopted that it can go into project operations, or I have misunderstood you. But if FINA did all this and didn't have a legal basis then something strange is happening in the state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34408	And Secretary of State Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34409	Mr. President and Your Honor. FINA didn't do anything illegal. FINA didn't provide services and she didn't ask. She was just testing. We have even changed the Rules of Procedure in a way that when we propose laws we want to examine all the effects that this law will have. We don't want to propose a law that we don't know how it's going to work. FINA wasn't in traffic, she, the law wasn't broken, but we had to make a model to see how it would simulate, test it, and then we could propose a law that, to know what we wanted to propose law and what consequences the law would have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34410	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34411	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you. It's only in the Bill's proposal that money should be provided. Therefore, money cannot be used before the law is passed. I think you and I know how this is how it works when the projects are developing and when you need to get consent in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34412	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would suggest to the Government that our Committee on Law to find a Croatian term in the final revision of this law, a Croatian expression in accordance with Croatian language standards for meaningful and content, instead of one of the rates of shop, to find an expression that will fit the Croatian language in a meaningful and meaningful way. Here you go, pal Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34413	Thank you, Mr. President. If I may say so, I suggested in the discussion the expression all in one place. It's exactly the meaning of the expression of the stop shop, that they have people who suggest the final text of it in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34414	Thank you very much. I'm closing this debate. Final draft law supplementing the law on the financial agency. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS. Amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34416	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34417	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34418	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34419	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you. An amendment to the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34420	It is not accepted because the Government will set out by a regulation what FINA tasks it must carry out in order to strengthen its capacity and changes and additions to the Regulation will increase the scope of the FINA operations. Therefore, we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34421	Thank you. Honorable representative, Proposer Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34422	Thank you, Mr. President. The objective of the amendment was for FINA to get not only the guidance to do it but also some obligation to actually do the job. This kind of thing turns out to be purely liberal, it can be, it can be, and it can't be. And FINA's just been given the authority not to do anything if she thinks she can't do anything. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34423	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find that the amendment did not receive the need for the majority, that it was voted by 24 MPs, 8 abstentions and 63 against it. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that, with 74 votes for and 11 abstentions and 12 against the adoption of the Law supplementing the Financial Agency Act, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - Reports from the Mandate-Immunity Commission please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the Honorable Representative. In a row, a little short version if possible, but in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34425	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, we have a report on a request to approve the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Ljubica Lalic. At its meeting on 2 March 2005, the mandate-immunity committee received a notice from the Municipal Court in Zagreb on 23 February 2005 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that a private prosecutor, Vinko Sindičić, from Rijeka, filed a complaint against MP Ljubica Lalić of Zagreb for his crime over the honor and reputation of the slander committed under Article 200(2). Penalty law. How Ms Ljubica Lalić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs may only give effect to the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Court of Justice in Zagreb, informed the Croatian Parliament of the need to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings and the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the hearing was held, unanimously made a proposal for a decision proposing that the authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Ljubica Lalic be denied during the term of the parliamentary term of office of office for the initiation of the criminal proceedings against honor and the reputation of the slander committed under Article 200(2). The Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, on the grounds that the Commission has taken the principle that the application for the initiation of criminal proceedings for the offences of slander and insults to MPs is not taking away parliamentary immunity, and that it does not approve the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ljubica Lalic for the crime of slander, because the procedure can also be initiated after the end of Ms Lalic's term of office. The position of the Committee is that the Institute of Immunity has been established in order to protect the dignity of the duties, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings as well as any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this, could make it impossible for the representatives to act on a regular basis and affect the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34426	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34427	Next we have a report on a request to authorise the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Ivica Clem. The mandate-immunity committee also discussed at its meeting on 2 March 2005, the submission of the County Court in Vukovar, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the County State Attorney's Office in Vukovar had filed an indictment against MPs Ivica Clem on suspicion that he had committed a criminal offence against his official duty by misusing the position and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (4). Penalty law. Since Mr Ivica Klem is a representative in the Croatian Parliament, he has the immunity until the end of his parliamentary term and it is necessary to decide to initiate a criminal proceedings that only the Croatian Parliament can take and, therefore, after the debate has been held, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has unanimously proposed, i.e. to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision establishing that there are no constitutional reasons as set out in Article 75(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution approves the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivica Clem, at the request of the County Court of Vukovar, on suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence against the official duty referred to in Article 337(1) and (4). The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. The Commission therefore decided to grant the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivica Klem, against Ivica Klem, on the request of the County Court, on grounds of suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against his official duty by abuse of office and authority, because that act does not fall under criminal responsibility for which the representative is subject to the provisions of Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cannot take away immunity, but it is a criminal offence for which the Commission has taken the view that it will abolish the immunity of the representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34428	Suggest. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34429	Next we have a report on the request to authorise the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Zeljko Nenadic. Therefore, at its 11th session, the Court of Justice of the Union in the Irons informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Sisak submitted an indictment against Representative Zeljko Nenadić on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed the criminal offence of giving incorrect information referred to in Article 624(1), point 8. The Company Act. As Željko Nenadić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament, he has immunity until the end of the term of office and it is necessary for the Croatian Parliament to decide to initiate a criminal proceedings against the MPs and, therefore, the Mandate Commission has proposed to the Croatian Parliament, with a majority vote of 7 votes for and 2 abstentions, to decide which determines that there are no constitutional and legal reasons as set out in Article 75(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution approves the initiation of criminal proceedings against agent Zeljko Nenadić at the request of the Court of Justice in the Iron, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed the criminal offence of providing the incorrect information referred to in Article 624(1), paragraph 8. The Company Act. Therefore, the argument is that the Commission has decided to propose such a decision at the request of the General Court of the Irons on grounds of suspicion that the agent has committed a criminal offence to the provision of incorrect information because that act does not fall under criminal responsibility for which the agent is subject to the provisions of Article 75(2). The constitution cannot take away immunity, but it is a criminal offence for which the Committee has, therefore, opinions and proposes to the Assembly that immunity be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34430	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34431	Next we have a report on a request for a criminal case against Representative Frana Piplovic. So, the Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed the submission of the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod had filed an indictment against Representative Frana Piplovic on suspicion that he had committed a criminal offence against the freedom and rights of man and citizen by violating the right to work and other rights referred to in Article 114. Penalty law. How Mr Frano Piploić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs may only give effect to the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Municipal Court of Slavonski Brod have requested approval to launch criminal proceedings against MP Frana Piplovic. Following the discussion of the majority of votes, 7 for and 2 abstentions, the Management Board shall propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision establishing that there are no constitutional and legal reasons set out in Article 75(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the application of the Institute of Representative Immunity and within the meaning of Article 75(3). The Constitution approves the initiation of criminal proceedings against the representative Frana Piplovic at the request of the Municipal Court of Slavonski Brod for reasonable doubt that he has committed a criminal offence against the freedom and rights of man and citizen by violating the right to work and other labour rights described in Article 114. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. The reason is that the Commission has therefore decided to propose the launch of a criminal complaint against Agent Frana Piplovic, at the request of the Municipal Court of Slavonski Brod on grounds of suspicion that it has committed a criminal offence against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, violation of labour rights and other labour rights, because that act does not fall under criminal responsibility for which the representative is subject to the provisions of Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cannot take away immunity, but it is a criminal offence for which the Committee holds that the parliament is proposed to remove immunity from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34432	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34433	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, since this is a working dispute that has grown into a case, has reached the Croatian Parliament, I am responsible for the Croatian public and for those of you who need to make a decision, give information about what it is. One working dispute that came to the Croatian Parliament thanks to a single director, a political one, a judicial one, such as the mafia, was directed by counterpart Miroslav Juric, a journalist, and then returned to the intervention of Justice Minister Vesna Skara-Ozbolt, who paid the fine of 12500 kuna for him a year ago. I claim that I have no criminal responsibility in this case at all, since it is a court dispute that has 50 to 100 pages of material, so the case has been dragged in since 30 March 2000, so to this day, the court has failed to respect what my lawyer has proposed. I was ready, while I was the director to take my colleague back to work, however, there were no conditions, why? At the time when a colleague was fired for injury to work, working discipline then there was the dismissal of 8 workers as a technological surplus in RADIOBROD, they were Mladen Wagner, Anita Opačak, Mirjana Oroz, Ana Dobric, Aleksandra Primorac, Elizabeth Wright, Denis Ples, Marko Ivesic and Hrvoje Grgić. As a technological surplus, people left because a year before that a new radio station was established in Slavonski Brod "Radio Slavonia", which took away a large part of the marketing cake so that it was simply the reason for these people to leave. A colleague who wanted to return to work, could not be accepted because he had only 8 grades of elementary school, worked as a tone manipulator at Radio Ship. At the time when the court made a decision, there was a change in the systematization of the workplace, such a job is no longer available, or there is no such number of perpetrators. Radio Ship was modernised as a local radio station because we bought an automated system so that we reduced the number of employees and thus made one rationalization. In the event that a colleague should be admitted, he must be admitted, then eight other workers working on Radio Ship today would have to be fired and that means there would be a complete breakdown of the system. I'm not, I'm saying, in any case here, in violation of any of his rights, I couldn't implement a court ruling because there were no financial conditions for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34434	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking the President of the Committee for further reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34435	The next report is on a request to authorise the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Ante Djapic. At its 11th session on March 2nd, the Commission discussed the submission of a municipal court in Split, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the criminal proceedings against MP Ante Djapic were under way, because of a criminal offence against abuse of office and authority under Article 337(1) of the criminal law. How Mr Djapic is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 23 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the municipal court in Split, requested approval for a further course of criminal proceedings against Parliament's representative Ante Djapic. The mandate committee shall, by majority of votes 7 for and 1 against and 1 abstention, propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision establishing that there are no constitutional and legal reasons as set out in Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the application of the Institute of Representative Immunity and, within the meaning of Article 75(3) of the Constitution, grant approval for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Ante Djapic at the request of the Municipal Court in Split, before which the criminal proceedings are pending in connection with the criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 337(1). The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Commission has decided to grant the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Ante Djapic at the request of the Municipal Court in Split before which a criminal offence is brought on account of the offence of the position and authority because the offence does not fall under criminal responsibility for which the representative is subject to the provisions of Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cannot take away immunity. Therefore, it is a criminal offence which the Commission considers to have taken the view that it will propose the abolition of immunity to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34436	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34437	We still have a report on the request to grant the initiation of criminal proceedings against Srecko Ferenček's representative. The mandate-immunity commission also discussed at the 11th session held on 16 March 2005 the submission of the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb had submitted a draft investigative request against Representative Sretko Ferenček on suspicion that he had committed a criminal offence against his official duty by abuse of office and authority described in Article 337(1) and (4). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. How Mr. Srecko Ferenčak is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term, a decision approving the initiation of a criminal procedure can only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 23(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the County State Attorney's Office requested the abolition of parliamentary immunity to representative Sretko Ferenčak. The mandate-immunity committee shall, after the debate has been held, propose to the Croatian Assembly, with a majority vote of 5 for and 1 abstention, a decision establishing that there are no constitutional and legal reasons as set out in Article 75(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution approves the initiation of criminal proceedings against Srecko Ferenček's representative at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, on the grounds of reasonable doubt that he has committed a criminal offence against his official duty by abuse of office and authority described in Article 337(1) and (4). For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Penalty law. Therefore, the argument is that the Commission has decided to grant the initiation of a criminal proceedings against a representative of Ferencek, at the request of the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, on the grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed those crimes. For those parts fall under criminal responsibility for which the agent is subject in accordance with the provisions of Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cannot take away immunity. It is already a matter of criminal acts for which the commission has taken the view that it will propose to the Croatian Assembly the abolition of immunity for a single representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34438	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And we will also report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission: First of all, in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am voting on the Proposal for a decision which, during the term of the parliamentary term, is denied approval to launch a criminal proceedings against MP Ljubica Lalic. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that with 86 votes for, 8 abstentions and one against the proposed decision. What? Now we'll see about this. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Secondly, I am voting on the same report by, this committee according to the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivica Clem. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that with 79 votes for, 14 abstentions and 3 against the proposed decision. Third, I am voting on a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission to grant approval for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Zeljko Nenadić. Please engage. He can vote. The result? I find the proposed decision has been made with 76 votes for, 17 abstentions and 3 against. The following is the same in line with the Commission's proposal, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to be given at, which is approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Frana Piplovic. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I note that the proposed decision was taken by 68 votes to 21 abstentions and 5 against. In accordance with the same proposal of the same Commission, I am voting on the proposal for a decision approving the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Ante Djapic. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that with 73 votes for, 18 abstentions and 5 against the proposed decision. And I am also giving the vote to the Mandate Decision, the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to grant approval for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Srecko Ferenček's representative. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that the proposed decision was taken by 82 votes to 11 abstentions and 3 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please, we have completed this part of the vote. Here you go. The Honorable Vice-President Mate Arlovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34440	Mr. President, I must intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. It seems to me that there are reasonable reasons to warn that we did not seem to have enough votes to vote on the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the financial agency. Since the Constitution in Article 82 explicitly states, I quote, "the escalators (organic laws) which discusses the Constitution established human rights and fundamental freedoms, the electoral system, the structure, the work of the state bodies, and the structure and part-rounding of local self-government..." and so on, are brought by a supple majority of votes. The Fina Agency is a state body established by a special law and in this respect there is a reasonable doubt that we have not also secured formal constitutionality. Well, it's a phonogram so we can take care of it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34441	Thank you, dear fellow Vice President. If that's the case, then the Constitutional Court will bring it down as an unconstitutional law. If the procedure is initiated. Here you go, pal Drandić. I'm sorry about the robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34442	Your Honor, Mr. President, I voted against the conclusion that you have proposed within the meaning of the law on the bill on the compensation of beneficiaries of pensions. And it turns out I'm restrained. There's something wrong with this. Whether to vote again or not, I don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34443	It's probably a question of pressing the taster.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34444	There was a double vote and it showed up, another time it appeared to be abstention. Something wrong with whether we should repeat it or let my voice be recorded...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34445	We'll check on the colleague later and see if that had an impact on the result of the vote. There was no pa. Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the proposal to amend and supplement the laws on the areas of cities, municipalities and counties. The MPs know in what order they will speak. We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 264. The Proposer is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and local and regional self-government. You received the reports at the session. I would like the Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, Mr. Antun Palaric, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34447	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia has been amended 15 times so far. Over the past year, there have been three draft laws that were intended to change the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia. The government has opposed this, but not in a way that has rejected citizens' initiatives, but has said it opposes establishing new municipalities in the last year's term of office of representative bodies. Therefore, all these initiatives will be considered when making the new text of the law, because indeed after 15 amendments and these, these three rejected initiatives would be completely non-transparent. We have worked this Law in a way that to the greatest extent possible we have respected the will of citizens who wanted a unit of local self-government to be established in their area or to change the regionality of a particular settlement. Because they obviously weren't satisfied with their position in the area of the local self-government unit. During the debate on committees, the question was raised whether or not the Government was allowed to propose the law on its own, and without previously asking the representative body where the citizens who want to form a new unit are now located. This issue was also opened by a poor interpretation of the current legislative provision under which the establishment initiative should first be asked by citizens for the opinion of the representative body, and at the arrival of the representative body, it was necessary to request the citizens' opinion. We believe that the government does not commit the opinion of the representative body, it is good to have it, it is good to have the representative body react. But we don't want intermediaries between citizens and the government and that someone could block this house from passing laws against the will of the citizens who suggest it. This Law provides for the establishment of new municipalities, 9 new municipalities. A change in the name of the settlement where there really has been a change of settlements, a erasure of settlements that have ceased to exist as independent settlements and the introduction of new settlements that were created in the meantime as independent settlements. This law needs to be passed in order to carry out local elections. So we suggest that he adopt himself. Our proposal was to go through an emergency procedure. The Constitutional Committee has proposed a discussion in two readings. As the Parliament decides, we will obey it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34448	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Human Rights. Is there anyone on behalf of the board? No one's answering on behalf of the Committee. Okay. Then we'll discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, Zdenko Antešić is the first member of the team. Here you go. What? It's okay, buddy. I asked if anyone was answering on behalf of the board, so we didn't see you answer. It's all right, you can. Here's the Committee on Human Rights, my colleague, Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34449	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia at the 18th session held on 16 March 2005, with the Final Proposal for a Law. This Committee considered this Law as an interested working body. In the debate, it was concluded that the bill did not fall into the essence of the problems that arise in relation to the territorial structure of the local and regional regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. It is pointed out that the proposed Law actually offers only minor adjustments to the territorial structure in relation to the existing situation, less regional changes, the accession or the separation of specific, individual settlements and the establishment of new municipalities, which could be achieved by amending and supplementing the existing law. It was said that the promoter did not give an explanation of the proposed territorial changes, and I would add now that he did not give a reason why some, some of the changes that were in there, such as for Kukuljanovo municipality at the last minute, fell out of the list. Neither does the justification for not accepting certain requirements for territorial changes. So it remains unclear what criteria were handled in making decisions? It is pointed out that the Republic of Croatia already has enough experience with the existing territorial organisation of units of local and regional self-government, and that a full analysis of previous experiences should be carried out and then proposed a more functional, rational system of local and regional self-government, which assumes that clear and comprehensive criteria should be established on the basis of which a particular area can obtain the status of the municipality or city. In the absence of such criteria, we are witnessing constant requirements for the formation of new municipalities. This does not take into account the sustainability of systems that create a number of small municipalities, of only a few hundred inhabitants who have no economic perspective and whose budget cannot address any significant problem of the local population. As regards the names of settlements and individual units of local self-government, it has been pointed out that in the past there have been numerous changes that have been made without consulting or respecting the opinion of the domicile population as well as without respecting the tradition of cultural heritage in the area of change. What is the obligation both under domestic law and by international documents that are governed by these issues. Following the debate, the board reached the next conclusion by a majority of five votes in favour and four abstentions. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the following amendment. This amendment is very important because it enters the problem of the bilingual name of municipalities and cities. Article 1 adds a new paragraph 2 which reads as follows: "The name of the county, city, municipalities and settlements where the statute requires equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities in accordance with the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia is written in the Croatian language and Latin letter and language and letter of the national minority." Because so far, the law has not been recited. This is important because so far the Constitutional Law and this law have not been respected. Explanation. The proposed addition of the text of the final draft law is in line with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities guaranteed by the right to bilingual and multilingual writing of the title of the place. Two, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a full analysis of the system of local and regional self-government and the Croatian Parliament to propose a legislative reform in the area, starting with proposals and opinions presented in the parliamentary debate on these issues. Thank you very much. It's a success that I read without my glasses because I didn't want to go back. Everyone's protesting that I came to speak and that they won't... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34450	Thank you very much, colleague. And congratulations on that success. We can move on. Comrade Antesic, come in! SDP club, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34451	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! The proposed legislative proposal sets out some settlements from existing cities and municipalities and forms some new municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in Articles 30, 31 and 32 of the proposed law prescribes a different procedure compared to existing legislation when establishing new municipalities. Without disputing the legitimacy of citizens in the desire to exercise the right to local self-government, this bill is legally invalid, the Constitution and the law on areas of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are contrary. In particular, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes that citizens are guaranteed the right to local and regional self-government as long as the provisions of Articles 133 and 2 are laid down in the terms of the units of local self-government of municipalities and cities, as well as the areas of units of the district or regional self-government of the county are laid down in the manner prescribed by law. I repeat, therefore, in the manner prescribed by law. I would like to remind you that the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia provides for a procedure for the establishment of new units of local self-government so that Article 30(1) provides that the change in the area or headquarters of the local self-government unit and the establishment of new units of local self-government may be proposed by the representative body of the unit or one third of the citizens resident in the area for which the change is sought, i.e. in the field of units of local self-government. The provisions of Article 30(2) of the same law provide that, if the applicant is a representative body, it is required to obtain the opinion of the citizens from the areas for which the change is sought and, if the citizens are citizens, they are obliged to obtain the opinion of the representative body i.e. city council or municipal council. They are also obliged to obtain the opinion of the County Assembly and the consent of the Ministry of Finance. Proposer of the law to establish new municipalities of access to volunteerism without taking care of the submitted manifestations of representative bodies. For example, we find this in Article 11 which proposes to isolate the settlements of Drvenik, Grizana Belgrade and Tribalj from the system of the Vinodol municipality and the establishment of the Municipality of Vinodol, i.e. in the legal procedure puts a formal invalid initiative proposing the separation of Lopar from the city of Rab and the establishment of the municipality of Lopar, as well as the separation of Budrovci from the composition of the City of Đakov for which the opinions of representative bodies are not based under Article 30(2) of the Law. In an explanation given by the legislator, it is further alluded to the deafness of some representative bodies on citizens' initiatives to establish new municipalities. From the example of the city of Rab, I cite quite the opposite. The city of Rab has referred within the prescribed deadline to the Central State Administration Office a request to clarify some of the previous issues related to the legality of the Lopar initiative from the town of Rab. The central state office did not respond to this request until today, but in the legal procedure, by emergency proceedings against business provisions, it included an initiative which is undoubtedly legally invalid, which is simply terrible and inadmissible. In the light of the legislative proposal, it is further stated that no additional means are needed to implement this law. The truth is quite the opposite. Most of the existing municipalities, from which some new municipalities now stand out, cannot satisfy the financing of their needs, such as the Vindol municipalities, and further narrowing down the situation will make it even more drastic and additional resources will need to be provided in the state budget to meet the elemental needs. Here it should be recalled that the programme positions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia contained in the framework programme of decentralisation for 2004, 2007 adopted at a meeting of the Government held on 8 December 2004, which was also the subject of an expert article by the Head of the Department of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government in the Central State Administration Office published in the new Informor No 5307 of 15 January this year. That's this informant where, I quote, it's listed. "On the one hand, an unreasonable number of units of local self-government affecting the level of public spending in its different administrative bodies while on the other hand the centralisation of many administrative activities is an obstacle to the more effective work of the local self-government body." The same views are advocated by the Central State Administration Office as the Proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is also referred to in the legal procedure as a related law. Furthermore, I recall that on 1 April 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its opinion on a proposal for the establishment of a new Tarvabrig municipality in the Istrian County, said then that I quote "against the establishment of new municipalities since it believes that the decapitated municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry on the tasks for which they are planned to be transferred by decentralisation". Here, it's this paper. It should also be recalled that the data presented in the reform study and the decentralisation of local self-government created by the October 2004 urban institute, which is also used by the head of the Central State Office for the Administration in which the study is listed among other things. I quote, "Most municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia are small. The average municipality has only 3 thousand 228 inhabitants on only 86 square kilometers of surface, the average city has 18 thousand 741 inhabitants and a surface area of 167 square kilometers, which according to European standards are small units of local self-government. As a result, many units of local self-government are simply unable to carry out the tasks of local self-government to be devoted. It's not just about financial ability, it's about human resources. The proposed text of the Bill of Law in Article 31 introduces one newspaper that says that the proposer of each regional amendment is no longer obliged to obtain the opinion of the representative body as so far only the opinion of the County Assembly and in Article 32 of the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's just horrible. This means a picturesque statement as if someone wanted to block a part of your house, and he should not only seek your consent but also not inform you of it. It is simply inadmissible and impermissible to the constitutional rights of the local self-government unit and leaves the possibility that any group or group of ambitious citizens on the ground who has a foothold in the government establish their own municipality. The following shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Central State Administration Office, is in favour of real decentralisation in its programming documents and against the irrational increase in the number of units of local self-government while, on the other hand, putting law into the legal procedure which again proposes the establishment of new municipalities which do not have both material and human resources to fulfil their constitutional and legal obligations, and in the event of a proposal to establish the Municipality of Lopar and Budrovci, in addition to the above, is also about putting into the legal procedure of a legally invalid initiative. And finally, I wonder what happened in the period from 1.4.2004 when Prime Minister Sanader signed that, to oppose the establishment of new municipalities, since he believes that the reduced municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry out the tasks that are planned to be transferred to them by decentralisation, and in relation to the proposal for the establishment of the Tarva-Briga municipality until today when the same proposal gives consent. We can only speculate on that. I can't believe Prime Minister Sanader would change his mind about the same thing in such a short time. I wonder why there is no clear list of new municipalities in the light of the bill? Whether the government is subject to the pressures of local HDZ officials due to its busyness over major and accumulated problems in the country and is missing out on other proposals such as Tarva, Briga, Tribunal and similar efforts to achieve good results in the upcoming local elections. Did she, on the other hand, take care of the functioning of the weaned local units and especially of islands that are extremely sensitive to the environment? Isn't that the downsizing of the standards of the functioning of local self-government units, and some ambitious individuals might fit those standards? Or maybe there are several parallel policies of this government? We see further that, according to the amendments that have arrived at this legislative proposal, almost everyone in this assembly has someone their favorite to establish a new municipality. I hope that the Proposer of this Law will give a meaningful answer to these questions. The SDP Club therefore cannot support this legislative proposal in this form and form, depending on how the amendments it has made will pass. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as mayor of Rab City, to present a few thoughts regarding this issue. The city of Rab is a unique political community that covers the entire island of Rab and several of the islands and islands of the total area of 102 square kilometers. The 2001 census has 9,000 480 inhabitants. The status of self-government was granted to him by Roman Emperor Octavian Augustus 10 years before Christ, which he preserved until today, which is 2015. To illustrate the situation when Rab, when the city of Rab had a sewer and a water network where Vienna was today a forest. In this long, rich history, there was always a unique political community except between 16 June 1938 and 6 May 1940 when conflict between supporters of Stojadinovic's regime and the growing influence of HSS supporters and several ambitious individuals on Rab founded two municipalities. City and Sela municipality. This has caused the terrible conflicts and inability to function throughout the island and has seen all the absurdity and inability and the situation of the royal governor in 6.5.1940 decided to reunite the two Rab municipalities into a unique municipality. The events were described by Mrs Mira Kolar in the scientific paper "Economic, Economic Political Conflict of the City of Rab and the Rape Villages" before World War II and published in the Adriatic Chamber of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, here is the text. In their long written history of 2015 on the island of Rab, there were: Romans, Byzantines, French, Venezuela, Napoleon, Croatian rulers then Italy, Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, Slovenians, NDH-sia, Socialist Ferrerative Republic of Yugoslavia and eventually the Republic of Croatia and all that time except for that short period was a unique administrative unit and no one was able to share it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if you want to do this today, let it be an honor for you, and I don't want any part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34452	Thank you very much, dear colleague. That was pretty educational. I will request the representative of State Secretary Antun Palaric, who is entitled on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34453	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now heard here quotes from a more or less professional article written by a Central State Office official, but that is no argument whatsoever. That's what my officers and other officers write for the Informor more or less good, but it's not the official attitude of the government or the house where they work, and I can't forbid them to write. The government cannot accept interpretation that it cannot propose to amend the law or that the Croatian Parliament cannot pass the Law on districts, towns and municipalities without first agreeing with the municipal chief or council or the City Council. And it compares to a private house. No, the municipalities aren't a private house. The municipalities and cities are legal persons of public law, it is primarily a political organisation and the Croatian Parliament has no right to touch the house, but has the right to decide on regional adoption. I've written these provisions you're referring to. We know why we wanted to. We wanted to stop these thousands and thousands of initiatives, so we wanted to put it a little dead, but it never occurred to us that we could ban the Parliament from making a decision. In a specific case, let another truth be heard. It is true that for the area of establishing a new municipality of Lopar on the island of Rab, by the way we have many islands which are also natural units, but have more municipalities and all work well for example on my Hvar with two cities and two municipalities and never more peace than when we set it up. And now he has no opinion of the city council. And the answer was why there was no opinion when the initial board asked for a statement according to the documents available on 14 December 2004 to the city of Rab. And when he asked the Primorian County for an opinion on 8 December 2004, he had no opinion and now the Assembly would have to ignore the will of 715 full-time citizens to speak to the full-time citizens who live there. The question should be answered whether these 715 citizens have the right of course the entire area would have more inhabitants, there are 1600 inhabitants. Do they have the right to organise themselves as a unit of local self-government which is the reason for their dissatisfaction with the existing structure and finally plead. And let this Parliament decide. There can be no material reasons we know that our coastal sites are rich, we should say what is happening there but in no way can the Government agree that Croatia feeds that a municipal council can prevent the change of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34454	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations is the first representative of Stazic go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34455	It is incorrect to say by the Secretary of State that the expert opinion published in the expert article is not an argument. This expert opinion published in the professional article does not have to be the government's position as the secretary of state says it is not, but then it proves that the government is unprofessional and also anti-professional. When an expert opinion is not her position. But an expert opinion is an argument and the strongest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34456	Thank you very much. Another correction to the incorrect quote, MP Antesic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34457	It is incorrect that State Secretary Mr. Palaric made it clear that the city council in this case of the town of Rab did not. It was manifested in a way that it sent a letter to the administrative central state administration office asking for clarification because the initiative that was initiated by the Lopar Municipality's initiative had been collected for almost two years. And this initiative is a legally valid initiative, i.e. a legally valid basis for the launch of an initiative for the establishment of the municipality of Lopar. It is true that this state office was not manifested at all and the request to the State Office was sent within the prescribed time limit for obtaining an answer. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34458	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the club debate. Next up, the SDSS Club is enlisted with a representative of the Gajics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34459	Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposer of this law here and in general in the debate on the proposal says it has the tendency to fully solve matter by installing the resulting changes, establishing new units, norming the procedure to expand some kind of decentralisation in the conduct of public affairs. It's all fine, but it's all about one complex matter that breaks basic life issues, citizens issues. That's kind of why I think this law deserves serious and it seems to me to be a more critical debate and I'm going to bring a few things out here that are so critically intonated. The first thing I want to say about here is this question of the process of forming new municipalities first of all. Because that's what the whole thing's all about. The law or reasoning states that the representative body gives its opinion. He's still talking about one-third of the citizens who give the initiative. It also speaks for citizens living there. He is still talking about the opinion of the County Assembly, talking about the consent of the Ministry of Finance. All of these are criteria that make sense What's missing here and I think it's important that it's some kind of objective criterion, what's with a spatial, communal, economic functional whole. Because I think when you go to form a unit, even when it comes to the community, you actually have to start from the fact that it's the whole thing that has so-called. An objectiveized foothold. There's no such thing here, and I think it's in law as an objective criterion that we're going to stick to or what we're going to hold on to should be established. The reason for this is also in the current organisation and the current organisations show that we have a large number, too many local units could be said in the population range of 1,000 to 15 000 and have criteria in which, some local units do not allow the individual or elemental survival of people. And you have local units that don't actually have the opportunity to significantly influence the lives of citizens. Is what's there with the function of the local self-government unit as a whole. Then it doesn't run out. Now with this law, when it comes to forming new units, you have, say, two ranges. One is this law establishing a new unit of local self-government of a new municipality, and I would dare say that this is done on the criteria of political power relations. It is also likely that it wants to influence the election result. That's in some kind of pre-election function. That's one thing I read here. Secondly, I know an initiative by the citizens of Serbs that cannot pass or that is not articulated to a good extent, although that is exactly what the spatial communal, functional whole is about. And you have there, say, 1,500 probably BP under some other circumstances will quickly be two and a half thousand people, and it could work better as a local environment than some other examples. I have one more thing to add to that. If the relationship of the municipality of Gracac, which is 45 kilometers away, might be something different, perhaps it would not have spoken in this way. But then it's about the need to both fit in and talk about how I said objective criteria a little while ago. I know you can tell me, let's suggest that change, so let's form a community, but again I'm going back to what, it's a political power ratio in which actually an objective criterion is not decisive. The other thing I want to say here is the law establishing city status in a new way, if I may say so, status and size. Of course I understand that it's necessary but I also know that size has to come from a number and I know that the number of people in that thing is relevant. But in this talk of cities, I now want to say through this functional execution, something about functional exercise of public functions, like public administration functions. State Secretary Palaric when we held talks on this law then mentioned something that makes very sense is the issue of decentralisation. And now look, performing public functions we have in the department offices on the ground, we have in the county offices, we have in the city offices, we have in the offices of the state administration and we have at the administration, at the municipal administration. I know that it is very important to perform public functions, in public, let's say administrative functions are performed effectively first. And secondly, to perform so arranged that it is within the reach of the citizens. I would like to say that when it comes to the role of cities and when it comes to decentralisation that here we have some kind of good analysis of how this is done and that these solutions about decentralisation and the roles of cities are the product of such a previous analysis in which we will easily agree on an objective criterion. The third thing I want to say here is this question is called places that this law now, to say so, verifys. I know local units have the right to decide whether to call themselves one or the other. Now, according to the law, there are approximately 30 places where the name has been changed. I'll only get you some here. For example, the Court is no longer on the Union, the Iron is no longer a Vrgine bridge, you have Cerovac Vukmanic and it was the Tušilovsky, you have the Croatian field and there was the Serbian field, etc. I don't know first of all the reasons why people made that decision, but I know something else, and I'm very confident that it wasn't mindless and particularly against the will of the native population to make these kinds of changes in the names of the place. I can understand the names that are, for example, ideological adjectives, Partizan pose, etc. I can understand that now. Although I would be against it, but I can understand that. But there are too many names in which there has been a rapid change of name without, I say, the consent of the host population and mostly against its will. It's in some kind of function that instrumentsizes and I don't really think it's worth it. The answer you can tell me, which is, let other people change what is now. I don't think there's enough answer and it doesn't really make sense. Because of what I have stated and because I think this law is important because it establishes some kind of construction, construction of a place and relations between them, competences etc. I convey our club's opinion that what we're talking about today should be treated as the first reading so that this law can be passed in better content and after a longer debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34460	Thank you very much, colleague. Next on behalf of the HSLS Club DC LS representative Frano Piploić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34461	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. If God does, Croatia will soon be richer for 9 new municipalities and two cities. These are the proposals set out in this Proposal for a Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. I personally support this proposal. Why? Because he is an expression of the will of the local population and therefore any opposition to such a one will would lead to some of the settings set out in our laws in question. On behalf of, if all the legal requirements are met, i.e. assumptions and legal procedures on behalf of the HSLS Club DC and LS I support such a single structure of the counties, cities and municipalities in Croatia, respecting above all, I say, the legitimate right of our citizens to decide on vital issues in their environment. Since I come from the 5th constituency and we have here two proposals for two new municipalities, the municipality of Podvinje which, i.e. the settlement of Podvinje, wants to be separated from the town of Slavonski Brod and the village of Stitar which wants to be separated from the municipality or town of Župa. I'd say about one case and another. We have two examples here. One example where the procedures were followed as a whole, where the people of Šitara expressed their wish, will, to send a proposal to the City Council of the City of Zupa, the County of Vukovar-Srijem. And all this has come neatly to the ministry and the proposal is completely clean and legitimate. The town of Štitar meets all the conditions that the law foresees to be a municipality, so it represents one socio-economic, one spatial whole. And it's some "divorce" town of Županje and its village of Štitar, going to be spent, going through a good faith without some big trinkets. And I suppose tomorrow it will be a basis for quality cooperation means new municipalities and the city of Župje. When it comes to the Obvjetje case is a little more specific and different. You all know Podvinje is located on the north side of the car road, on the slopes of the Delje up. A place that has its own history as well as many other places. A place that was already a parish in 1577. In 1626, Podvinje was a religious centre for Slavonski Brod and surrounding villages. In 1765, Podvinje already has a school, for Bukov and Tomica, Vinogorje. In 1807, the administrative centre for Brod and surrounding villages was the administrative centre. In 1822, the headquarters of the 1st quarter of the Austro-Hungarian Army, and in 1888, the municipality of Podvinje was the municipality for a wide belt belonging to villages from Oriovac to Trnjan. Since 1926, Podvinje has been a municipal centre for the towns of Podvinje, Bukovlje, Rastushje, Tomic and Vinogorje, and for the area, the current area of the local coast of Zrinski and Frankopan, means south of the highway. I've listed these few data that actually you can see that Podvinje is in every respect one means geographical whole, that one is a socio-cultural whole, that it has nearly 4 thousand inhabitants. About a thousand hundred households, about 170 cottages. That after this Homeland War, he moved somewhere around a thousand inhabitants from the Bosnian Posavina area, so that the place has all the conditions to be ensnared. In 1993, the underprivileged people applied to be a municipality, and they were not allowed to do so. In 2003 they again referred the request to the city council, they repeated it again in 2004, but there lies a rabbit, our distinguished mayor and city council, and the city council deafened on the request of the town of Podvinje. In no letter, no paper has responded to this initiative to refuse, to explain why they reject such an initiative. On the contrary, silence lasted to this day, only the County Assembly declared itself, and I am sorry that there are no colleagues of the Ravens who can confirm it, the County Assembly who hastened the gentlemen of the City Council from Slavonski Brod to see about it. However, they never manifested themselves, but that is why our mayor was manifested, and I believe that all of you, as parliamentary representatives, received from him a letter stating his reasons for not being a municipality. However, many of these criteria are to be questioned by the mayor and sent to parliamentary deputies. I assume that he tried to scare Podvince with the authority of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian representative in the Croatian Parliament so that the decision would be made on the Mayor's proposal and that the citizens would be guilty of expressing their will. I assume that you will properly evaluate your colleagues and colleagues and that you will not give yourself up on thin ice and accept the mayor's arguments. If he was a good mayor, that he was a good mayor, he could communicate nicely with his citizens and solve all the issues before this happened in the Parliament. I've been obliged to make this a little more explicit because even in the press these days, at least in our locals, it's a lot of untruths about the Podwins. A few more words about only the Podvyne. The undercoat is also interesting because of this for the large and who want to put their paws on the land which are very attractive along the highway. The citizens of Podvnja want to be the ones to determine the purpose in accordance with the law, in accordance with the spatial plans. Likewise, many who try to challenge the Intruder’s will to be a municipality aim to engage their production capacities. There again with no will and no desire for the influence of the citizens themselves. So far, we have had a lot of initiatives while the Croatian states where certain municipalities have been separated from certain settlements and it seems to me that almost every municipality that has been created has made a permanent shift that there has been a population development. That's why I plead that people and their will should not be restricted if there are all of them legally provided conditions. And to the very end, here's another word I want regarding only the Podvy. A lot of Bosnian Posavina residents have moved to Podvinj. These people found that place, that's where they settled. It is undermining as one geographical whole, as a place close to a larger city corresponds to their way of life that they had until they arrived and moved to the area of Slavonski Brod. In the hope that you will support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34462	Thank you very much, colleague. Next on behalf of the HSP club, counterpart Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34463	Madam Vice President, since the Secretary of State is gone, then I welcome my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian party's rights club maintains that this bill did not fall into the essence of the problems that arise in connection with the territorial structure of local and regional, or regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the proposed law offers only minor adjustments to the territorial structure compared to the existing situation. Thus, the establishment of several new municipalities or the separation of individual settlements, all of which could be resolved by existing law, i.e. amendments and additions to the existing law. The biggest problem is that the applicant has not defined the criteria under which the proposed territorial changes have been accepted, i.e. the criteria under which certain requests have not been accepted. In the absence of such criteria, we witness constant and even unrealistic demands for the formation of new municipalities. This does not take into account the sustainability of a system that creates a number of small municipalities of several hundred people who have no perspective and whose budgets cannot solve any major problem in local self-government units, or local population. With regard to the process of initiating regional changes, attention shall be paid to the provision of Article 30 of the Law which stipulates that the change in the area of the unit of local self-government and the establishment of new units may be proposed by a representative body, i.e. one third of the citizens of the area concerned, which requires a new unit or separation from a particular city. Whether the applicant is a representative body or citizens themselves, the law establishes the obligation to obtain citizens' opinions from areas in which a change is sought, i.e. the opinion of a representative body. Proposers of these amendments shall also be obliged to obtain the opinion of the County Assembly in whose area the units of local self-government for which the establishment or separation is sought, i.e. the change. The law does not determine whether the opinion of a representative body is at all relevant or whether the opinion of the county congregation is positive or negative. Therefore, the Croatian party's rights club maintains that these are major failures and failures of this law. HSP has no objection to the establishment of new municipalities in the Republic of Croatia especially if it meets the democratically expressed will of citizens. In addition, it is in the spirit of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was ratified by the Parliament more than 10 years ago. However, the European Charter defines local self-government as the right and ability of citizens in a city or municipality to manage part of public affairs themselves, so the emphasis is on the part of public affairs and only those they can manage because it is according to the European Charter their right, but it does not necessarily have to be their obligation. I especially point this out for two reasons. First, no one has ever made an analysis of the price of such a system of local self-government over 500 cities and municipalities, i.e. no one has ever compared how much more expensive this system of local self-government with more than 500 towns and municipalities or perhaps cheaper than the former, or so far 100 municipalities in Croatia. Secondly, the result of the creation of new municipalities is most often that one part of them can no longer meet even the basic legal requirements, so to settle the costs of their administration, not to mention the legal obligation to settle 20% of the material costs of primary schooling or primary health care in their area. Not to mention the problem of municipal waste, public transportation or fire protection. We therefore believe that the financing of health and education must be transferred to the county level so that the health and education of our citizens would not depend on the property or property of individual cities and municipalities. We believe it is a complete failure to force municipalities to settle these costs from their resources. Finally, we believe that the initiators of these proposals on the establishment of new municipalities are confident that these newly established municipalities will be able to survive financially themselves, i.e. their municipal budgets, i.e. revenues, will be able to meet all their municipal and economic needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34464	Thank you very much, colleague. And now it's up to Club IDS fellow MP Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34465	Dear Madam Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear gentlemen of the Parliament. Surely the day will come when we will have to ask ourselves if such a structure in nearly 600 municipalities, which cities, which the county even makes sense. Those 600 municipalities, which cities and counties have at their disposal at 10 billion kunas. The city of Zagreb with about 5 billion kuna and the country with the remaining 85%. In particular, the absurd position of the county, they participate in the material distribution with only 1.5% means 20 Croatian counties together have a budget of 40% of the City of Zagreb. It is absurd to change it clearly, not the City of Zagreb to take something from them not God, but to redistribute between the state and the county. So, if we've neglected something in these 13 years of local self-government these are counties that, for example, do not have any square meters of construction, agricultural, forest or so on. Tourist land. I don't know what kind of impression citizens get with a single square meter. However, this law sets up some new municipalities in Istria are Funtana, and Tar Vabriga, and interesting opposition is always played because of petty interests, i.e. the position of pardon, power, by forming new municipalities. To avoid any confusion, IDS is for Funatna and Tar Vabriga. The position is now being handled again with that interest and often neglects the interest of a wider environment. Now I do not know very well the opportunities outside Istria obviously in the Primorje-Gorski County HDZ intends to win with such engineering will be difficult for them in several municipalities, whether this will happen. Such engineering is simply not perspective because the day will come when we will have to decide again in this House to abolish some municipalities. As far as Istria is concerned, the IDS is for Tar Vabriga as the new IDS municipality is for Funtana as a new municipality, absolutely yes. To be against would be crazy, however, while these two municipalities will be able to exist all depends on good teams to whom these municipalities should be entrusted and in the original aid of the county, some municipalities mentioned in this legislative proposal will certainly not be in such a future. True, someone may say that I do not need to be interested, but as far as Istria is concerned, everyone in Funtana will admit that one Vrsar did not neglect that municipality, I don't know from building the marina with its means, not some entrepreneur, this Funtana has 700 inhabitants, with its resolved infrastructure, she has a million 342 nights which is 7.95% Istrian nights, it's a circus somewhere around 3.5 Croatian nights, times 0.75 average of the residence tax euro clearly, times 70 euros per guest how much daily their stay there is, then it's certain that the municipality will exist. The same goes for Tar Vabriga when, in turn, he did not neglect that municipality because between 6 and 7 million kunas were invested annually in that local committee. Tar VAbriga has a million 426 thousand 750 nights or 8.46% of Istrian nights which is 4% Croatian overnights and it is clear that such a municipality can exist and it is legitimate that people living there hold that they can do more alone without any tutors outside their territory. It is legitimately their right and I clearly support it. However, we gentlemen will still have to stop at the ball when the establishment of these new municipalities is due. It is illogical that one Porestine with 26 thousand inhabitants has 8 local self-governments, as on the other side Puljština with 80,000 inhabitants. A similar initiative appeared in Stinjan, and now the question arises why the government did not accept the initiative or why the government is going to break up one Gračice, one of the most successful municipalities in Istria, in such a way that Bazgalje separates and attaches them to Pazina. Care is certainly not helpful, neither is what is important to the inhabitants of BAZgalja, if Pazin is to be helped from the other side then it should be placed in the mountainous and mountainous area. This city is certainly in the most ungrateful economic and therefore financial position in Istria unlike one Labin who, after having broken down almost all industry in the early 1990s, managed to launch a new industrial cycle, and today he reduced his unemployment rate to 7-8%, which is somewhere in the Istrian average but Pazin, which also has no higher unemployment rate than 7-8%, which has always relied on the textile industry precisely because of that he is in an ungrateful position, so more so than some investors who were willing to invest there have moved their plants to Slavonia where they employ 300, 400 and more employees today but unfortunately did not stay in Pazin. Why not, you should ask the unions. But to get back to those bazgals. Why take them Gracias. In 97th in Pazin returned to Lindar and it was okay, in 2001 in Pazin crossed the Lindar Katun and it is also okay today residents of Bazgali according to my information are not for it, one good part is not, the municipality certainly does not neglect them with modest means in the area of this local committee, Štihovići, Bolčići, Funčići, Saint Marija Magdalene got asphalt, also Shujevići, Čuleti, Marcani, the water has got a complete local board, true Bazgalje, Lovrečići should get asphalt but I believe that the municipal infrastructure will be incomparably resolved if they are in Gračišje, but special if Chief Mijan Drušić remains. For example, enough to say that the municipality in 93 did not have one meter of water in its space, today there are 98% of citizens and the municipality’s connection to the water installation for which it was to be built in the 10 years of 50 and 60km of water installations. At last, I'm not sure that Bazgali means these 250 residents if they were honestly explained what moving means to them that they would be for Pazin, they would certainly be against, why? Because Gracias is a mountain-mounted area, and the city of Pazin is not. This means that these 250 residents lose at the end of the year, for example, the possibility of tax returns according to the Income Act, which is about 2 thousand kuna per employee, in one family that is 4 thousand kuna. Like in one Buzet or I don't know Lanista, etc., and that'll admit everyone's not a bit. Finally in Pazin, based on the Law on profit is paid 20% in Gračis is 15%. Or 25% less of what they're going to say is that all those who deal with entrepreneurship have come to such a change or they're going to be in a more difficult position. Secondly, when some of the Istrian places were in parallel, and respecting the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities of the Constitutional Court Decision, and especially these international conventions and contracts concluded by ex Yugoslavia in the 50s, 69s, 70s, and the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia concluded with Italy those contracts, the names of the places in the bilingual areas of the County of Istria should be written in Croatian and Italian. It's the basis of bilingualism, it's the basis of one language freedom, it's the basis for respecting the toponym, it's the basis of minority tolerance, it's actually one fair relationship of the majority to the minority, it's the final basis of respect for interstate contracts that no government has the right to go deaf. One word when Istria is related to this avoidance of bilingualism can also be a provocation. In these places live the Italian Croats as an indigenous population, clearly in these places live others who feel the same as the indigenous population. And finally why does the government supported and minority MPs not respect the commitment of the population in that space? It's simply that, if you don't, you have to do it with one claim, one impertinence that should be put to rest. If it's going to change what we had before, before hearing about this speaker, even that natural, I think Toponymous Serbian field in the Croatian field, I just can't understand this freedom that someone allows, if that Toponin has been called that for centuries. It's just like when we were 98 or 99 when we had a similar legal initiative to get the government's proposal that the White Manastir should be written by the White Manastir. It's simply not done by gentlemen, it's the imposition of a behavior that I don't know anywhere, probably beyond this assembly will experience a conviction. And I'm really asking you not to play that way. Finally, Tarvabriga can certainly insist, she has a million 426 thousand of those nights. Funtana can certainly exist, she has a million 342 thousand overnights, so it's a rich place. Their main foundation is tourism. And if they last these seasons, and this one that's supposed to be great in front of us, they're not going to be destitute at all. Well, if it's going to be with some others like that, that's what we'll see. And I want Funtana, Tarvabrigi, and I am convinced that whoever runs the county, I have no doubt that it will be IDS, will be very helpful to them. What is also needed to be done, perhaps not today, because this is the first reading, perhaps not even the matter of this Law, should be defined when the disbanding of municipal, city councils, or county congregations, still has time. I would suggest that it be there I don't know, say 10.4. And we just know when we're going to that election. And lastly, it is not true that the implementation of this Law, as Mr Antesic spoke of, will not require the provision of new funds. It's certainly going to be necessary to secure new funds. However, these funds will not provide a state budget, but citizens of these areas will have to provide certain resources, as each formation of a local self-government costs mainly. But sometimes, by political formation of new municipalities, it has been done before. And now the question is, how can IDS be asked about this bill? We'll support the open-minded statement of all the amendments to the opposition. Absolutely everything. But can we at the end where Istria gets two municipalities of Tarvabriga and Funtana to be against the Law? We just can't. We can't go back home, not vote for the formation of those two municipalities, but we'll once again say we support all the logical amendments. It would be best if we had 8 or 9 of these legal initiatives in each legal initiative per municipality, then the situation would be clean, but like this we are simply brought into an extremely ungrateful situation, because you yourself know that IDS cannot be against the law in which the Tarvabriga municipality is formed, or Funtana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34466	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Nikola Sopčić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34467	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. I am a valid law that was passed in 97 years and so far has been changed seems to me 16 times, and has been complemented practically every year, except last and several times. But let me say something about the very structure that, with certain adjustments in force practically since 1993. It has been shown in practice that this kind of territorial structure is good. The number of units of local self-government that we often say is too large has contributed to a better and more even development of the Republic of Croatia. A very large number of municipalities often very small and territorial and per capita have helped develop small communities, especially in the area of construction of municipal infrastructure. So today, we have small municipalities that are, by the degree of construction of municipal infrastructure, construction of water, sewerage networks, public lighting, road infrastructure by side, far larger and financially stronger environments, many cities sometimes even in front of them, especially their edges. This would have been difficult to achieve if they had remained within the former large municipalities, as it was until 93. Many of them have become or have already become real small urban centres, where significant economic activity is taking place. It expands and develops entrepreneurship activities, through the formation and development of entrepreneurship zones and the like. I could list a number of examples from my region of Karlovac County, such as the municipalities of Draganic, Netertic, Rakovica, Žačak and many others. So I believe that the majority of newly formed local self-government units, although often small and small financial opportunities, have justified their existence. For this reason, we believe that the existing territorial structure is good, that it does not need to be significantly changed, because so far it has demonstrated its efficiency and also enables more even development. But that he needs to be processed by that yes. And that's exactly where this bill goes. I believe that this way of collecting and processing initiatives to change the borders of municipalities, cities and counties as well as setting up new municipalities is good because it is not good that practically every year several times, here last year the Law on districts, cities and municipalities has been amended three times, and the fact is that the number of requests has been reduced lately for the formation of new units of local self-government, which shows us that citizens' aspirations have been largely met. With this bill, all initiatives arrived in the past period until the end of last year were processed and installed in good works and in the text of the law itself. The law itself defines the headquarters of all counties and does not foresee any change in that section. The proposal contains all changes relating to changes to the name of the settlement, which were adopted on municipal and city councils under the Law on local and regional i.e. the regional self-government of 2001. The draft law also lays down a way of changing borders between units of local self-government and provides for the establishment of a commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as an arbiter in the event of disputes, and also provides for a legal protection institute, the rights of the parties' interest in the process of establishing borders. At the same time, the law redefines the current way of examining and collecting citizens' opinions on border change requirements or requests for the establishment of new units of local self-government. This bill does not require seeking the opinion of the local self-government unit of the municipality or city where the change is sought if at least one third of citizens have submitted the application, means citizens with the right to vote in the area. At the same time, however, it remains a provision to seek the opinion of the County Assembly in whose area the change is sought. I believe that this provision is good because so far we have often witnessed that the unit of local self-government, its representative body, especially the unit of separation, obstructs the adoption of an opinion which in some ways prevents a particular environment from applying. All amendments are also required by the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change, not just the opinion of the Ministry of Finance as has been so far. I think it's a good provision because it can't be just a criterion for self-financing, but the only criterion of justifying the formation of new units of local self-government. The bill itself very precisely defines the procedure itself after changing the area or forming a new unit of local self-government from the period of law-making to the establishment of new representative bodies, defines the taking over of cases after the constitution, the division of property as well as mutual rights and obligations and also defines the authority of the Government if it is not possible to reach a mutual agreement. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34468	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, fellow representative! I must give you further notice that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34469	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I am extremely sorry that there is no Mr. Secretary of State in the hall because we are discussing the law even though when we set the agenda we proposed first reading rather than emergency procedure. If I understood him well today in his opening statement, he said that they were willing to consider this proposal to be a first reading rather than an emergency procedure. The committees also considered such proposals. Now we are not clear whether we are still discussing an emergency procedure, first reading, writing amendments, not writing, but if the rest of the emergency procedure, then at least I am appealing that today there would be no vote on this law and amendments tabled because it is too large, especially because I want to believe that possibly a week from now the Central Office of the State Administration will take time to check the arguments of all the amendments they have submitted. And we are discussing this law without a prior debate in the units of local and regional self-government. And that the evidence of this also testifies to the fact that the county community has also expressed a number of objections and signalled to us that in this law not only has no debate been held with the counties as bodies of regional self-government units, but it has obviously not been discussed with the county community as a single association or association of regional self-government units and we are coming with it to adopt the net before the local elections are called. The number of amendments also proves that in certain municipalities and cities they did not even have the opportunity to know that this law would be passed so that they could not give their proposals on time in the regular procedure. And I would like to believe that you would agree with me that it might have been the smartest thing that a year ago the government made a call to all municipalities, cities, counties, to make proposals on the basis of the existing old law after the bill was finished to return to local self-government and after the agreement of local self-government came before us. We are deciding on the rights of citizens that they can and must exercise in local and regional self-government and by an urgent procedure ahead of the elections we want to pass a law under which elections should be held in about 50 days. I remind you that this law lays down and regulates and terms of settlements and seats of certain municipalities and counties, that it determines the list of settlements within municipalities and cities, regulates the procedure when a settlement from one municipality wants to go to another or from one city to another, not just the formation of new municipalities and cities, because in the debate we usually only have fun about it. I would also like to remind myself of the obligation that Croatia has to make to the international or European Charter of Local Self-Government, which obliges us in the Assembly, saying that we do not make any changes in the local area and do not work unless we have previously asked people for an opinion on local or regional self-government. I have not found any in the light of this law of such previous opinions. And I said that I thought it was enough for a year that the Central State Office could invite complete municipalities, cities and counties and return them to see what was proposed at the end of the proposal. We also often talk about that in Croatia there are too many municipalities, too many cities, and thus we only refer to some numerical indicators, to numerical sequences. Well, to me, there's only one criterion that matters, and that's whether something works somewhere or not. If something works somewhere with a large or small number of municipalities, small or large municipalities, then it never changes. What and where something good works doesn't change. State criteria which rest exclusively on figures and which are set here on Mark's square will always wrong those who can and under different conditions and criteria function just so that we don't understand why they function well? We swear that we must respect the will of the people, the inhabitants, the people. When they're looking for new municipalities we say there's too many of them, that we're against it. When they're looking for a move from one community to another, we don't understand why. And why are requests being made for such a large number of new municipalities? It's simply because we're subject to metropolization, all at every level. We have the metropolis of the state, within the county we have our own metropolis, within municipalities and cities we create small tiny metropolises while the periphery always remains neglected, and that periphery has begun to count. They began to follow, read, and realized that they themselves would get something more that was now going to someone else. And when they ask for their community, then first we harass them with procedures for two years and say you are not within the framework or we bring these changes ahead of the elections which are no longer important now, neither the figures nor the criteria nor the budgets, but some political evaluations. We have abolished the old municipal system, local communities, established municipalities with powers and powers that people have understood as former local communities, and that at the same time local self-government did not continue to develop so that the jury-account of the local board must be an art because normally that the municipality,... The municipal chief, the municipal headship, does not give the jury accounts to the local committees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is normal to oppose because we are constantly disturbed, constantly looking for, demand, and within the local committee where they are established, where there is a Council of the Local Committee. Where and the willingness of the population to start themselves from the dead, they try to do something with their money and actions without giving them a legal personality, even though by law we could have because in 2003 we didn't say they had to have legal capacity and a jury account. We're not gonna change that now. We leave at will one or two men in the community. And then when I can't as a local self-government, their only way out is to solve their problem with a new community. So if we have a local self-government in the Constitution written down and let this law lets it develop, and maybe the need for municipalities will disappear when we allow within the local board those needs that require municipalities to solve and meet. You know, it's quite clear to me that if they see in some place that their annual tax income is 800,000 kuna, and that they are returned from the municipal budget 100 that they are dissatisfied. They're unhappy from year to year. These were supposed to be conversations and criteria to come up with a new bill. I hope that one day we will accept that between the two cycles of local elections we will no longer change the laws and that these laws should be changed every 4 years, not every 3 months. This law has had 17 amendments if I'm not mistaken by now and supplemental. It is precisely because these problems were expressed in some parts of Croatia, especially those where people realized that they should not wait for Zagreb and the state budget, that they could do something local and themselves good. And then when citizens themselves want it, then the state is watching out and saying that something isn't like that, that it's not by the laws and regulations, and we're mad at them when they're active and they're looking for their community or from one to the other if they're not satisfied with the way they operate and they can't change the choice through a political mechanism. Not by early elections, not by regular or any other approach. The next problem I want to warn you, which is the sole culprit of the Central State Office, led by the Secretary of State, that the problem of the border when it cannot be solved locally and locally under the new law's proposal is resolved by the Commission of the Government of Borders, whose head office is in the Central State Office. They don't have a deadline when they have to solve... Three, four years of local objects in Zagreb are waiting to be resolved without any response back to the field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both by the old and by this law. If the decision of the municipality is not satisfied, they shall go to appeal before the Government. And yet we do not have a deadline within which the state government must resolve the dispute or appeal. And that's why I'm proposing because all citizens have some obligations that within eight or 15 days to the state we have to resolve our obligations. Now let's make the state and the government decide within 30 days to settle disputes that are not locally resolved or appeal proceedings within 30 days in order to enable the development and adoption of spatial plans, and I tell you that in Međimurje municipalities cannot adopt spatial plans because 3 years from Zagreb can't get a solution on arbitration around borders because they have no established borders. That's the only example I'm giving you of the border problem. And for 3 years, no one from the Central Office of the State Administration wants to give the municipality an answer when the appeal or dispute will be resolved. And what you're always bothering us are answers. These are the problems of local self-government and I'm surprised that again the new bill does not foresee the obligation to settle some disputes within the appropriate time. I suggest 30 days in my amendment so be 60, but 60 days, 2 months not two or three years. And the number of such items is certainly large, which is due to the fact that the monasteries do not correspond to the borders and the cadastrian borders cannot always be applied and in any case as the borders of municipalities, cities or more municipalities together. This Law also stipulates in Article 32 that one who proposes change must obtain prior consent from the Government. Not the previous opinion, but the previous consent. What does that mean? If he doesn't get anything from the government that he can't come before the Parliament with a proposal for an amendment, the addition of the law because it requires prior consent. And if it's the silence of the administration for two years, there's no initiative. I guess it meant previous opinion, positive or negative. But with the government's opinion, someone must have the right to come before Parliament. If it says it has to have prior consent, then there's no initiative. And I'm asking nicely about the right of local self-government and the great paroles of decentralisation, and this government has announced that it will make big, big shifts. Now we don't give that same local self-government the right to go with the initiative unless the other side of Mark's square gives consent. And finally, Article 23. Međimurje County number 14, Pribislavec. I couldn't find it anywhere, instead of the list of settlements it says M.O., Pribislavec M.O., Roma settlement, Pribislavec. Which means this M.O.? I'm guessing the local board? A small municipality? M.O. A small municipality, I guess. This is the Law which determines the list of settlements within the municipality. The village is called Pribislavec and the village is called Roma settlement. Two settlements in one municipality, so kindly please, because I will no longer repair such nonsense in the amendments. No M.O., no M.O. And Mrs. Darling, we're watching, we don't know what it is. So perhaps the urban plan envisaged a new Roma settlement, I suppose. So please don't expect us to be on duty for such failures as this. Besides, this is, from this central office came all kinds of laws, but this one's really disastrous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34470	Thank you very much. We also have one correction to the incorrect assumption. A fellow representative of Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34471	Dear Madam Vice President, my dear colleague has said in my opinion two incorrect allegations. The first is that no concrete proposal has been implemented in terms of public debate procedures and a valid initiative. No previous opinion has been obtained. That's not true. From the material, I wrote down exactly what you said. Nor can that be true, nor can it be seen in the end line. I am correcting what you have incorrectly said because the material itself shows that previous opinions have been obtained and that discussions have been held on the ground and, of course, appropriate initiatives have been carried out. In terms of initiatives, they've been carried out, but they've been given. And the second correction to the incorrect quote, you said this law changes every three months. It's not a fact that he doesn't change every three months. And I'm correcting this inaccuracies to say all the negative energy you've shown over the past year and three months when the government refused to engage in a debate individually by segments of the motion to amend this law. In light of the fact that it is just before the elections when they are rounded or obtained from all over the territory, the majority of the initiatives are to then put this into the legal proposal or the amendment of the law. It's absolutely incorrect to change every three months. And this is exactly the time when it should be, if this law needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34472	Thank you. A colleague of Ante Markov's at the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34473	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Another local election always gives rise to a time in which one grade is on the other side. They're coming up with each other's accusations. The charges against him. Interlocking, proving, and everything that follows all different stakeholders or political groups. And that would be one standard of conduct if it weren't for citizens who were actually the résumé of local self-government, which is actually the content of local self-government. Citizens who try to organize themselves through this form as easily as possible, as simple as possible, as possible, as a way of life in the environments in which they live. It was created as a result of a step-up in social sociological, cultural and economic terms. And the progress that's been made since 93th on this planet has absolutely confirmed that rule we're talking about. Of course, any law that is passed directly and which in some way represents an overture in future local elections is either a way or a kind of attempt to satisfy certain interests, and that the law that is often changed is changed once again. In doing so, one for non-functioning or relatively ineffectiveness of local self-government is trying to accuse a large number of municipalities, others are based on the wrong model, the third is saying that it is important to change something. But definitely since there are examples and good functioning and examples of poor functioning since there are different experiences in these 14 years of application and functioning of local self - government, we can conclude that we have a law that passed the exam. But clearly, in the needs and ways of understanding the functioning of local self - government have outlived him. And that today's debate on this bill of law on areas of county, cities and municipalities, of course, cannot be fully competent and cannot be sufficient for the adoption of a final court and evaluation without the completeness of the amendment in this segment. Which, of course, should start with those already known positions that we all agreed on in principle but certainly not to bring them all together and how to choose, about direct elections, about the different role of citizens in local self-government. Everything that makes European experience in local self-government. So precisely, the HSS has on several occasions proposed different amendments and additions to this law by proposing to the government both in this and last term the establishment of new units of local self-government and only on one relationship and responsibility that we hold absolutely necessary that it is welcome. And that's when citizens start an initiative that they want for any reason, and so on and so on. The marginal, at least in the sense in which a colleague from the HNS Club spoke, were private but obvious through the way most citizens pleaded for him. They're legitimate anyway. And we, as a representative body, owe precisely these legitimate demands of our citizens this very way to consider. And try to give an answer about a framework in which it is good and in which what citizens expect of us will be fulfilled. It is therefore acceptable for us at the HSS Club to establish those units of local self-government not categorized by the number of inhabitants, not by the space they occupy, but by one criterion which contains both the social and economic elements. Because clearly every single municipality and every single unit that can function independently in an economic sense and that has an environment in the sociological and cultural aspect of it, of course, has the right to organise it so far as the law is the way it is. And this is not a good thing to limit so far. Well, I don't think it's necessary to limit it with the possibility of asking the government to agree. So far, this agreement has existed in terms of the county that should have given it. Units from which it stands out but it could have been non-binding in terms of positive or negative. This kept a civil breadth that gave citizens the right to be complicit in the decision-making process. This proposal for a law that completes most of the initiatives as stated in the proposal, i.e. those which were there or were adopted by 20 December 2004. Of course she didn't count all those initiatives that were being discussed and within this Parliament, I'm just going to remind you of one that's not included here. It's a municipality of Brodarica in Sibenik. An initiative has been put in place and an initiative has been adopted by the municipality of Tribunj, which is being separated from the town of Vodice. And other initiatives. To enter the criteria for why one is accepted and the other is not very difficult, in the very reason it is not stated which initiatives have been adopted which have been rejected, which are reasons why they are not accepted and so on. But what is important is that this proposal of the Law on Areas will, in any case, be seen very quickly, very quickly, to experience its amendments and additions, i.e. a complete solution within all those aspects of which I have spoken, and in this sense we at the HSS Club see this as a transitional period in which one discreet attempt has been made to avoid the danger of the adoption of a serious and complete law, and at the discretion stage bring forth such proposals that I will try to reconcile those who have sought and those who have been rejected under my initiatives. Of course, and it's legitimate and we absolutely see this as one introduction to the upcoming local elections, but we keep and stay at the point where this matter will need to be fully completed, adapt it. Those indiscretions that were mentioned here regarding the non-functioning of local committees, which unfortunately very rarely use the possibility of becoming or having legal personality through the opening of a jury account. Unfortunately, it almost didn't bring it back to life anywhere. The problems that local self-government has, not only with regard to borders, but also with regard to those obligations arising from other laws, such as the Law on Spatial Planning, are huge and huge. They are causing one, not only a material blow to local self-government units, but they are definitely constantly threatening to disband certain units of local self-government, and should be, at least as far as the law is concerned, because they did not adopt spatial plans in time, they did not comply with this new regulation in time, even as it concerns coastal municipalities and cities. But that's from the coastal zone. Therefore, they are exposed to a largely pre-set cost-size, and at the same time when we talk about a spatial arrangement, their impact on the implementation of these same laws, which are adopted in terms of spatial plans, detailed urban plans, is almost nothing at all. In fact, there was one aspect of responsibility for implementation and supervision. And we have made it very clear during this debate that we hold that this centralized pillar through which the most important part is being implemented for every municipality and city, and this is the answer to the question of how and who lords with space within that municipality is one very important issue and centralization of that part, but now we know that the implementation of the new Construction Act, the implementation of the new Law on Spatial Planning, has not produced adequate results, which is more so far a huge delay that is already a little bit obvious in certain economic spheres, and unfortunately there has not been a halt in wild construction and particularly with the selective measures so-called. The impact on certain areas has not been given to the principle of equality and of showing that it will be a continuous policy consistent and that it will simply stop to implement the law once and that no one will be excluded from it. Therefore, the major problems that local self-government has lagged on are serious responsibilities to which it is exposed and therefore, the making of a whole law that should be based on new standards that have been reached in Europe is of course a permanent task and we believe that the necessity and need to adopt such a law will be very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34474	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34475	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. As the debate was under way before the parliamentary committees, there was an indication that this proposal for a law would go to first reading just to better consider the founding, proposed establishment of some municipalities and decided on amendments. However, as things stand now, the government is determined to conclude today's debate, namely that this bill does not experience another reading, but rather to bring it to an end as the Final Bill. Here we are from different parties, recently and back, about half an hour ago, an hour ago from the task force, and exactly the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system where we would therefore be able to determine the observations. I think that, on this particular working group which is just the conclusion of that committee, there are identical observations in the direction of creating common criteria which, irrespective of some kind of political current and some populism, would set out criteria for establishing a new municipality, namely the rejection of certain initiatives, given these common criteria. We see, however, that the Government does not listen to what is happening in the Parliament, but is persistent in bringing to an end today the debate on this law, a bill that they had nothing to say or an opportunity to say to the municipalities, or cities, or county. Thus, the way this law is passed does not guarantee any development of local self-government but, in fact, testifys about the future relationship between the state authorities and the units of local self-government, so no matter what political garneries are currently in power in certain units of local self-government. And that's something he's seriously worried about. The basic observation, as many have said, on behalf of certain clubs on this Final Bill on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, is that this review of Article 4 has brought new, i.e. the proposal to develop new municipalities, that there is no explanation at all why these municipalities are being founded. It is also an even bigger problem that there is no reason why certain initiatives are not respected and are not found in the draft of this law. Therefore, this is another bill that the citizens will see as unfair because there, in particular, where there are all reasons for the establishment of the municipality of the Government does not satisfy this proposal, or does not propose to set up such a municipality. While on the other hand, where the minimum conditions are, where there are almost no conditions for establishing a new municipality there, and now more, it is now fully evident that only the role of political motives to establish a municipality is played. But that's something we all agree on informally, and we all say together that our country is split into too many municipalities. And it's too big because they don't respect the criteria. And the basic criterion should be precisely the financial possibility of the municipality's independence and future municipalities. On that trail I also submitted an amendment, because if it is possible to establish the Vrsi municipality, then all the reasons before were to establish the Zaton municipality. In this regard, the very initial committee is gathering all the conditions that are necessary to address both the Government and, ultimately, that this could be in the form of the law at all, i.e. right now, specifically because we are discussing the law itself and in the light of the amendments. The initiative committee, which addressed all MPs, unfortunately, has not received an answer from the ruling, but that response can be precisely in accepting the justification of such a request. Why am I here now explaining the very proposal of my amendment, but not only because I am talking about this proposal but because it seems to me that it is crucial when we discuss these issues to reject initiatives that are not financially founded, which have no perspective, which will not benefit at all their citizens, because citizens continue to think naively if they have established their community that they have solved all their concerns. However, it is necessary to support initiatives where there are reasonable reasons for this, and more than justifiable reasons are precisely to establish a municipality of Zaton because the municipality meets all conditions. It is precisely because it is not independent and makes large revenues stagnating because funds are being taken away, and they do not indicate its further development. It is just such a municipality, i.e. a settlement which I say has every excuse to become a municipality, not only is it a war-stoker town but it is a large tourist settlement, one of the most prospective in all of Croatia and can function without a problem with its revenues independently and is not at the expense of any incentives or funds by the state budget. So with special attention precisely to correct some injustices and not to create new what is further a danger here, I suggest to the Government that, from that aspect alone, consider from that point of view these points of view, or specifically when discussing certain amendments. On this trail, many have said, indeed, this bill seems to be a step forward, since the article of its 32nd provides that the government will deny the previous consent depending on the assessment of the justification of each individual initiative. What are these justifications, and which will be managed by the government, it remains unclear to the citizens, it remains here and we are unclear. There is not even any obstacle to the government’s decision by giving its opinion on any particular initiative or demand, but then it is clear, we are always talking about the transparency of good governance and good governance to be precisely these criteria because it is no problem to make them transparent and then disown all of those possible objections of political nature, and in addition to that, we are suppressing those initiatives that are unwarranted. If the law taxed when the government would deny its opinion, then I mean such initiatives some small, poor settlements really have no excuse to become municipalities. In this way, where I, and this is given to read from this proposal, is denied, so they are not classified as the possibility of new settlements becoming municipalities, and on the other hand allows some, poor people living at the expense of neighbouring settlements and developing, or surviving at the expense of these more developed, some sort of a contaminant and inability to compete and compete among the settlements themselves, not only to expect support or assistance from the central government. So such a message should be sent to our citizens on their own to those who are also in power in certain units of local self-government. Unfortunately, such a message is not read from here, and if I were to consciously consider some amendments, then a lot of things would be improved regardless of the fact that we unfortunately have no other reading but rather a final proposal. And one more thing. I think that here and that there was really a reason for the proposal to go to another reading, because the issue of borders and the establishment of borders between municipalities, or cities, is one big problem that lasts for years and dissatisfaction is large citizens, and ultimately the consequences are always suffered by citizens from the municipality or the city who want to establish, or have proposed to establish their borders. I have to say that these procedures exactly and due to lack of teamwork lasts long, lasts too long, lasts for years. However, this bill does not improve the situation in this sense so that the problem remains that sometimes it is easier to establish interstate borders than the borders between the two neighbouring municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34476	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 20 more MPs and MPs on this agenda. I would suggest that we stop the debate now, that at 3:00 we vote on all those discussed points, and that this debate, the continuation of the debate on this agenda point, will be on Tuesday, with the fact that it is very certain that this bill too, since the proposal is one committee, will go into two readings. So I think we stop the debate now, get ready for the vote, the key will be for everyone who has so that we can continue at 15 hours with the vote and delay... And next, the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić, is Nenad Stazic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At 15 o'clock vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34477	We're moving on with the session. And we continue with the agenda point, the final draft law on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Emergency procedure, first and second reading. Resumption of the debate. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34478	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I warmly welcome you all to the opening of this week's session of the Croatian Parliament. Today is March 22nd, and besides the international day of water it is 52 days or so, we still have 52 days before there will be local elections. So not 52 days before there will be a local election we unfortunately don't even know by what law these elections are going to take place. We don't know what the geometry of the electoral units will be or how many units of local self-government will be. And what a place for them will be where their seats will be, and where their limits will be. And in the end we don't even know what powers those units of local self-government will have because these two laws are in the process. One is an emergency procedure, one is in first reading, and one of the key laws is therefore the Law on Elections is even withdrawn from the procedure. We don't even know when that law will be returned. What was correct for citizens is that enough time before the election is called, so not before the election, but before the election is called, they know all these things. So they should be familiar with the units and the municipalities and the cities they live in and will vote for, to be familiar with the rules by which these elections will take place. And to be finally aware of what will be the powers of the local self-government units in which they will live. And that simply in view of the weight of the duties that the heads of the local self-government units or the headships will exercise, they will then assign their trust. We are today discussing one of the most important laws that is the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and so today is the continuation of the debate and it is certain that this law will not be passed today. It is certain that we will probably not vote on it tomorrow. It's not until April 1st that we vote on it. The law states that the law will enter the 8th day of its publication in the National Journal. So if it is announced on April 1st when there is a vote, so in the National paper with that date, it will enter into force on 8 April. That's 37 days before the election. Or seven days before the local election. Now I'm asking all of you if we're going to vote for that law, so, who we're going to be responsible for bringing it, we're confident that the citizens in those seven days will become all clear. TO make it clear to those who will live in new municipalities to live in new municipalities, and that they will have to solve their problems. And those who will no longer live in these municipalities, where cities or municipalities will become smaller, have made them aware that there will be a different fiscal capacity as well as obligations and other things. Therefore, it remains only 7 days to solve all technical issues in those 7 days such as questions about the headquarters of the local self-government unit, so to determine where the local self-government unit is based with an exact address. Not with where the seat is. To everything else that's important to us, that when the citizens go to the polls, they know what community they're voting for at least. And we can even separate there, then two problems or two examples, we have one part of the municipalities that is emerging, which has passed through the procedure, and probably where it will be easier for citizens to become aware that they are in a new municipality to choose a new chief, that the seat of the municipality will be in another building. And that he will solve his problems in another place. However, we have a part of the municipalities that is formed beyond any procedure, so, which is created by the government's will, which is not known at all, whether today will be voted on. In the end, it is not known what fiscal capacity these municipalities will be, and will at all be able to meet all those needs that citizens expect to address in their unit of local self-government. Unfortunately, I have to realize that some of these municipalities are contrary to some rules and the opposite of the law. Because even if the whole law is amended and in this new law rules are prescribed how some unit of local self-government can arise. It's not quite well defined here because it turns out that whoever comes to the disolution is not asking him anything but just asking the county congregation. But at least he's wondering about the county council. Unfortunately, we have a situation where there are municipalities in this law that no one has asked for any opinion, for which we have no calculations or indicators of what this new municipality is. So you have, for example, a new Vrsi municipality that is created by the disolution of the city of Nin where all those in the city of Nin are against Vrsi being created to create a new Vrsi municipality. On this we have no indication nor citizens of the city of Nin, we have no indication of the city council we have no indication of the county assembly, we have no opinion of the Ministry of Finance on fiscal capacity for the municipality. But it's still a community. Now the question is who will be responsible if that municipality or another municipality will not be able to meet all the interests and needs that citizens expect of this. Because of these things, I suggest that the Proposer withdraws this law from the procedure. Because I don't think we've left enough time for citizens to be aware of what this law offers them and what is being solved I am in order to meet the demands and needs of citizens if they want to establish new units of local self-government. In addition, you have an example in Europe of countries where there are large units of local self-government, hence a smaller number, and on the other hand you have countries where there are a large number of small units of local self-government. So this is a question not of some kind of political theory, but simply of some kind of political practice or consensus within a particular state. We have clearly decided at this point that there are a large number of small units of local self-government in Croatia, and if that is the case, it should be supported. But on the other hand, it is necessary to define what units of local self-government must be able to solve and how to address certain citizens' problems. We need to figure out how these local self-government units are gonna work out, but then those rules apply to everyone. They also apply to citizens as initiators, apply to representative bodies as initiators but also to the government as a proposing because here the Government cannot put itself in a position of authority in relation to anyone else and the Government is the only authorised promoter as well as a third of the citizens as well as a representative body. The only one who can have a different position is this Parliament who actually passed that law. But in order for us to pass the law, we need to know on what basis we are voting on and whether the units of local self-government that are created meet all those criteria that should be met and whether they can solve what they need to solve? And finally, what are citizens' views on these new units of local self-government? The second thing I want to say in the end, and in the end, my colleague, Perusko and I have submitted the amendment, is that one, a tipfeller or a little more tipfeler in the municipality of Tarvar Care, where only two settlements were enrolled in that new municipality, not six settlements as defined by the project, because this, the proposal for the municipality passed the whole procedure. So the opinion of the City Council of Poreč and the Istrian County passed, and we have the Ministry of Finance's position and we have the government's position that ultimately supports it. So we propose that my colleague, Peru, and I, separate the settlements of Frata, Gedici, Perci and Roshini from the town of Poreč, and that these four settlements be registered as Tar Vabriga, the new municipalities formed by this new bill. Because otherwise it makes no sense to set up a new municipality because these four settlements are an integral part, so the whole of that new municipality is connected. So I propose that the Government adopt this amendment and ultimately intervene with its own amendment in order to meet the requirement that exists and which, unlike the Vrsi Municipality, has passed the whole procedure. But I think it would be best at this point if this law were to withdraw and leave enough time for a new territorial organisation in the Republic of Croatia of the municipalities, cities and counties and enough time for citizens to get to know what is new to come so that they can go to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34479	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Three things I think should be analysed in this bill, it's the government's attitude towards itself, the government's attitude towards the profession and the government's attitude towards the citizens. The government's first attitude towards itself and its views. We are already used to Prime Minister Sanader changing his views depending on whether he is in opposition or in power. But Prime Minister Sanader is changing his attitudes while he's in power, and that's the fact that we're just gonna have to get used to. Namely, Prime Minister Sanader signs the government's opinion. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the establishment of a new municipality, some there. The government of the Republic of Croatia points out that in principle it opposes the establishment of new municipalities, since it believes that the decapitated municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry out the tasks planned to be transferred to them by decentralisation. That's what Prime Minister Sanader signed on 1 April 2004. A year later, Prime Minister Sanader offered this bill and proposed 10 new municipalities. Citizens are confused that Prime Minister Sanader is supporting the establishment of 10 new municipalities or he is opposed to establishing new municipalities. He's signing both papers. Who knows what the government's position is now? So much for the government's relationship to itself. Second. The government's relationship to the profession. The Honorable State Secretary has proudly pointed out here that the position of the profession is not the government's position and yet said that the position of the profession is not an argument that would be interesting here at all in this debate. We are also used to what the government's attitude towards the profession is, with dozens, hundreds of decisions on resolution and the appointments of new officials. The other day when we discussed and discussed SDP's Proposal for a Law on the National Park Kopački rit we had the opportunity to see what the government's attitude towards the profession was in that memo that that representative of the "Croatian Forests" directed to the Croatian Assembly where he told the World Environment Fund that these were eco-imperalists and the Green Mafia. And this one certainly came to that place because someone who was an expert had been removed. Because otherwise, you couldn't have gotten there like that. And I'm surprised at all, I'm even surprised at the ministry's experts, at the state administration to dare write professional articles and publish them in professional publications because they're seriously at the risk of being chased out of the state service and to bring in someone else who won't deal with writing professional articles and to publish them in professional newspapers because the government says that professional argument is not an argument. What does the waist say? She says it's an irrationally large number of local self-government units. And what does the government say? The government says we don't care what the waist says, we propose nine new ones. What are the reasons why the government is doing exactly that? Are those rational reasons? Obviously not because we can't find them. I don't care about local self-government, obviously not. Well, then, which is why the government itself thinks it shouldn't be in April last year that new municipalities should not be established with the proposed nine new municipalities. What's the reason? The reason is known to everyone. He's obvious. He's white. It's pre-election engineering. It's finding pockets a little stronger HDZ support and then turning those pockets into municipalities, so the election results will be a little bit better than they would be if they didn't. That it was pre-election engineering and the State Secretary's statement about a set of laws he said, "the people will know it in the elections". It is Palardic's statement, so he will probably recognise it and reward the government's and HDZ's statements on this kind of activity. Clean proof that this is a single-engineering project with the purpose of making HDZ's election results better. Look, we have municipalities in Croatia who don't have that kind of money to pay their salaries to their clerks, they don't. We have such poor cities as Imotski, in which however, the mayor buys Mercedes for 800 thousand kuna, not his, municipal, municipal, city and city poor. And we're actually in a situation where when a community is founded, however, when someone wants to be a municipal mayor or mayor there and when they find a good relationship in the government, then they realize it. Because in these amendments, no longer needs the opinion of the Local Self-Government Unit Council. Mr. Palaric said he doesn't need a mediator between the government and the people. It reminds me of a statement by Alexander Karadjordjevic, which he abolished parliament with. Why would he need an intercessor between the king and the people? Now, Mr. Palaric argues there is no need for a government mediator between her and the people, the government will handle it best with the people. And who is this middleman? Well, it's those councils. So whoever sits in those councils, then those who are citizens are chosen. But now the government doesn't need their opinion anymore. Well, it's like they're giving you their personal opinions in those councils. So they represent the attitudes of the citizens who chose them. But no, Vladi doesn't need that. Well, clearly, she doesn't need it if it's meant to be pre-election engineering. Then clearly she doesn't need it. Why would she need that? It just complicates her things. See, the criteria would have to be the financial potential of the municipality in the first place, and thus could be seen which municipalities could remain, which could not survive. There has to be one unique criterion. Communities that do not have the financial potential to be municipalities should join some other municipalities and that would be the only rational, only logical. We have 549 municipalities and towns and 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb. I think we could start dealing with questions if that's all we need in such a large number. Do we even need 20 counties? Or maybe they'd be enough 4-5 in the form of some regions. Of course, I don't mean to suggest to the government that tomorrow come up with such a solution, but let's open up a public hearing about it. We're not a particularly big country, let's see what concept of local self-government we're going to develop, and whether we're going to get this curtailed that way, maybe it costs too much, maybe it's irrational to track down that debate and get us to a rational, good solution. This hastily in mind, and before the election, it wouldn't be good if it went through, and here's a suggestion to the government, let's take it back now, let's wait for the local elections to pass, then come forward, you'll be more convincing in every argument and we'll have a little bit more time, you know, until the next local elections are four years, and we'll have time to discuss all these issues in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34481	Thank you. Before the government's representative, we have three corrections to an incorrect allegation. First is Agent Niko Rebic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34482	Mr. Vice President, in fact, thinking and what Mr. Stazic is saying about the government is simply not true. I could agree that he has something of his own opinion, but that from this government all those who have their own expert opinion that they're being fired and shagging doesn't just stand there. In fact, it seems to me that all those experts who have a different opinion than Mr. Stazic about Kopački rit, they actually, in fact, humiliate them and their opinion. This government is actually what I'd like to stress, and when it comes to this law, I have to say. The correction is that all experts from this government can freely express their expert opinions and will not suffer any consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34483	That's also an opinion. Fortunately, the government doesn't decide. This is where we vote MPs. We must vote against the government's proposal. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Darko Milinovic, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34484	Obviously, we heard an election speech from a respected representative of Stazic, but I must correct one of your findings that the mayor of Imotsky bought a car worth 800 thousand kuna. I have to correct you, he has made the decision of the City Council of Imotski, a unanimous decision where, interestingly, four members of the SDP voted in favour of the decision. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34485	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Agent Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34486	Mr. Vice President in a series of incorrect allegations, it is incorrect that the new municipalities and cities that are proposed are electoral engineering. It's just not true. The proposal was set up and came from people who wanted to. We want to further develop our local administration and self-government, and the goal is precisely to form new electoral units. Electoral engineering is something else, first of all some coalitions that have nothing to do with either head or tail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34487	Thank you very much. State Secretary, Mr Anton Palarić, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34488	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll look back on just some allegations that are essentially incorrect and some thesis that accuse the government of disrespecting the profession, because there's no listening to an official who writes on an arbitrary charge for a conditional journal. Mr. Mršić accused the government directly of proposing the establishment of the Vrsi municipality without any elaborates. I can tell you that the Government has a citizens' initiative with 913 signatures of adult citizens, Vrsi and Poljic with the conclusion of the City Council of the City of Nin on the separation of Vrsi and Poljic from the composition of the city of Nin and the establishment of a new municipality since 11 February 2003 and positive. The conclusion of the Zadar County Assembly of 11 April 2003 positive. Financial elaborate. The opinion is by the Ministry of Finance contained in the vote by the finance minister in the government, the finance ministry expert in the government's expert working groups and co-ordination. So there's more to it than there is to it. It is true that I have said that the government opposes the feud of Croatia, that the thesis is imposed that this House could not change the law or that the government would propose it without asking for an opinion, and I would say that some are seeking the consent of the representative body, so a council of municipalities, and on the other hand, when citizens address the city council then speculate, the answer is avoided, as in some of which I look back on Friday at the debate said that several places awaiting the city council's statement because it avoids responding to citizens, and there is no power to tell citizens we are against it. It is true that the Croatian newspapers are reporting from a meeting of the government that lasted a few hours at which I have explained three laws concerning local self-government and where I have spoken perhaps an hour about everything proposed and the debate lasted about half an hour where everyone from the prime minister to Minister Suker was involved, where in a joke I responded to the prime minister's point that Shuker probably took part in the draft law on local self-government where big cities were spoken of, since according to our proposal and Velika Gorica would be the city, so I also told him in a joke that he would probably appreciate it in the local elections, but that's not really the point. The point is that local self-government is being upgraded and that it is better for everyone and I refuse to accept that this is about electoral engineering because this proposal respects initiatives proposed over the past year and two months by various promoters, and by representative Markov and SDP representatives, so all that we have estimated to have a future, that it can contribute to the development of local self-government, we have installed in this proposal. Our officers are free to write what they will and they write each other today, tomorrow, it's important that someone publishes and approves it, and no one has left the central state office because it's supposed to be all the people who've been working with me since I was 95, and they're in the same places today. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34489	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34490	Dear Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect that the secretary of state said that the government had accepted all the initiatives, that that is so, so you mentioned it... precisely by pointing out the alleged representative Mrsic. This is not because you have failed to satisfy the most justified and fairest demand of citizens' initiative, the locals of Zaton, who among all of this you have listed as Vrsi, therefore those basic formal and legal assumptions have a far stronger infrastructure and achieves over half a million nights and nothing returns to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34491	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Zdenko Antesic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my presentation, I will look a little bit more at why the Lopar community initiative is a Lopar community for the establishment of the Lopar municipality, i.e. the request of the initiative committee for the detachment of Lopar from the town of Rab and the establishment of the municipality of Lopar formally invalid. THE request for an opinion on the allocation of Lopar from the composition of the town of Rab and the establishment of an independent municipality of the Lopar and associated documents annexed to the request, which was submitted by the initiative committee to the City of Rab, the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski County, the central state administration office and the Croatian Parliament, was established for 20 months from the date of completion of the collection of the signatures of the citizens of Lopar who supported the initiative, which was on 1 April 2003, until the date of the request in question, dated 5 December 2004. Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia provides for a procedure for the establishment of new units of local self-government so that Article 30 The proposed law requires that an opinion be obtained between the other body and the representative body. The cited provisions set out the procedure but did not set a time limit within which the representative bodies of the local self-government unit as proposing changes to the area or the headquarters of the units of local self-government and the establishment of new units of local self-government are obliged to adopt an opinion requested if the citizens' proposings are. There is also no deadline within which citizens are obliged to submit a concrete request to the representative body of the units of local self-government asking for an opinion on the initiative launched after they have concluded the collection of the signatures of citizens who support their initiative. The following question is raised where the actions described should be taken within a reasonable period of time to ensure that the applicant's request to change the area or headquarters of units of local self-government and the establishment of new units of local self-government is legally valid. It was precisely because of those objections by letter dated 28 January 2005, that the city of Rab addressed the Central State Administration Office, expressing its view that the three-month deadline for all opinions to be adopted at the request of the applicant and the deadline within which citizens as proposings are obliged to submit a concrete request to the representative body of the local self-government unit after completing the collection of the signatures of citizens who support their initiative. In its opinion that the 20-month period from the date of the conclusion, the collection of citizens' signatures supporting a particular initiative until the date on which this initiative is specifically submitted to the competent representative body of the units of local self-government for decision-making. As is the case with the request of the initiative board for the separation of the place of shovel from the town of Rab, and the establishment of the municipality of Lopar is by no means a reasonable time-limit for the taking of the mentioned action, and the town of Rab has stated that the application by the citizens of Lopar contains a significant deficit in terms of the deadline, and that, therefore, until the removal of the same representative body, it is not required to make the application in question manifest. In this regard, he proposed to the Central State Office for precisely that, for that reason, he reject the application for the detachment of Lopar from the ingredients of the city of Rab, i.e. by means of his opinion, it is apparent that the above-mentioned doubts which are imposed as an earlier question in a specific case. On this note, we prove that the request of the part of the citizens of Lopar for the establishment of the municipality is not legally valid and that it has also been delivered to the Croatian Assembly, and the County Assembly, and the initiative committee of the citizens of the central state administration until today did not show what we consider inadmissible because we appreciate that the request for the separation of a settlement from the town's composition, and the establishment of a new municipality is not only a question of the will of the citizens, which is already supported by such an initiative, but it is also about influencing the rights of citizens and settlements and of the city that have the opposite opinion. According to the following, it is inadmissible to include in the legal procedure an initiative which has undoubtedly been found to be legally invalid, which, in the event of the law being passed, may have inconceivable, political, economic, sociological, and inescapable consequences for the island of Rab, as I remind the city of Rab is one small island community. The establishment of a new municipality on such a small historical legal and economically connected island, i.e. the city, such as Rab, would be contrary to the constitutional principle of economicity and efficiency in the conduct of the local district affairs which directly meet the needs of citizens, i.e. in the case of the eventual establishment of a new municipality, it would not have a material or humane basis for the implementation of the constitution and the law established by the local district, which specifically relate to the arrangement of settlements and housing, spatial urban planning, municipal activities, child care, social care, primary health care, education and primary education, culture, etc. As regards the establishment and concept of the municipality, it should be reiterated that the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in Article 3 provides that municipalities, cities and counties are established by law and, in Article 4, the municipality defines itself as a unit of local self-government, which is established as a rule for the area of a number of inhabited areas which represent a natural, economic and social whole and which are linked to the common interests of the population. In the event that the initiative of the works of the citizens of Lopar ends with the establishment of a new municipality, it would be an exception because it would only include Lopar. Although there are already 35 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia established for the area of one settlement, it should be noted that all municipalities that have been established for the area of more than 21 settlements in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar area are therefore the exception in this case. It is apparent from the previous that when establishing new municipalities, it is necessary to take care of the economic possibilities of the future municipality to carry out the Constitution and the law of established local district jobs which have not been demonstrated in the establishment of the municipality of Lopar, and does not take into account the human resources as well as the number of inhabitants. According to the 2001 census, the village of Lopar had 1199 inhabitants, and of the total of 8 settlements in the town of Rab, as many as 4 settlements per census from 2001 have more inhabitants than the village of Lopar. I further note that since 1990, Lopar has been invested in the town, which is about 36 million kuna from the county and state budget and is the only settlement on Rab that has solved modern sewerage, and a new main water supply pipeline. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Central State Administration Office in its programming documents, advocates real decentralisation, and is opposed to an irrational increase in the number of units of local self-government, while, on the other hand, it puts the Law which again proposes the establishment of new municipalities that have neither materially nor human resources to fulfil their constitutional and legal obligations, and in the case of a concrete proposal to establish the Municipality of Lopar, in addition to that, is also about putting into the legal procedure of a legally invalid initiative. Why is this a legally invalid initiative? The relevant law correctly defines that the proposer for the establishment of new municipalities of local self-government must obtain the opinion of the competent representative body from which the new units are to be set up. Then the opinion of the County Assembly and the agreement of the Minister of Finance. The applicant did not obtain this, and not for the reason of deafness of the representative body, but for the reason of the deafness of the central state administration office which did not answer the previous question of the unit of local self-government, which was addressed within a reasonable period of time in the Office on the legal validity of the initiative, because the deadline of almost two years was unreasonable, which was expected to be put into practice by such an initiative. Within almost two years, there have been a number of changes in the political, economic and general social sense both in the city of Rab and in the Republic of Croatia, so it cannot be claimed with certainty that a citizen who supported a particular initiative in March 2003 would support the same signature in November or December 2004. Therefore, the time mentioned above loses credibility and legal validity, and in the meantime many signatories of the initiative died or moved away. It should also be reminded of some of the historical initiatives that I had made in the previous speech, which is in 1938 when due to the conflict between the supporters of Stoidinovic's party and some ambitious individuals are also encouraged to...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34493	Finish it, Mr. Representative, finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34494	I'm done, thank you. And this initiative ended in 1940 by the Royal Deputy repealing that order to establish two municipalities and bringing them together into one municipality, because in the meantime so many impatient relations and the inability to function in these municipalities. Well, I hope that doesn't happen again on Rab. And I'm asking the honourable representatives to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34495	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Irena Ahel, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34496	Here in several incorrect allegations I would correct the one where Mr. Antešić says there is no municipality in the Republic of Croatia that represents only one settlement. There is also in the Republic of Croatia, and there is also in the Primorje-Gorski County. It is also incorrect that the initiative is illegal and illegal. It is a fully legitimate initiative for the establishment of the municipality of Lopar. It is completely legitimate and expresses the long-standing insistence of the citizens of Lopar for their own self-government. And we have more examples on the islands, where there are more municipalities and more cities, where they work very well, and what happened during the Roman Empire, I think it's unnecessary to discuss at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34497	Thank you. Let's move on. Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Mr. Representative Anton Perusko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34498	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The right to local self-government is guaranteed to citizens by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because it is clear that in addition to the global problems that citizens expect to solve central government, citizens are certainly life-longly interested in improving the quality of life in their homeland, their municipality, their city or their county, and that is the fact that all MPs in this House are in some way pushing for the prosperity of their end. According to the constitutional definition of the local self-government unit, they carry out local activities that directly meet their needs for better quality life, settlements, housing, education, health care, child care, social care, etc. The key question is for me at this point and for the past little over 10 years. The fact that we live in a country where 92% of all tax revenues are poured into the state budget, in a country where 4% of tax revenues accumulate in the city of Zagreb, and 4% of tax revenues remain for all around 450 and so many local self-government units, including regional ones. I think that's a key problem. And the decentralisation of the state it started, but not the completion of the coalition government is necessary. In the initial adoption of the Law on the establishment of units of local self-government there sometime before the local elections in 93, the areas of these units were drawn on the political map of Croatia as an expression of the political will of the then HDZ government, which in many cases led by a political assessment of party profitability by the municipalities and cities. The truth of that profit was not in Istria. But some of the illogicalities were worth correcting over time. The truth is that only by passing the law has been faced in the past 10 years that corrections have been made, but it has always been about creating new and new units of local self-government and it is really a question as far as it can go. In the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the Law, I will refer only to the proposal which is related to the 8th constituency involving Istria and part of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. By sort of absorbing data that 83% of all tax revenues are accumulated in 10 cities and 2 municipalities in Istria. All other 29 units of local self-government accumulate only 17% of tax revenues. And therefore, Istria is an atypical example compared to other parts of Croatia. I would like to say that, in other parts of Croatia, there are even more illogicalities, and these proposals for the formation of new units are potentiating. In this proposal, there are, for the amendment of this Act, a proposal for 9 new municipalities, four of which are in the area of the 8th constituency unit where I come from, and two of the Istrian Tar Vabriga for which the proposal was the Club of Representatives of the SDP in the 4th month of the past year, and the Government rejected it with an explanation quoted by a colleague, Nenad Stazic, I will not repeat it. However, the fact is that the proposal contained all the elements prescribed by the legislator, which is a sufficient number of citizens' signatures, the positive opinion of the City Council of Poreč, the positive opinion of the County of Istria and the projection of the budget of some 8.8 billion kunas and if the data that was brought here one day to be carried out there in the area and the future municipalities achieves about nearly a million and a half tourist nights, it is certain that I will vote for the new municipality of Tar Vabriga because it has all the elements that make up the municipality and all the procedures have been carried out. As counterpart Mršić said, the amendment has tried to correct one mistake that I hope the government will accept when these four settlements have been released so that I do not repeat them now. In the Municipality of Funtana, too, I will respect the will of citizens, although not all of those elements that the proposal must contain exist here. The government has decided on this municipality and I will also respect the will of citizens especially for the reasons that the municipality of Funtana certainly has all the elements and budgetary and all others so that an independent municipality can be successful, even though Vrsar municipality has made significant progress. I have to ask myself that in addition to these coastal municipalities and towns that are at sea there are close by, and in the hinterland of these municipalities in Istria, for example, to list only some villages, one Fling, one Gradina, one Kufci, etc. And where they belong. The Municipality of St. Lovrec. Those who come from that region know what I'm talking about, and we'll really have to ask ourselves one day what is wrong with the even development and development of Istria in its entirety. However, regardless of all this, I support the establishment of these two Istrian municipalities for the reasons that I have stated because it is the will of the citizens and because there are all the elements that make them just to be independent municipalities. I see it in the neighboring county of my VIII. The election unit notsens which I find unimaginable about the Vindol municipality but I will not talk about it more extensively, colleagues Linic and Biserka Perman have submitted amendments, so they will dispel it but I will take the right to speak a few words as a seaman by profession about this illogicality that suggests the establishment of the Lopar municipality a truly whole is broken down needlessly. I know that the Adriatic islands, the Adriatic our Croatian pearls, are different, the difference is one Cres or one Krk from Rab, Pag, Hvar etc. On Hvar it is possible and logical and well functioning as much as I know more local units. But you see what we did with Pag, for example. Four units of local self-government and divided it into two counties. These are some negative examples that will, in my deep conviction, reflect very negatively on this situation regarding the City of Rab, or the island of Rab, which is indeed a unique whole by establishing this new municipality of Lopar. And I think that all opposition MPs will respect these arguments, which among other things has been made by the mayor of counterpart Antesic and that we will vote for an amendment proposing to delete the new municipality. And to conclude, when it comes to Istria next to this amendment that I submitted with my colleague Mršić, I also submitted an amendment, supported by my colleague, Poropat, for the village of Mržiste from the municipality of Krsan in the municipality of St. Sunday and today I submitted another amendment to the settlement of Valbandon, which became an independent settlement and was published in the official newspaper of the Istrian County, so when it is already going to change the law to then respect these logical amendments which I consider to be purely technical in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34499	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go. Excuse me, there's a replica before that. Niko Rebic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34500	Well, I'm going to replicate to Mr. Perusk because he's going by the the thesis that the entire local structure is new in Croatia, that he's composed himself as the wish of HDZ, or that HDZ has formed all cities and municipalities according to its kind of political. That's just not true. What is important is that this new local structure has produced great results in the construction of these units of local self-government but of course it should be measured and I agree that no law, with this I agree that no law that should be measured cannot be reached so many units of local self-government and only pass the law when we want to legalise what it is. So, it's interesting, Mr. Peru, and you've been in a position and your authority has been doing nothing for four years but setting up new municipalities and when I submitted an initiative to get one unit of local self-government added to a larger unit didn't go through then. You today, we all agree that too many units of local self-government. The right law should respond to the criteria on which units of local self-government would be established and thus indeed serve citizens rather than establish units of local self-government. You're raising your hand today for two more new ones, and then when it's determined they don't have the money, then finance them from the state budget. I think it's bad, and we're all politicizing here that we should turn politics around and actually force, we deputies to force the government to finally make such a law and such criteria that will meet this moment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34501	Thank you very much. Mr. Peru's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely do not deny the fact that the new territorial structure has won and the positive results of a number of small places that were previously in Istria under the City of Pula, for example, have blossomed by the establishment of smaller municipalities, resonally established municipalities, and I do not deny it, so I agree with you. However, the fact is that both you and the current government and the former is aware that it is time to ask the question as far as it can go and what all this is going on, whether these new units that are being founded everywhere are justifiable and I think you'll agree with me that there are a lot of examples where there are no. And the fact that they are drawn by the political will of the HDZ government then, that's for sure. I could, for example, give you Istria exactly where you and two villages that belong territorially to one municipality cannot reach them but through the territory of another unit of local self-government but I know exactly what they were brought into it and which people named there are more and by the way to tell you that they are party members of your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34503	Thank you. Here, I apologize, Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34504	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So here, a little bit of talking, after the formation of a large number of cities, we remember as early as 1993, many were against establishing new cities, new municipalities, and there were really important changes in the territorial structure, there were painful separations, there were new municipalities, and we remember that a number of municipalities got the status of the city. So then it went and eventually it turned out to be a lot of that good. Amendments and additions to the laws took place all the following years because parts of the area, the municipalities, belonged to other municipalities and cities and were restored to those years and new municipalities. There have been largely no problems with the implementation of procedures, changes in the area of cities and municipalities, where the counties respected and approved the proposals of representative bodies or one third of the citizens of the area concerned. There were probably deliberate delays, there were finally some negative solutions, but in the end, in most cases, it worked out. And what we've been putting off over the past few months has finally come to order now. The greatest responsibility seems to me to belong to the Ministry of Finance because it must assess the sufficient resources to finance all the obligations of the units of local self-government prescribed by clearly special law. It would be good for the Ministry of Finance to make a quality display of the credits and existing cities and municipalities and their opportunities just for funding. So let's see who can end up funding himself, who is being helped by a country where these assets are being spent and so on, maybe we'd be a lot easier to talk to today about new municipalities. Many units of local self-government remain and function well thanks to quality laws in mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of special state concern. A lot of people wouldn't have worked much worse without those funds. In particular, since 93, I have defended the justification for the efforts of numerous units of local self-government, as huge progress has been made especially in building infrastructure and improving the quality of life of the local population. I think the final proposal should have contributed to the list of new municipalities, we know for a fact, we hear it from our colleagues, but I think it would be good if it were particularly prominent. Clearly, to better monitor the trend of accepted changes. With great attention, this is of particular interest to me, we will also follow the proposal of the Municipality of Island to obtain the status of the city. Because I believe in a shorter period that the Municipality of St. Sunday, therefore my municipality with its 17 thousand inhabitants and great natural potential will also make a similar request. In the Proposal for a Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Bill, we took a look at a little more articles than 25. - 38th, I think they're well engaged. They are clear and will contribute to a faster and simpler process for changing the territory of units of local self-government. However, today we see from all these discussions that there are a whole series of municipalities that fit into this. I don't understand one thing from everything. In what way to stop this further trend, do you need this petty detour, now the municipality, by which criteria, do you ever say no, and here I think, however, to go back to what I said earlier that the Ministry of Finance should have a decisive word. Finally, all those who are initiating the creation of new municipalities, first of all the municipalities I speak, should bear responsibility, and I believe that responsibility is very important, and what if it fails, then in all that, if any return. Then, we talked further, which is with municipalities that, consisting of a few hundred people who can't really survive, do we really just let them change their minds, eventually return to some unit, fit in here and there, or really here should the government and finally the government's proposal and we all somehow give the last word to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34505	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34506	Mr. Vice President, sir, surely, I will quote you, you have said that the biggest responsibility lies with the Ministry of Finance for decision-making on the status of cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and that is because they multiply every day but many cities and municipalities, especially in the mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of special state care, could not survive without co-financing through a bill addressed to one and another, and this would happen in the areas of the Imot City as a city and municipalities, 8 municipalities of the Imot region. Well, the responsibility lies with Mr. colleagues and the mayors, i.e. the mayors, so I will say what is said here today with the right to say that City Councilors of the City of Imotski have made a decision to buy a vehicle for the mayor, i.e. for the city of Imotski but not for 800 thousand kuna, always says modesty is a virtue, but in this case it was not a modesty of virtue so the mayor of Imotski and others who co-determined about such an expensive vehicle to visit their kindergarten Imotić and will see where they were wrong and the mistake is great.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34507	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34508	But with us without... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34509	Thank you very much, thank you very much. It's Mrs. Bisserka Perman's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34510	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this Law increases the number of units of local self-government by 9 new units of which are two new municipalities in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. The establishment of new units of local self-government raises doubts that their financial potential, as well as the financial potential of damaged units in the future, will not be sufficient to carry out the tasks they have been given by law in power. Further vaccination of units of local self-government also creates a risk of slower economic development of the units that are being split because, as a rule, units with smaller budgets can only be provided with additional funding through various support from the county budget, i.e. the state budget, which is inevitably being maintained to other units. I join all those who have expressed doubts about their financial potential and do not support the establishment of units of local self-government consisting of several settlements or villages, not to say street with a total of several hundred inhabitants, even independently of their connection as a whole, which will soon show if this bill is adopted. In accordance with this debate, my colleague Linic and I have submitted two amendments to the proposed text of the Law on which we will say more in the light of the debate on amendments to this Act. One applies, one amendment refers to the eradication of the new municipality of Vinodol, which we also have an indication of the congregation of the Primorje-Gorski County and the other to the transfer of three settlements from the city of Opatija to the municipality of Lovran. The framework programme of decentralisation during this term of office provides for the finding of the modes of compulsory association of cities and municipalities, insufficient financial potential to create the basis for them to successfully carry out jobs and projects of common interest beyond their individual, financial opportunities. On the contrary, this Law establishes new units without the consent of the local self-government units to which they belonged, moreover, their opinion is not even required. Nor is the county consent required, and the congregation’s statement in Article 31 is not binding, so it is neither relevant nor necessary, even though changes are taking place in their territory. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide on the justification of any initiative to establish a new unit of local self-government and no specific indication of the Ministry of Finance on the proposal for a source of funding for all its commitments or the financial potential of the new unit is provided. The practical example of this practice is already taking place in this Bill proposal in Article 11, which, as I mentioned earlier, provides for the establishment of the Vinodol municipality, by detachment from the current Vinodol municipality despite the negative and arguments of the supported manifestation of the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly. Such a solution, such a legal solution points to a new kind of centralisation of the state as it turns out that the entire territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia will be decided exclusively on Mark's square No. 2. If moreover, a known principle of similarity turns out that the ruling party or coalition at the state level within units of local or regional self-government in which local elections are lost will be able to establish a new local unit consisting of a place or village in which the party or coalition has received majority voter support regardless of the objective possibilities and resources of such a formation. It turns out that the existing solution in this section is better than now proposed. And finally, I would like to refer to Mr. Secretary of State Anthony Palaric's opening statement. On Friday, he said in his statement that such a legal solution, I quote, "This is the legal solution that we do not want intermediaries between citizens and the government." King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, in 1929 when he disbanded the assembly and introduced the Oktroiran Constitution to do so because he no longer wants a mediator between himself and his people and thus introduced a dictatorship in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and fully centralized the state. Furthermore, Mr. Palaric said changes to the settlements are being introduced, changes to the name of the settlement where there really has been a change of settlements, the eradication of settlements that have ceased to exist as independent and the introduction of new settlements that have been created in the meantime as independent settlements. If this was to be updated, I wonder what was the mentioned municipality of Pribislavec in Article 23 of the County of Međimurje? What kind of settlements are these? Pribislavec and Pribislavec and m.o. Roma settlement? He also said that this law needs to be passed in order to carry out local elections. It's simply not true because we all know that local elections have been conducted so far without this very bad law to me. For all the sake of what I have said here in this form, I will not be able to support this Law but to join my colleagues and our Committee who have recommended that this be the first reading of the Law so that the final text would indeed be better quality based on all these discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34511	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Frano Piploic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34512	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, there are arguments in some colleagues that the government has actually violated some legal provisions and has referred to the procedure of requests of individual local communities or individual settlements to seek the status of municipalities. There may be such cases, but in the case of Podvnja, which is now an integral part of the town of Slavonski Brod, that is not the case. Three years ago, I said in my debate a few days ago, three years ago, the citizens asked the mayor to listen to their requests, to discuss all the circumstances that forced the citizens to apply for a part of the settlement to seek the status of the municipality. The clear mayor did not respond until today, but he had the courage to send you all parliamentary representatives a memo and to explain to you how that part of the settlement could not be a municipality. This example actually shows the way the law is played and how the will of the citizens is played. The mayor of Slavonski Brod and some other mayors who did not respond to their citizens should actually be held responsible for why, not just politically, some other criminal responsibility why they disobeyed the will, about citizens? Why didn't the citizens respond to their initiative, to their inquiry? And now that things get to the government, it's actually the government's fault why she let it go, let it go in the process? It seems to me that there are individuals who are scaring their citizens with the Parliament and the Government as if the Croatian government and this Croatian Parliament are the "grandmother horns" that should now be feared by Croatian citizens. To say more, put forward here, some criteria have been set out regarding the financial potential of the municipalities. If this were to be an exclusive criterion to give our consent that the requirements of certain settlements would be respected and become a municipality, then in fact, a large number of existing municipalities would not have the possibility of being municipalities. I remember back in 1993 when the new structure of the administration, local administration and self-government began, so let's say in the area of the then Slavonski Brod municipality almost 90% of the municipalities took the agrocombinate "Jasile" that it was the foundation of their economy. The "Jasile" agrocombinate has spread, problems everywhere, and municipalities remain today. It seems to me that if this criterion were strictly respected that more than 50% of existing municipalities could not, could be, be municipalities. That's why I'm pushing for us to try to respect the will of our citizens and not... with a colleague of the Stazic, who used a term here related to engineering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It cannot be called legitimately expressed will by citizens by engineering. The abuse of the will of the citizens should be addressed to him and sent to his address, not to the legitimate will of the citizens in this way. Furthermore, I would like us to be consistent with what we stand for. If it is, we respect the profession, then really in every example we try to respect the profession and what it said, and not when it suits our waist, then we call nicely to help the waist, when the waist doesn't fit, then we turn politics and actually jump into our own throats. Let us respect the principles we stand for. Therefore, and in this case, if the citizens have expressed their will, let their will be respected, and if some new municipalities do not have the means to function, so listen, they will address the state as existing municipalities so that we can be solid as long as we can be solid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34513	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Mrs. Agent Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34514	Well, it is incorrect that the fellow MP said, and it is precisely referring to the denial of fellow Stazic's statement that election engineering is prominent in the bill, so it argues that this is because we cannot call election engineering the will of citizens. And why is it that a fellow citizen has not expressed his will if they have been collecting for three years and more so when they have fulfilled all possible and formally legal, and have long had real legal reasons, the bill of law by the Government for the establishment of the municipality of Zaton has not followed? After all, the government can still correct and deny a fellow Stazic by just accepting the amendment to establish itself precisely on the citizens' demands and justified words, above all justified requests, the establishment of the municipality of Zaton.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34515	Thank you very much. As you know, this is also an opinion. The thought of one thing, the opinion of the other, but how do we do it all the time, then I don't blame you very much, I just mention it like that, do I? Now it's Mr. Representative Marijan Jurjevic's turn to go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34516	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Piploic, said that some frightened citizens of the Parliament would be as if the Parliament were a grandmother of horns, but it seems to me that some would like to turn the Parliament into a factory, machinery, a municipality-produced factory, so to some municipal Lebensburn. And it seems to me that there's a parole that's more important, especially before the elections, when every more agile parliamentary representative or advocate thinks it's not worth enough if he doesn't come home with a proposal at least for one municipality. And it seems to me with the respect of all our colleagues that we, who are here, have not proposed this time to anyone that we will somehow have to return to our own areas, our own fields. That we will feel less valuable because we are neither dad nor mom of any community and that here it is not whether it is natural or artificial insemination to be born. What we're turning the Parliament into before the election is really this one, let's ask ourselves and what we're doing with the Parliament. The fact is, it's 52 days until local elections. The fact is, all of a sudden, we got a sudden urge to meet the demands from the field that are always strong and so on. The fact is that we don't even know the territorial structure, the fact that we don't even know the electoral law, all this will be passed in these months. You see how strangely this Parliament is, and that's why I don't blame my colleagues for doubting election and engineering. Because this is what happens before. We're politicians, this is what happens before political elections, so local elections. And I'm really wondering what that means. Which means creating a dwarf, from some local self-government unit. In my opinion, every dwarf is looking for his Snow White. Which I don't know, again, this is about politics, and the essence of local self-government or the general self-government is not about territorial fragmentation. And it doesn't mean that we've just developed self-government by having managed to depreciate a small country into as many smaller pieces as possible. So then people out there are going to rule on their own and so on and what if they don't have the conditions. Does that mean only strengthening centralism and addiction to the great father, the big brother, Snow White, what you want to call it, it's about personification anyway. And that's all I wanted to say, everyone smart enough and me special. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34517	Thank you very much. I have to say, here's my colleague, Perushko, he made it very clear that he would support two municipalities. Well, as far as I know, he's not from the ruling part. All right, then. But the Dwarves also have the right to live. It's Mr. Representative Milan Meden's turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34518	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We always have a question in successful and less successful municipalities and cities arranged for a better life for all residents. The key jobs carried out by municipalities, cities with their own self-government are local activities and as such are not assigned to state bodies. There are vital jobs for all residents, and above all, it's meant to be arranged... And apartments. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Expansive and urban planning, municipal activities, communal order, maintenance and construction of unclassified roads, child care and social care, education, education, conservation of the environment and so on. Yet, in some parts of the municipalities and cities, these fundamental functions that should satisfy all its constructions are not possible. As a reason for failure, sometimes natural finance is a small budget for smaller municipalities, but sometimes it is also a reason and not productive local authorities. They'd say local executives are a weak manager, bad plans, organizes and controls, or there's no such skills. Sometimes there are also legitimate reasons for priorities whether they are social character or directional development into less developed areas of the municipality. Some people want the settlement to be arranged according to the wishes of potential investors or local powermakers are trying to make irreparable mistakes in spatial planning and later in the devastating construction. Many mistakes have unfortunately occurred in Istrian towns and municipalities whether it was an apartmentisation and concreteisation of the coast or the construction of a hotel on the coast of the sea in small municipalities whose capacities are actually greater than the inhabitants of this small municipality. That this is not a negligible problem only of local and state administrations, it also points out that out of the total number of complaints received in the competent ministry, as many as 66 per cent of building permits were cancelled right in Istria County. Sometimes it is a quick sale of land on the coast with a later rush urbanisation, which is then sold again and again and so on It is also known that the administration is also less efficient and less focused on the inhabitants and perhaps weaker as it motivates people and synergies and a common vision of their shared future. For such or similar reasons, it is perfectly natural that the inhabitants of smaller municipalities who are not satisfied in the prosperity of their part of the municipality, as well as the initiative to build a more quality municipality with their independence. Today, this law contains an initiative to establish several new municipalities and territorial changes. So today's law in Istria County proposes the establishment of two municipalities. The municipalities as we've heard from respected representatives of Fontana and Tarvabrig. The efforts to establish the Tarvabrig municipality dates back to 2003 but were not then included in the 34th session agenda. And in the last term, so last term, so last year. The pursuit of the establishment of the Fontana municipality dates back to the mid-90s and finally the current initiative committee managed to comply with all legal procedures and collect the necessary documentation. A review of the documentation submitted under the legislation shows a truly professional approach to projects to declare citizens, a positive statement by the city of Poreč and the municipality of Vrsar and a draft on the financial projection of the budget. The area of the proposed Tarvabriga municipality is located within the town of Poreč and represents a significant tourist potential. Only the tourist resort Lanterna with hotels and naturist center and camp has about 18 thousand beds. Privately owned by residents of the local board of today's board there are about 400 beds of the apartment type or rooms for rent. Overall, observing this tourist potential represents about 20% of the total accommodation potential in the city of Poreč. Given that it has about 1900 inhabitants, it is really strong economic tourism potential. So on one resident we have 10 accommodation units and is far ahead of the Croatian average. The Fontana is also situated in the middle of the western coast of Istria between Vrsar and the town of Poreč, and is known for its markedly separated coast by natural coves and islands. The fountain as the centre of a new municipality along with surrounding settlements has about 1000 inhabitants. And it is important to say that this is one of the few Istrian municipalities where the population is constantly growing. The city has a marked tourist potential with its extraordinary camps, private accommodation, and the strength of this potential suggests that each tourist season this new municipality reaches a million nights. The people of Fontans, however, like to say for their place in the tourist season that one restaurant or one bar works on one household. A major role in the promotion of the Fontana has been inescapably promoted all these years by its own tourist community, which was actually an internal force and an incentive for development, and has exerted constant pressure on the budget expenditures of Vrsar municipality of origin. In addition to today's state agrarian policy aimed at planting olives and vines of the Tarvabreg and Fontana municipalities will represent significant economic potential. One of our fellow MPs and in the debate of this law made it clear the existence of these municipalities as a possible victory for a different political option in the upcoming local elections. The key question arises is whether this is the insistence of Tar Vabriga and Fontana municipalities can have faster growth and development than they had before or perhaps threaten stagnation. The answer is economically and politically, in fact, very simple. The projection of the Tar Vabriga Municipality budget is more than 8 million kuna and for the Municipality of Fontana more than 6 million kuna, with budgets without the sale of land or its vital resources and will actually mean their financial independence. Where the overall offer of party and non-party individuals, the candidate for the municipal council is relatively weak or weak, so is the development of such a municipality predetermined with poor development growth or without realisation. When successful leaders finally show up, the budget is filled with existing resources and projects and people are then ahead of politics. It is an example of the Istrian municipality of Bala when, after the council crisis and the re-election of the municipality's budget in just a year from 3 million kuna, it rose to 14 million kuna again without selling land. The projects didn't turn up on their own, they were designed by scientists and leaders. Before the next election, the criteria are set higher, and the wires will only jump the best. It is simply necessary that people who are successful, who successfully run projects, people who are not operationally impotent and do not hold meetings just because of political or social form. For all these reasons, I give full support to the new municipalities, with the desire to soon resolve their strategic issue number one, to select the structure of the councils composed of capable individuals who represent the key to the success of the new municipalities, which will run all processes and know how to ensure a better quality of life for all its inhabitants. Thank you very much. Any replicas? There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34519	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and one correction of an incorrect quote. First replica, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34520	Well, 60% of the construction permits in Istria County were cancelled is the exact data. However, it should also be said that these building permits, and if there may have been a suggestion in this direction not to issue a local self-government, means not to issue a body to which they have the authority of either the County Assembly of Istria, was the mayor of the County of Istria, but state offices, as the competent ministry will say. Another thing I want to say is that the County of Istria does not own a single square meter of either agricultural, forest, tourist or so on. The building land wasn't even on sale. And it's not true that Balam didn't have a sale and a few thousand square meters so-called. building land. And that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34521	Replication response, Mr. Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34522	I appreciate everything that Reverend Cain has actually said. I believe that he himself noticed yesterday's cover of "Glas Istria" where it says that 66% of all complaints received on building permits in the County of Istria, which actually means a major problem and a local administration that controls that land. So if the state administration also intervened in the issue of these building permits, the burden must be borne by the local administration because it rules that land. When we talk about Bala, also yesterday, quoting the Voice of Istria very clearly, it says that the budget has grown from 3 million kuna to 14 million kuna. You yourself said that there was no big sale, or just a few thousand square meters, which certainly could not have filled the budget of 3 to 14 million kuna, but the reason why this municipality today is run by capable and quality people, and their projects have reached consensus and my and your party Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34523	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The presentation of my esteemed and respected colleague Meden would give the impression that he, in fact, as a member of the ruling party, was in some way promoting here and seeking the establishment of the Tar Vabriga municipality, I would remind him that at the 4th month of last year, the Club of Representatives of the SDP was the Proposer of the Law establishing the Tar Vabriga Municipality for the reason we were convinced that this request had everything on the law prescribed elements, so it has a budget projection of 8.8 million kuna, has a positive opinion of the City Council of the City of Poreč, has an adequate number of citizens' signatures, has a positive opinion of the Istrian County Assembly. But let me remind you, at that time, on behalf of the HDZ Club, he had just spoken to his colleague, Meden, and he was not so decided in the necessity of establishing the municipality because he defended that explanation read by his colleague Stazic, which referred to the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the necessity of stopping the process. And today Big Brother said something else, and I have nothing against it, and me and my colleague Madden are going back to Istria. And it turns out that we still advocated the establishment of this municipality, not for political but really justifiable reasons, because it has all the elements that should contain one such proposal, and where and where it will be more profitable than some other municipalities that are founded in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34525	Thank you. Mr. Milan Meden's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34526	Here. Today, a respected colleague of Peru said that this is actually of economic importance and that it is not politicizing and I am pleased that we will support these newly formed municipalities together, meaning among other things Tar Vabriga. In my presentation, I said that the townships of this municipality since 2003 and the path to independence have been saying that it is simply long and thorny. At that time, the proposal for this law was in front of MP Katarinčić Škrlj, who was included in the 34th session of 2003, if I am not mistaken, but simply she was removed from the agenda under the impression that no opinion was collected from the competent Ministry of Finance of the then government. With the same allegation she was rejected in the previous Saziv, in this Saziv 2004, if I am not mistaken, in April and after a review by the Ministry of Finance and the total collected documents today she is re-emerged in order and we will support her as we have said here. That's why I'm glad we're going to support this community together.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34527	Thank you. Let me just have one sentence. Mrs. Jadranka Katarinčić-Skrlj proposed this in 2003. It was rejected in 2003, it was rejected in 2004, and now we seem to have agreed. So everyone can be responsible for it. Thank you. And Mr. Walter Poropat, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Meden said that we share municipalities with successful and less successful, i.e. that in some municipalities local government is a weak manager. That's not true. And the example is that the Municipality of Rasa is not to blame that the settlements of Ravni, Drenji, Black and Santa Marina, and it is not possible to maintain the existing infrastructure and let alone build a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34529	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34530	So look, if the promoter, therefore, is establishing a new unit of local self-government, so if they have all the conditions, if they have the opinion of the citizens, if they have the opinion of the representative body of the County Assembly, and what's most important, so I understand the government's opinion, if they have a safe source of funding I see no reason, really no reason not to accept an initiative to form a unit of local self-government. I believe that any other consideration of our parliamentary representatives does not lead to the promotion of the general good, decentralisation, does not lead to the development of units of local self-government and most importantly is not respected, therefore, the democratic will of citizens and as much as we strive not to deny it, I stand behind it and as far as I support my fellow MPs... Well, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what we have 426 municipalities, 123 cities plus the City of Zagreb. [[You don't understand.]] It is not even the most important thing that some municipalities will simply be abolished or others formed. My colleagues and colleagues, it will take a long time to fully establish a system of local self-government and therefore let the process of profiling run, let the process of decentralisation and democracy run. Because if it continues to be decided from the centre of the power of the es cathedral, meaning in larger centres, it means out of the influence of the dominant units of local self-government, we will testify to a halt in the development of these environments, slowness and irrationalities in decision-making, missed investment, congestion and the development of entrepreneurship and increasing unemployment. It's not election engineering, it's political engineering and he's dangerous gentlemen. I know that there will be controversy about what I'm about to say, in Istria we are left Istrana, Istriana about 40%, and by deciding on the apartmentization and the lift of apartments it's a sophisticated way of changing your demographic image. Because no one's going to convince me that in Petrova we have Marina Crassy, people are going to buy apartments in Umag. No, gentlemen, it's a huge delusion. It is a sophisticated way of changing the demographic image of Istria. Because we know, ladies and gentlemen, that the autonomy of capital and head availability brings a significantly better result. I am glad that last year I supported the establishment of the Tar Vabriga municipality and I did not understand it from the opinion you quoted by the Government, that in the month of April the government refused, but the government kept it at that time that the conditions were not complete and that further work had to be done, but I also announced that it was only a matter of days when it would be declared to the Tar Vabriga municipality. I don't think the Tar Vabriga municipality needs to be repeated much, it has all the assumptions and developmental and organisational and economic, so also financial, to be a very successful unit of local self-government. And as for Funtana, of course, I support the establishment of the Municipality of Funtana not only because it has a million and 500 thousand overnight stays, not because it has twice as many nights as Zagreb, not because it has 100 economic facilities, not because it has a marina of 200 berths, not because it has a large gastronomy, not only because they have taught us a lesson in creating a tourist promotion, saying that every tourist destination has the right to self-indicate in its own lab, that it manages its own development. Because you see, if tourism is an experience market, if it's tourism, if it's a slogan of tourism, it's people. Then I ask you who can come up with it better and promote it than any dominant destination who knows best what to do in their place. I further submit an amendment proposing that the following eighth settlements be separated from the Municipality of Sveti Lovreć: Bravici, Begi, Delici, Flangi, Gradina, Kloštar, Kontašići, Marasi and attach to the municipality of Vrsar in which they have always been and which they gravitate in their geographical position. After all, they see greater opportunities for their further development and it is an injustice that we simply have to correct. So I'm glad to hear Mr. Perushk supporting this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understood for the establishment of a new municipality of Tar Vabriga and Funtana, as well as the separation and association of these settlements to my native municipality of Vrsar as if, as if to local initiative, domestic intelligence, domestic human potential. Respect for the petition of citizens of their own referendum, and you know very well that the most direct way to decide citizens is to respect the petition of citizens you have indeed confirmed that people are ahead of politics. Because, ladies and gentlemen, petitions are nothing more than a collective demand for citizens directed towards power. In this case, according to the highest legislative authority. It is therefore up to us to respect our citizens and their will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34531	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34532	Says Mr. Lino, building apartments sophisticated way of changing the image of Istria. It's a pretty brave xenophobic attitude. I remember Mr. Lino and Mr. Tudjman when he spoke about the need to precisely change the demographic image of Istria by settling in Istria residents from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Romania and so on, but I can't remember that such concessions have been opposed by any of the HDZ. There's something else I want to say. Who sells real estate in Istria? I said just before that the County of Istria doesn't have one centimeter of any agricultural, forest, building land. They sell something small, little 1% of our cities, in 99% of our people's sales. Our people. And the truth, only two spaces in the Republic of Croatia that have more inhabitants than the 2001 census are Zagreb and Istria. A large number of those residents who come to Istria, Zagreb, above all because of the economic situation, have made trouble trying to find their bread that they lost through either conversion, privatisation or the fact of war that some places such as Vukovar, Baranja today have more than 40% of the unemployed while unemployment in Istria is between 6% and 7%, in my Buzet somewhere around 2.5%. It's true, we've got a lot of problems. In one Poreč in 2004, there were more voters than in 2001. This is a huge problem that local self - administration must face and, above all, the domicile population. But it's also an indisputable fact that many people there simply as our 60s went either 50s or 40s times Italy continues to be in the world, simply trying to find a existence for themselves and its families.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34533	Thank you. Mr. Lino Cervar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34534	Like this, I listened very carefully to the debate of my fellow MPs. Well I don't mind, I think it's okay for everyone to say their opinions and he sees Istria in one way and that's fine, I have to respect it. But no one can forbid me to tell you how I see Istria as the real Istrarin, as the man from Istria, the Cervar man from Istria. ... Well, I don't think it's necessary to really talk to people, and this is how it makes me uncomfortable and rude to say that we in Istria have the smallest number of employees. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think we should be objective, just get up at 5:00 in the morning and go to Kaldani and see how many of our people go to Trieste, as much as the Mestre, as much as the Montfallcone goes, so these are people without a job. Well, I can't represent a policy that five people live well in Istria, and everyone else is weak, I don't think that's acceptable. And still, when I'm talking about fishermen, I'll mention fishermen to you, I see these guys, I saw them when they were this small, so they were just electricians, machinemen, people even intellectuals who were out of work so they went fishing. Well, it's a hard life. They laughed at me during the presidential campaign, those who rode the bus that they had never seen worse roads than we have in Istria, you'll say that we live in abundance, I tell you that Istria is in terrible reverse, that other counties live much better than us, that's my watching as I see Istria. I'll tell you something else, what's most important, since you've already pulled me by the tongue, so from Pazina, from Labin, from Pula, so what's left. It's a handful of misery, you see, Pazin, what he looks like, Labin, Pula, so that's a terrible one, how we can talk about some elite tourism, I don't know what with such centres, we have to make a little effort for our people in Istria to be better and to fight a little more for our people. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34535	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34536	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Someone's more persistent than me. Only one reference to a colleague of Cervara who said that the government had the opinions of all units of local self-government proposing this Law, that, or so, it would probably not have happened that, for example, in the Municipality of Mala Subotica, an entire settlement disappeared, a Piskorovec which was founded in April 2000, was delivered to all state bodies, elected and formed a local committee, registered and exists for all authorities except for the Central Office when he proposed this Law and was not included. So obviously there was no consulting with local self-government units, because the settlements simply escaped from the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34537	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Maria Byte, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34538	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law on districts, cities and municipalities supports it because it offers a correction in the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia which has proved necessary over the past period because of better and more functional development of local self-government. Since the adoption of the Law in 1997, through the functioning of local and regional regional self-government, and the decentralisation carried out from the state level, I believe that a good path has been found because the closer the government to the citizens is a greater and better possibility for citizens to participate in solving current and life problems. The state administration office based on the increase in units, in the network of local self-government respects the will of citizens, increases the opportunity for our people to make their interests and needs easier, so I thank you because in article 14 of the proposed Law of Požeko-Slavon County, the former municipality of Kutjevo for the city, which would gain city status with settlements Bektesh, Bliševac, Ciglenik, Ferovac, Grabarje, Gradište, Hrnjevac, Kula, Kutjevo, Lukač, Mitrac, Ovčare, Pore, Šumanovac, Tominovac, Venje and Vetovo. Kutjevo meets all the conditions of formal-legal and this is a question of the municipal council and the initiative launched until the conclusion of the Požeko-Slavon County Assembly, which is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to historical cultural and economic ones. Namely, throughout its long history with written documents from 1232, Kutjevo municipality is now an economic, cultural, educational and administrative headquarters and is one of the most important in the tourist center of Požeko-Slavon County. We list Kutjevo among the places that have passed the name of the Republic of Croatia throughout our homeland and are also known for its seed and vineyard production and for its oldest cellar in the Republic of Croatia with successful vineyards and cellars. The budget of the municipality of Kutjevo is sufficient for the future city to function and with developed small and medium and entrepreneurship, there is also a guarantee that will be able to successfully solve the problems of its citizens and justify this proposal by means of a tourist and cultural offer from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would also support at the end of the proposal in Article 19 of the Municipality of Island as a new municipality, which was proposed by the amendment of Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34539	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, honourable representative Zdenko Antešić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, an esteemed colleague said in her statement that the State Administration Office respects the will of citizens. That's not an exact quote. It is quite the opposite, and I will illustrate this with the example of the city of Rab where the city of Rab has sent to the central state administration office an inquiry to clarify the previous issue so as to clarify the previous issue of an initiative for the establishment of a new municipality in the area of the city of Rab, and the State Office has disobeyed the question and thus does not respect the will of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34541	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34542	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. However, the proposed Law offers only certain minor adjustments to the territorial structure compared to the existing situation that we have, therefore, with the existing law. He offers us less regional changes, the establishment of new 9 municipalities, or the annexation of individual settlements to a particular municipality, or city. I think that could have been achieved by amendments and additions to the existing law, but perhaps to understand such a proposal since so far, if I understand the secretary of state correctly, the law has been amended 15 times, and only last year three times, then this document that we have before us in some way needs to be represented by pure writing. What I could possibly put in place as an objection to this Bill proposal is the fact that no particular number or changes are made in its reasoning so that they are a little harder to see or need to know details and situations so as to see which municipality is new, which there is no further, therefore, no visible change from this proposal. What is more important to me than the County, City and Municipal Law itself, and that neither in reason nor anywhere else we have any criteria based on which one unit of local self-government can form, whether it is the number of inhabitants, the area of social gross product per capita, the size of the original income per capita and so on because I think it is important to know whether any unit of local self-government in the future can function or not. I think, therefore, that these clear criteria on the basis of which a particular area can obtain the status of a municipality or city are important and crucial that a single unit of local self-government could be rightly decided. As far as the county has not even mentioned them in the debates, I think that this system of counties in the Republic of Croatia is 20 counties plus the city of Zagreb that have the status of counties has come to life and that there is indeed no need for any change in this future and longer period of time. In the absence of criteria, we have a continuous inflow of requirements for the formation of new municipalities. This does not often take into account sustainability, i.e. the possibility of self-financing of small municipalities. Because often their budgets can't solve almost any problem. In defining these criteria, of course, that particular consideration should be taken and in some way specific criteria should be defined for the area of specific state concern, because they are also able to meet these criteria because of the damage they have suffered and because of the lack of infrastructure base. But what I'm saying. In the absence of criteria, we have no choice but to try to respect the democratically expressed will of the citizens, because there is no other criterion. With this proposal ahead of us I've been trying to add up, we have 579 units of local, or regional self-government. 20 counties plus the city of Zagreb, 124 towns and 434 municipalities. A total of 579. Whether it's too much or too little, I don't think the figure itself will say anything. More important than the figure is content, or what these units of local self-government can provide to their citizens. We have a local self - government, or community with great potential for which they may not have used their potential in that life at this age. While on the other hand we also have units of local self-government, where it was not to expect perhaps significant steps, construction of municipal infrastructure, but which have done very much. I would say that for the functioning of local self-government, almost crucial people who run and run these units of local self-government are very, very important. Because an inert chief where there is potential will do much less than an agile chief, but in that municipality, and therefore where there are no assumptions for one development, but therefore agile chief with his initiatives, with proposals can contribute greatly, do a lot to make this local unit develop, to build a municipal infrastructure, to bring potential investors and thus to employ people and create an additional standard. We have had this system of local self-government in practice since 1993, so from those elections that were in the spring of 93. And here is now 13 years of such or similar territorial structure and I think it has had enough experience and it's been enough time to make one full analysis of the current functioning of the local self-government system and then to propose, depending on that analysis, any changes to the system of functioning of local self-government, i.e. the areas of the Law on districts, cities and municipalities. And finally, I support this bill of law, I think it was an initiative that he could go to another reading to which a number of remarks, discussions, suggestions we've heard here in the assembly would be appreciated. And what is possible to be respected by that second reading should certainly be before the next local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34543	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34544	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no secretary of state, I'm hoping he'll come back to the gym, because I'd really like to hear a few details that I'm going to bring out later. I'd share my exposure in two parts. First of all, I would like to draw a few general conclusions based on what you colleagues and colleagues have said so far. And then, for example, in the community where I was born, it's the Vinodol Municipality, I'd say a few details on the basis that you're going to see that part of what I'm proposing today is really absurd. First general conclusions. The colleagues and colleagues of 9 new municipalities mean 100 new council seats, 100 new council fees, means several dozen new professional political positions, means so many fewer funds, and yet the modest funds that we allocate to local self-government, for the realisation of those jobs that local self-government is in charge of. We have heard from colleagues and colleagues that some municipalities have not implemented a complete legal procedure. Mr. Cervar mentioned us as a legislative authority. And I ask you, do we, in just one case of these nine, have not respected the legal procedure we have the right to put such a law on the table and talk about it today? We should, first of all, follow the law and the legal procedures. If we don't do it, then how will our citizens do it? Where do we get the right to expect it from them? Furthermore, I would like to remind you colleagues and colleagues that this Parliament, namely not us, but the composition of 10 years ago has ratified in this space the European Charter of Local Self-Government which obliges us of course to get a position in the adoption of such laws and to discuss it in detail in the county community, i.e. in the alliance of cities and municipalities. We regularly skip that stage, that part of the process which certainly speaks of us as both the rule of law and of us and our European orientation. I still think that the government can really withdraw this and should withdraw this proposal. I think this should really be the first reading, and we need to clearly separate the pears from the apples in the meantime. Where it is and where the procedure is not carried out properly. As far as my Vinodol Municipality is concerned, I must say, my place as Bribery went even relatively well. But colleagues and colleagues, please, I really ask you to place Grižana in this municipality I repeat the place of Grižana in this municipality, this bill of law has been divided, the whole place that some of the settlement has remained in the present municipality, and part of it is proposed to enter the future municipality. Fellow colleagues, the largest miniature painter of our planet Julia Klović was born in Grizane. As of tomorrow, his biographies will be written by Mr. Julius Klovic, the largest miniatureist born in Grižane belonging to municipality A) and municipality B. That's really embarrassing. There are no territorial, historical, cultural grounds for this nonsense. I'm not going in for other municipalities. Of course, I can't support Rab either. With these colleagues and colleagues, we break out, we come out of the context of everything that has worked and worked for centuries. We passed the Vinodol Code back in the 13th century by designing a union, and we insisted on it for centuries. Now, in the 21st century, a group of wise men have found themselves and suggested that we throw all these values into the water, that we share even some places in this shameless way and accept clearly such a proposal. Who suggested it from the Vinodolska municipality? Those who four years ago did not get the support of citizens to behave, they feel that they will not get the support and they feel that this way by turning several local committees into a new municipality they have a chance to come to power. This brings clear new official cars, new journals, new travels but does not solve anything. This creates not only a miniature of the community, but not an art miniature of the clove type, but one political, one shameful, one cultural miniature that I cannot accept. My club is asking me to vote against this law, and I'm not going to do it. I won't be in this room at all when this law is voted, I have no right to participate in such a matter. When it comes to my community, I can't really let anyone tie me to a law like this, to a bill like this. My colleagues and colleagues, couldn't we have spent those resources more cleverly than these violent divisions? Here, three weeks ago here was the President of the Polish Parliament, and he clearly told us, they trained 40,000 people to help local self-government, regional self-government, economic operators to clearly apply to projects, first CARDS, and later pre-accession, and later structural ones. We are colleagues and colleagues only 7% of the funds Europe has offered us through the CARDS projects. If we use only 7.8% of what we're offered through pre-accession funds, if we use only 7.8% of the structural funds tomorrow, then we really don't need Europe, then we're absolutely clear why we turned to the other side and turn local committees into municipalities. I ask you, Government representatives, to withdraw this Law, to separate pears and apples, the wheat from the weeds, and that what is really done under the legal procedure and pass and that this second one really let us not let it pass in this way, in this shameless way as it is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34545	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34546	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, all day long today we are dealing with the evaluations of the territorial structure and we always estimate that there are too many units and unequivocally that almost every single one of us estimates that this territorial structure has obtained results and good results because clearly decentralisation, a strong local self-government has results because this is a larger number of people who can show both their abilities and their knowledge. Therefore, the situation in this area is not black and white and whoever wants to say that or not the local self-government unit thinks it speaks based on grades, personal feelings and grades. And I think that the best assessment in local self-government can still be found in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Government, which has prepared for us by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I'll read that assessment and read: "One of the main problems is the insufficient financial and personal capacitation of local self-government units and set up a monotypic concept of defining the local self-government segment and I'm determining it's our biggest problem, the monotypic type of governance in local self-government units. So we have 900 units, all 900 have the same power, same possibilities, same abilities.". I continue, on the one hand, a large number of units of local self-government and employees in its administrative bodies and directly affect the level of public spending. So we need to establish that it is not so harmless to form units of local self-government because if they have too many employees, we are making public spending more visible and public spending is still something that rich countries can afford and Croatia is clearly not. On the other hand, the centralisation of many administrative activities prevents the effectiveness of the work of the local self-government body. At the same time, the most important system of funding of local self-government units is extremely inappropriate and this is why we have ineffective municipal infrastructure and also units of local self-government cannot respond to meeting the needs of citizens in the field of health care, social care, care, education, culture and environmental protection. Therefore, only if we take this very clear, would I say the assessment of the state of the units of local self-government make it clear that we have three problems, a monotype of governance, a problem of strong centralisation and a third inadequate system of funding for local self-government. If these are the assessment of the state of affairs in me would say the development of units of local self-government then we must know that it is very, very risky to make any decision on the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. And the question remains what is our priority. And it is evident that our priority should be to get rid of the monotypic system of action of local self-government, to introduce several species and that moment when we have several types of local self-government units, we are not talking about regional ones, at that point we will see that we do not have to fear more units of local self-government because they will be in charge of only part of their activities, they will probably not need any employees, so I would say increasing public spending. And that's our biggest problem that in 12 years of survival of the Law on Local Self-Government, we haven't solved the issue of the kind of units of local self-government. And of course, if we solve the question of a more typical system of local self-government, I think it would be much easier for both state bodies and ministries to continue the decentralisation process because then they wouldn't be afraid that hospitals would be able to be on the burden of cities, or major cities, if social care would finally fall to the soul, I would say the mayor and mayor, or just the mayor or mayor of the city, municipalities and cities above 10 grand. And, of course, when we solve this problem, I think that this moment of individual citizens' initiative to strengthen, and I would say by setting up, maybe even small units of local self-government won't be difficult for us MPs because they will only have a certain portion of their work. And, of course, in that part, it's a completely different way of funding. So, as we see the biggest problem is that so far governments, administrations have not developed this system, they have not allowed us to be responsible for making decisions on the formation of new territorial structures and new territorial units. And it's obvious that by then it's just a certain feeling, until then it's a certain political assessment. That's why I'd say we're making a mistake when we're deciding a territorial structure like this today. Why? So the law says that since we haven't solved the fundamental problems of local self-government, we need state bodies to consume, hear the opinion and units of local self-government that separates some new structure, that we need to hear the county congregations, that we need to share that responsibility so that we don't increase consumption and on the other hand we don't create an obstacle to further decentralisation. Unfortunately, we don't have that kind of dialogue, that kind of communication, but I have to say, I'm a little disappointed, because what do you have today? If you have a negative opinion of the unit of local self-government or county then you have a conviction by the state body they do not respect initiatives, they are against local self-government and essentially disqualification at these moments we do not need. I'd say the necessary disqualifications serve us so we can defend ourselves because we don't have the necessary argument. And the easiest thing to do is to convict someone, not support the initiative, stop the initiative, you're not democratic, and you're against, I'd say, the local self-government unit. I mean, it's an honor to the one who defends himself that way, because I appreciate that disqualifications are at least for us here in the Parliament, and they're not necessary. So, what can we determine? If we continue with this sedition before we solve fundamental problems in the Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government, we will continue to have an obstacle to further decentralisation because state bodies cannot decentralise or care, education or higher education in a monotype system. Then, what we also need to know, the economy will have problems with further simmering. Why? Well, the biggest problem in Croatia is that we don't have quality space management, we don't have spatial plans, we don't have money to make spatial plans, there's not enough expertise and of course we're not talking, I'd say the irresponsible appearance of those local "sheriffs" as we say, when individuals try to adapt space management to certain personal needs. That's why we need to be very careful until we solve the underlying problems in local self-government. Because they will simply have greater consumption and the economy will have huge problems because they have no one to communicate with, they will flee from such units of local self-government. So very clearly and openly, I think that today's law that is before us is still a sign of the political will of an individual or of us here if we define ourselves because we didn't have common elements for the assessment. We have a lack of communication between the state authorities and the unit of local self-government and regional self-government, and that's why. I have two more words to say, and this is about the Vinodol Municipality, which is a classic example of such a proposal. So is Lopar on Rab. But at the same time certain mistakes that we in the Parliament made in the division between Opatija and Lovran, although there are all documents, all papers, so it's not the establishment of a new municipality but only, I would say the transfer of certain settlements to the municipality they belong to, it's not the state's body that solves it. So we're trying to solve it with our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34547	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34548	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in Croatia we have, I don't know if any of us here know how many municipalities, which cities, which county, are approaching some 600 numbers, and we'll all agree that for a country of 4.3 million inhabitants and some 56,000 square miles that's too much. And there is no doubt that there will be a certain day when, with great turmoil, we will have to decide on the ground to abolish some of the municipalities. I also believe that one day Croatia will have to be regionalised, that it will have to be decentralised, because otherwise Zagreb will suck, not only politically, as it has already done, economically but also demographically the entire Republic of Croatia. While Croatia is so centralised on the other hand, no government in this country will succeed. They're going to have to deal with everything and it's going to be one extremely unspective policy. So, among other things, centralism in Croatia, centralisation serves to rule from one centre, including in those environments in which the ruling policy does not have political affection at that time, because the police have inspection, judges, what I know, finances, offices for building permits, etc., is managed by Zagreb and not by some county center or municipality or city. As far as this law is concerned, I agree with all those who have noticed that it is a classic political engineering. It is simply trying to gain favor in some environments in which HDZ has so far had no political power. It's especially the case in the Primorian-Gorski County. Something similar might have happened before some other local elections, it's true, but it's nothing more than a classic political engineer. In the Primorje-Gorski County, Lopar is formed on Rab and Vinodol from the Vinodolski municipality. And my impression, as the mayor of the city of Rab said, is that the Rabians around the initiative are at least divided. We are on the other side of Istria absolutely for the Tar Vabriga and Fontana municipalities, I have no doubt about the election victory of the IDS there. The fountain is separated from Vrsar, Tar Vabrig from Poreč. However, I would also like to say that for 26 thousand people as many as there are Porestine, these 8 local self-governments, gentlemen, which is too much. The same situation is in Pula at 80,000 we have 8 and these local self-government. For example. Now Funtana with 700 inhabitants has a million 342 thousand overnight stays, which is 7.95% of Istrian overnight stays, which will say 3% of Croatian overnight stays. Of course one such municipality can exist. But now let's imagine the election in Funtana. At least four lists will appear. It knows Lino, I know it, it knows Peru, times 15 candidates, it's at least 60 people, it might be 5 lists, 80 people times 3 family members, it's about 30 to 40% of citizens will be directly involved in these local elections, so on the lists we come up with family choices. But no matter what I said, IDS is for this municipality as well as for Tar Vabriga, which has a million 426 thousand 750 overnight stays in 2004 or 8.46% of Istrian nights, which is about 4% of Croatian nights. So these municipalities can exist even though it should be said that even so far their native municipalities of Vrsar, Poreč did not neglect a higher level of huge investment that was happening there. Clearly in this, Tar Vabriga should bring in Frata Perce what some in their amendments suggest, but not Gedici and Rosina, because these people have declared themselves, not at the local referendum, but at the petition for Poreč. It is strange that the government, on the other hand, did not accept the Stinjan municipality, as one such initiative was also launched. But I want to believe that changing the government in Pula will also change the attitude toward the Stinjan. There's no mention of Brijuni here, even though I think they should belong to the Fažani. As far as Basgali is concerned, it's not a municipality, it's a space of Gračis that should now belong to Pazina according to this initiative. The truth is, up until, somewhere in 2001, there was one such initiative. But in 2002, we have the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and the Basegals that are in Grazi, so in this space today they're more important in a more privileged position than they would be if they were in Pazin. The profit tax in Pazin is paid at a rate of 20%, in Bazgalje and Grachiš at 15%. Through the form of tax returns, every citizen of Bazgali can withdraw about 2 thousand kunas, and in Pazin couldn't do it, so I often hear people telling me, so wait don't play with it that's the whole of our monthly salary, if they're in a working relationship. But why is he especially showing up? Who in this time of marriage can challenge bilingualism? Based on international agreements of settlements where it is officially used with the Croatian language and the Italian language must be written in Croatian and Italian, this among other things stems from the Constitutional Law, resulting from a whole series of internationally ratified conventions. And so I ask you to include that standard in this Law on the area of municipalities, cities and counties. Perhaps the most absurd example, I would call it exclusion, not these small municipalities, but this case where the settlement of the Serbian field changes or crosses into the Croatian field. If gentlemen is the century-old Toponi, the Serbian field, leave it, so Serbia won't come there, so it won't... stop by, Seselj and draw the border from Karlobag I don't know about Virovitica via Karlovac etc. It's a Croatian settlement gentlemen, don't yell, let me finish, it's a Croatian settlement called the Serbian Field, and that's all there is to it. Something similar happened to us in this House 5 years ago, when the White Manastir tried to break the same initiative in the White Manastir. Who needs that? Why we're simply delegating ourselves. I think it's simply this country, a policy that has changed the relationship to minorities, and the higher co-existence in these areas, the return, democratic legitimacy in my court, gentlemen, is not necessary. As far as the law itself is concerned, last time I spoke on behalf of the Club, I announced that IDS would support all amendments to the opposition. In the end, however, it is precisely the fact that two municipalities are forming in Istria that we must vote in favour of the legal text. Here's after this Law we'll get if I'm not mistaken for 41 of the municipalities, which cities in the County of Istria. I was thinking of answering something and Mr. Honeyn, he's not here. But something to Mr. Lin Chevar. There must be a hard life in Istria, living as hard as in Croatia. With 2,000 kunas that our pensioners in Buzet or Labin have as much difficulty living as those in Dubrovnik or Vinkovci, with the difference that perhaps children can get to work in Istria. Istria at the moment wanted someone to admit it or not, which is a huge unemployment has unemployment between 7% and 8% in Croatia 19%, in the gross product is the gross product of Istria 50.60% above the Croatian product. Exports of Istria alone have more than imports, meaning in this more positive and finally next to the city of Zagreb only slightly more inhabitants in 2001 than in 91. So I don't believe that the residents who move here move from the east, because it's worse there than in the parts where they lived until then. Clearly, many of our people had to leave the neighborhood in search of existence, but at least those people in neighbouring Italy or elsewhere came to work. And finally, I'm going to say one more detail, what's interesting about that suite that Cervar mentioned. In Istria, the traffic of real estate to 210 thousand inhabitants is higher than in Zagreb, which has more than 800 thousand people. And who sells, in 99% of the cases, they sell ordinary little people who thus want to solve their own existential problem, buy a son's truck, I don't know a leaky apartment, train them in Padova or in Zagreb doesn't matter, build another or two apartments. If we can touch that, I don't know. But it's simply a fact that no one can successfully challenge.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34549	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34550	A fellow Cain, as usual in his inspired and slightly emotional speech, always brings forth a multitude of false things, and so it is now. First of all, he said, well, he's not going to live for 56,000 square miles, where only 4.3 million people live. Both data are incorrect. I can tell you very reliablely that Croatia's mainland Croatia has 56 thousand square kilometers. I can also tell you very reliably that Croatia has the sea. From the sea Croatia has 89 thousand square kilometers, it is the Croatian Sea. The second thing you said, Seselj will not come and cross the Serbian field and pull the line. He certainly will not, I assure you, for his hands of righteousness have come upon him, but that is what his heirs intend. Just listen to Tomislav Nikolic's deputy Serbian Radical Party, which today says it is dreaming of the Virovitica-Karlovac-Ogulin-Carlobag border. Mr. Caine, whom the snake bites and the lizard needs to be afraid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34551	Replica, the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34552	Yeah, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34553	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34555	Well, two things I'd like to replicate to an esteemed representative. Please. Well, I don't doubt it, I have sympathy for Mr. Honorable Representative and he's fighting for Istria and I think we're gonna keep fighting, too, that's fine. However, I have two remarks. I must say, first of all, as much as I've tried to understand, you haven't convinced me that we're doing well in Istria. We are weak, and we must all join in if we need all parties to be better. And you don't have to tell people something that's not true. The way I see it. The other thing is, I have to say it, Mr. President. On many occasions you have this style that you mentioned that support for Funtana, Tar Vabriga, but you have announced to us in this electoral engineering that the IDS will still win in Funtana. And I think for the sake of truth, I want to say one thing. I know that you do a lot of national policy in your debates, we need to deal with our regional policy more, then we'll be better off for sure. But while I'm at it, I'll tell you this. Word is, I didn't say it, it's said in Istria that finally IDS should be put to check and go to the polls on its own, so you can say you won. Because it is said in Istria that in the last parliamentary elections he beat the SDPs, not you, or that they helped you win. And please make a deal with the SDP gentlemen that we know who the winner is in Istria, because otherwise you're losing your legitimacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34556	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute club debate. Your Honor, you've put that on now. I've been watching you, I've been watching you, don't. Don't. You don't, colleague Cain, I've been watching you, don't tell me. Here's a five-minute debate. You, Mr. Cain, on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34557	Your Honor. Lino IDS will win both in Funtana and Tar Vabriga. And as he won over 50% in the 2001 County elections, the result will be repeated in 2005. You don't doubt that, neither do I, and the vast majority of Istria's citizens are also convinced of that result. Once again, as far as Tar Vabriga, Funtan, we support it. I said, these are two settlements that make one 4, the other 3% of all Croatian nights, and it is clear that they can exist. I wish them every success after their formation, and I believe that the County of Istria will be very helpful in that. Secondly, I would like to say what I was talking about earlier, that by the basis of the Constitutional Law on Minorities, the foundation of a series of ratified conventions between formerly Ex Yugoslavia and the Republic of Italy, which was taken over by the Republic of Croatia and those which Croatia ratified with the neighbouring country of settlements and places, where it was introduced into official use with the Croatian language and Italian especially in the area of zone B of the free territory of Trieste, as it was called until 1954, where you too live have been written in Croatian and Italian. If that standard is introduced into this Law I think it would be a good message to everyone and beyond our borders. In the case of this mentioned Serbian i.e. We do not provoke Croatian fields, Mr. Lonchart, but the country should not be provoked as such. We just don't need it. You don't have to touch those cannons. What is proposed for me is the provocation of primitiveism because imagine now Slovenians that Slovenians at the Slovenian-Italian border are changing into some Slovenians or that now someone similar is doing something in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia, Vojvodina with some of the Croatian, Croatian names. Just try to respect something that's natural. Another thing to respect is the will of the field. If anyone wants a municipality, if there's a majority of citizens, let's make it possible. But let's not rape individual communities because of some petty political interest between this party or that party because the parties are changing in power, but after that life must be organized. And that's the kind of alchemy we've been looking for for all these 13 years. But there's something else to confess. That some small community communities after the formation of municipalities on their premises had simply reborn. For example, one Gračišine, one Grožnjan, one Brtonigla, one Oprtalj, one Cerovlje, one Matulji and so on. And it's not true that it didn't happen much in those environments. Exceptionally many, extremely many, and those who had the courage to introduce these small municipalities in 1993, no matter how ungrateful war and so on, had one vision and I think it was somehow proved right because it was a bold decision. But today to further expand these municipalities, we're approaching 600. Well that's, brother, it's too much. And it's over. And it needs to be clearly acknowledged. Surely one thing is that it is better to be a municipality, to have your budget than to be a local board or a local community. But in the end, what Mr. Linic was saying sooner or later, someone will have to pay for it and we won't get rid of it. And I also know to Mr. Loncar that Croatia has, if I am not mistaken 56.9 or 5 thousand square miles, the seas 39, 36.9 or 39.6 does not matter and we do not need to worship it because our people do not live as in Jules Verno's novels under the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34558	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34559	Well, Damir wouldn't be Damir if he didn't keep saying what he was saying. Just before he said, the only thing I could agree with, but it would be me to deny what he was saying, which is too much is. To paraphrasise that old Gavrilovic commercial, if it's too much of Cain. We don't need to provoke, let's not rape certain environments. Who Mr. Caine, that's completely incorrect, who's provoking whom? As far as I know, we are in Croatia. As far as I know, Croatian people live in Croatia regardless of their nation and religion, their worldview. You should know that as an intellectual and as a parliamentary representative. But let's go back to the Serbian field one more time. Dear colleague Cain, if you have not been able to watch the film these days, I am asking you to take a good look at it and see what Voja Seselja is doing today, Toma Nikolic is talking about Croatia and Serbian countries in Croatia. And he says he will soon fly to the Serbian Adriatic and that in Serbia's Zadar. But he's not going to watch that movie, and neither are you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34560	He may fly, but something else. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34561	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. The debate also showed that Croatia is becoming a country of paradox more and more. On the one hand, we heard in this breakdown that many municipalities should not be municipalities because they do not have enough budget revenues for the salaries of their employees. That's what Mr. Cain said earlier, and on the other hand, everyone supports the formation of new municipalities. So it's real, we become paradox country. So that non-response, and if it would just be taken according to the number of amendments we're getting 15 new municipalities. And no one even simulated whether these 15 new municipalities would be able to do what the inhabitants of that area were doing when they were expressing their desire to establish their community power to do so. Because when people go after a new municipality, he thinks of the regulation of municipal infrastructure, of many other things, and eventually what happens is that this new municipality becomes a purpose to itself and that everything he earns goes to the mayors of the municipality and those officers in the municipality. And no one asked. And everyone, in the end, says that, and on the other hand, says that they will support the establishment of a new municipality. Here's an example for you, Mr. Caine, the last one to talk about it like that. We also know, on the other hand, that, as part of harmonising our legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, this was even a hint from the government, we will have to go to a new municipal system, or a new territorial division of states where there will be fewer counties and fewer towns and fewer municipalities. You saw yourself in the press that there was talk of being 4 to 5 regions, big cities and there would be fewer municipalities. You understand? And now we're really coming into this paradoxal situation. Has anyone thought about what will happen for, if we pass this week this Law for these 15 municipalities that only this part will go in terms of separation from the former municipality? How will elections be organised in the first place? So this situation has been since 1992. In 1992, the constitution was first adopted according to the Constitution means at the level of current counties, cities and municipalities. There were only certain additions. And the former government didn't even get into that part of the state's communal structure that fits what we can or just know. Let's just look at it, put regulations in the area, and you'll see that most of the municipalities don't respect those regulations at all. Let's just say for municipal dumps. For many other things. They can't meet it at all, but they're getting donations from the county, from the state budget. So we're going to have to obviously think about all of this, that we need to do a transitional period, figure out the legal period that's going to take, say, two to three years for the municipalities that are now, to see if they can confirm their status. So to take into account the financial parameters, those legal obligations to see how much they meet their legal obligations in the first place, to see how much income they have per capita, what income they have, and then we can come up with a real picture and a real full answer to how many cities they need, how many municipalities, how many municipalities we're really going to be, on the one hand, a country of paradox. We're going to vote this and what we're going to get no one will know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34562	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34563	Well, counterpart Kovacevic completely incorrectly said that in order to comply with the European acquis, we would have to reduce the number of units of local self-government. So there is no bauku of Europe that Europe will now reduce our number of units of local self-government. And in Europe you have countries where you have an extremely large number of local self-government units and on the other hand you have countries where you have a small number of large units of local self-government, so you have one Germany where you have in one part of Germany a small unit of local self-government, in another part of a large one. So there is no bauku Europe that will now abolish municipalities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34564	Honored representative Zdenko Antesic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34565	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State! The SDP club believes that citizens' wish for their municipalities is quite legitimate. However, law and legality must be respected and all legal conditions of the SDP will support it where they are respected. However, in this form, the law opposes the government's principle of irrationally increasing units of local self-government because many have neither materials nor I stress the humane conditions for fulfilling their legal obligations. Furthermore, the legal procedure has allowed proposals which are legally invalid because no legal procedure has been respected and not all necessary documents are collected, which is inadmissible and no consideration has been taken of the interests and rights of the citizens of which the new units are separate. Furthermore, the proposed legal text does not clearly define the way in which the initiators are declared changes which leaves the possibility of manipulation, which is often unfortunately happening in small areas. Also, no deadlines are defined which again leaves the possibility of different manipulations. In addition, the legislative proposal completely left out the need to obtain the opinion of the representative body, which sets out a new unit of local self-government which is inadmissible and impermissible to the constitutional rights of local self-government units and leaves the possibility that every group of ambitious citizens on the ground with a foothold in the government should establish its own municipality. We now have some data from 549 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. I would suggest that every MP who holds onto himself suggests one community by rounding that number around 700. I propose that this law be withdrawn from the procedure and after the local elections have been held in peace and the best solution is found.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34566	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, five minutes of debate, the respected representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34567	Mr. President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Listen, I've got to answer my colleague before, he won't be mad. You see, yet you have confirmed that I was right when I said what I said about SDP because you simply quoted in your discussion a slogan of SDP which reads: "People live better but are not aware of it.". I think that's what the former minister of the Church said. If that's the case, I'd like to say that we disagree, but we'd really like to show people not to dream but to really live better. And secondly, as far as electoral engineering is concerned, I would like to say that I quite understand that in the moment that we are all less and less in Istria of the domicile population, so Istrana, Istria. And listen, it's clear to me that you're not going to say "collect" right now, but you know a little with Italian minorities, along with the Serbs a little, with the Bosniaks because you still need to raise a little votes, that's clear to me. But I don't think it's enough to make one bottle and get even one host population. But let's let it go. We support as the HDZ Club The Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Since the first formation of units of local self-government, more areas have been said to have felt deprived of their status since they have failed to form as new units of local self-government, but have remained as so-called. the sticker of a municipality called the local committee, etc. And that's what's left of those units, first and foremost, in development. And it is not only that the establishment of its own unit of local self-government because of its rationality, decision-making speed and decision-making will significantly contribute to the development of entrepreneurship, the reduction of unemployment, but it is simply that it will allow for faster development of this area with huge potentials. Therefore, I have said before and you think that this is the position of the Croatian Democratic Community, so this is our position to allow where conditions exist and to know what conditions are, and in particular I am talking about solid sources of financial resources that we can and should allow all units of local self-government to design their own development with their brains. In line with the principle of economicity and efficiency in the conduct of local district affairs which directly meet the needs of citizens, we support the establishment of municipalities of all those who are in this proposal, which would therefore be to support domestic intelligence, domestic human potential, support for credibility, direct responsibility to citizens. And finally, every other consideration of us Parliamentarians does not lead to the promotion of general good, decentralisation, does not lead to the development of units of local self-government, and most importantly, is not respected in this way by the democratic will of citizens. We The Croatian Democratic Community Club accept the collective request of Croatian citizens to power and thus prove once again that people are ahead of politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34568	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34569	Who helped whom, Mr. Lino, ask in VIII. President Shakespeare's constituency. That's number one. Number two, I didn't say that our people live better without being aware of it. Our people mostly Istrians work extremely hard and unfortunately do not live as they deserve and especially not in Croatia millions and 60,000 pensioners, 30,000 unemployed, 40,000 people who work in insolvency companies and do not receive salaries. Now the second correction to an incorrect quote. We're collating Lino with residents of the Istrian County. If you share them by nationality from where someone came from it IDS has never done or will do so before and while the IDS will also receive elections in the County of Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34570	Second correction by the respected representative of Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34571	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect assumption that the SDP has ever had an attitude or slogan that people in Croatia live better just so they don't know it. By the way, Mr. Cervar of you in HDZ, we in the SDP can think for ourselves, so we don't have to think for what the president or the top of the party thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34572	Honorable representative Walter Poropat corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34573	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative Lino Cervar said that people in Istria live better, but that they are not aware of it. That's just not true. It is true that all indicators of life are better in Istria than in other parts of Croatia. But it is also true that this parliamentary majority accepted last week's debate of the IDS Bill on Reimbursement of Pensions Users, it is certain that our pensioners would live better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34574	A colleague, a respected Poirot, advocate Lino Cervar did not say that you corrected people in Istria to live better without being aware of it. No, he's very precisely alluded to a minister in an earlier government in care of a statement. So he didn't say this. You didn't follow closely. And respected representative Jaksa Marasovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34575	Actually, I don't know whether to correct Mr. Cervar, I would even agree with him, and I would say that it is best to respect the public's opinion and to set up municipalities and cities in Croatia, because it's all the same to God whether it's 550 or 560 or 570, all the way to an absurd situation, so we'll probably have 700, 800 or a thousand municipalities and cities in Croatia, and why not more, why not 2,000. Because we have to be aware that according to the 2001 census. 40% of Croatia's population lives in settlements ranging from 0 to 2000 thousand. So why don't we just have a few municipalities and cities, because when we get things to the absurd, then the balloon will crack, and we'll come to our senses, then we'll sit down and try to figure out what's real and what's normal for this country to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34576	Coliarasović, you yourself are aware that you have not corrected any incorrect allegations by colleagues of Cervara, you have applied for a replica that you cannot do according to the Rules of Procedure, and then you have changed. You've expressed your agreement, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. No warning. On behalf of the HSLS Club of the LS DC, honourable representative Ivan Chehok, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34577	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It is amazing that in this country we are discussing local self-government and all the important issues concerning local self-government always and only before local elections. And maybe we could also accept that this debate starts a year or maybe six months before it comes to regular local elections. However, during the term of office of the former Assembly, we discussed this in March or April 2001, so a month before the local elections were held. And now here's a month and a half before the local elections are held we're going to discuss a package of laws that actually regulate that area that regulates the choices. One country that has 4.5 million inhabitants and is the people of the size of one Berlin, and today I will remind you that public services do not exist for territory, but exist for citizens, it is truly amazing that one such state is here in 13 years discussing a controversial, accident, so I would say more as a simple way to prepare for local elections, in fact one of the most important issues of democracy development, that is the question of local democracy. We may not know if built Democrats at the head of the state, we can have Socrates and Platos, we can have the greatest Democrats and the greatest policy theorists at the head of the state. We can also have great institutions, we can develop I don't know what kind of systems to protect democratic rights, ladies and gentlemen, but there is no real development of democracy without strengthening local democracy. Local democracy and the development of local democracy, which of course promotes then and the development of civil society, are condicio son qua non democratic progress in any country. And the countries we call more democratic than Scandinavian today have had at least three or four strong reforms in local self-government over the past 20 years. What did we do? We are discussing this here before the elections, and then we are playing a little bit with whether or not we are going to allow any of the municipalities to be independent or who they are living in to separate themselves, and then, of course, we are fighting on these local grounds about whether this settlement will get how it was known to happen because there is one restaurant or one pub more or maybe a church is nicer than another settlement, these are the questions that, if we want to be serious Parliament, we should not debate this way. I think it is the task of this government, the state secretary and the majority to finally adopt a new rule and new criteria for Croatia's territorial administrative structure after 13 years of this experience. Croatia as a country of 4.5 million people is completely illogically divided. We have too many counties, we have too many cities, we have too many municipalities. And all of what we're doing today is actually cosmetics that we don't cover for anything. We didn't cover anything with this law. We must all come together if it is possible to reach an agreement would be more than good to build a new territorial structure, and then of course new criteria that will determine whether any settlement can be independent, whether it can be a municipality or could be a city. Not to mention that according to the existing law that we now have, we have guaranteed local committees a certain and financial, and even administrative independence that it has spent very little environments in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps those larger cities that have formed 4, but most cities have failed to do so. Therefore, when you look at the local board guaranteeing local self-government, it is practically evident that we are not achieving that synergy effect of all levers and levels of government. And that's why I think we can support this today, and we don't need anything important to happen, but I'm sure there's a new law and a new territorial structure in front of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34578	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34579	I would correct my colleague, Chehok,' when he said this is not how we can discuss this law. We in opposition can. He's in power, and he shouldn't argue like that, because he should try to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34580	Honorable representative Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34581	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club always had very clear views, views, he always thought he was a mediator, that he was in charge of promoting all those interests, all those desires and all those demands that the citizens instructed you in this high house, i.e. our tasks and we must communicate and have direct cooperation, but also responsibility in terms of the transfer of those needs that individual units of local self-government have. Therefore, we have supported and we will support all those requirements that are based on the legitimate demands of our citizens so wherever they are and in any space. Of course, we have always advocated and we will advocate sustainability, the development of local self-government, based not only on space, not only on population numbers, but also on other interests that every organised society must have. Of course, the economic community is something that in itself implies that it can be maintained and that it can also fulfill those tasks that a single unit of local self-government has, and that is reconciliation and as cheap a life as possible for citizens living in those units of local self-government. Often, the principle of efficiency, the principle of better living conditions for our citizens, is often not met. This is a very important reason that after 13 years of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia finally tries very responsibly and metrically to demonstrate what the situation is today in the Republic of Croatia with regard to meeting all those standards that the European Union has and with regard to local self-government. And that is, the most important principle is the satisfaction of the population with the current form and manner of organisation of local self-government. For us at the HSS Club, it is less important how many units of local self-government will be established, whether there will be an association in certain areas of our Republic, but it is much more important that a certain state and certain tendencies are in a state that is daily deuting all of us who want to speak and to advise that in Croatia live very well, better or worse. Weeks are bad, today's message that blue diesel fuel has come to 4 kuna is unacceptable, unacceptable for both fishermen and farmers and for the heavy because it is no longer privileged for gentlemen fuel, it is something that significantly affects the cost. How much water, electricity, utility, compensation costs, that's what citizens are interested in, the fact that the basket, that the cost of living in the past month is increased by 3.2% best says about what the burden is and what can happen to our citizens if we are not only socially sensitive than if we do not correct this trend of unemployment that threatens to endanger this relative macroeconomic stability, which is why we want to support our citizens in their legitimate demands and call on the government to seriously consider the analysis of these 13 years of local self-government but to address seriously the internal burning problems that are increasingly jeopardising the lives and standards of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34582	Thank you. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34583	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This two-day debate in the Croatian Parliament showed how much all MPs care fully about the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, everyone on the development of their own region and it was partly colored with local interests. The government sometimes needs to rise above local and temporary interests and build a system as it believes best suited to the Republic of Croatia. We estimate that the local self-government system in Croatia has succeeded, that it is a successful project, that the units of local self-government that were founded by settlements or groups of settlements that had not previously been municipalities progressed, some more, but all progressed, and therefore here we have proposed that this law establish several new units of local self-government, which, according to the government's assessment, have a chance for success and are based on the will of citizens. Of course, it was trying to impose local interests in a way that the government's initiative was not in line with the law. We know we wrote this 97th Law, we know why we wrote it and what its range is. And I have not defended anyone but the integrity of this Parliament and government and reserved them with the right to regulate this important issue by law. It is true that some citizens' initiatives are not representative bodies, they have considered and avoided considering but it is true, Mr. MP, that the office has not responded to your request and I will demand the responsibility of those who have not responded within the appropriate time limit to your request. All in all we propose, we thank everyone who has supported the adoption of this Law, either entirely, or in its segments. This is one technical, more technical than legal work in the law on areas that have been changed 15 times, there are different titles of the settlement, we relate to the decisions of representative bodies, we cannot change the titles, names of individual settlements, but as the representative bodies have arranged it, so we introduce them because here we are just talking about areas of county, cities and municipalities. There are unusual situations, here, today we heard Pribislavec and the Roma settlement as local committees. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas, County of Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia of 2001 introduced a new municipality of Pribislavec and here I quote: "...in which two local committees of Pribislavec and the Roma settlement Pribislavec enter.". And summed up all this data that we get from the representative bodies of the local self-government units as the titles of the settlement changed, as some settlements were abolished as themselves, some of them were created, we made a whole text for the sake of transparency that we have here, one regional structure of what it is and when we say about the amendments we will probably accept all those changes to the name of the settlement that we didn't know about, which decisions were not delivered to us. Here's my clerk now diligently collect the amendments and read the explanations and collect the decisions of the representative bodies that were made in the meantime, and we will all be able to respect what is real, logically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-18-0.u34584	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And now we're going to vote on a part of the draft laws and other decisions discussed. Please determine the quorum first. Enable the key. We're asking for a result. 89 plus 3, 92, 94 MPs have been identified, so we have a valid quorum to make decisions. We're going to the vote. First, the Final Proposal of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. On the proposal of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, a debate was held with the Final Proposal for Law in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. We can vote. Score. unanimously with 98 votes for the proposed conclusion.
