ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41665	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. Let me explain in short lines the proposal of this law. So, as we all know in 98, a decision of the Constitutional Court on the compensation of pensioners for inadequate indexation, i.e. regulation of pensions, has been made. In 2004, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision was adopted, which further clarifys the way and the possibility of compensation for pensioners through the so-called so-called “retirement” of the so-called “retirement” of pensioners. Special Pension Fund. The pension fund that we define with this law is a special fund that would have the character of an investment fund. What all of us and the public and our pensioners are particularly interested in is the way it works, so let me try to explain it in a few words. So after its formation, which must be completed by 5 August this year, all calculations of the amount of compensation from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office are transferred to the pension fund. As we know so far, the total amount of compensation is moving somewhere in the name of $11.4 billion, and the Constitutional Court Law has established that we will add 2.3 billion to that amount in the name of interest, so the total amount that we pay to pensioners is $13.7 billion. After the Pension Fund has received accounts from HZMO, it shall send all pensioners two documents. The first document is a notice of the amount of compensation while the second document is a statement of acceptance of the method of compensation. With that statement after the pensioner has signed it, he can decide on two possible debt recovery options. The first option is so-called. the accelerated method of payment during the period from 2006 to 2007 with a discount of 50% total compensation. The second method of payment, i.e. compensation, is paid for a nominal amount over an 8-year period of two years, and the Government provides a sufficient portfolio of the fund for the implementation of this obligation. Following the arrival of all declarations in acceptance of the method of compensation, the amount necessary to pay the so-called payment will be determined. speedy and method of payment in eight years. The dynamics of the payment agreed in the negotiations, which was also contained in this bill, says the following: The accelerated method of payment we would start not before 1.4.2006, and in 2006 we would be paid to the pensioners two wars and two wars in 2007. In this way, all those who opt for an accelerated payout would be compensated. All those pensioners who decide to pay off in eight years with two years to start, the first war can expect in the fourth quarter of 2007, and further payments each year in the fourth quarter. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will provide sufficient funds in shares, shares, securities and real estate for payment according to the first or second method, and the fund will be filled in succession depending therefore on the needs and depending on the dynamics of payment from this fund. In this way, we truly believe that in the best possible way, we are also implementing the Constitutional Court's decision and implementing the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. We believe that we will have, we are sure that we will have enough courage, strength to find the funds and eventually return and depriving the pensioners in the best possible way. Here in the shortest lines thank you very much. If there's any questions, I'm at my disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41666	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative PGS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41667	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and Madam and gentlemen of the Government. It's too bad we're gone, because there's an argument that we've come up to commend the government for its intention, haste, and the concrete solutions provided for by this law. However, the need for urgency is clear, resulting from the fact that in the past year and a half, God does not know what has been done except what has been negotiated, but nothing has been done in the past four years, it should also be made clear immediately. What happened to the pensioners was probably not to be called a robbery in public, but all of it is a robbery when it happened and today is the time to vote on how to compensate those people who, in the process of creating this country and later sacrificed a good part of their standard, a good part of their life, a good part of what they have spent over the past tens of years believing in a comfortable and peaceful age, did not welcome it because of various circumstances that need not be analysed today, is neither the moment nor the time, but if anything, at least some of them who have survived this situation, we are obliged to do so today. The very text of the law was obviously done overnight, it's also a fact, it's nothing or secret. Negotiations continued a day or two ago, so I can freely say to the text a series of inaccuracies, vague expressions, some strange syntagms that should be in the final text order, and perhaps a few amendments to correct. It is to assume that the law understands those who have proposed it, to assume that the law is understood by those who have negotiated the provisions of that law, but the law should understand us all here, which is not a fact, and the law should be understood by all Croatian citizens. This text is hard to understand and should definitely be fixed. The reason is that the calculations found that 423 000 034 users, so pensioners become fund members, i.e. acquire a share in the fund and share 13.8 billion kuna. It is now easy to calculate how much it is per member of the fund. Of course, this is not evenly distributed, some countries owe more to some, but when it comes to that so-called. Discont which is the same term strange, there are probably Croatian expressions that could explain the term. The law will cost 8 and a half billion kuna, that is, huge money, but given who that money goes to, and given why that money goes to, if there's something rightly spent money in this country, then it's these 8.5 billion kunas. There are two ways of returning what was taken, one by a quick discount procedure or a 50% reduction, and the other is over a longer term, 6 years of starting, so 8 years in total. If we have firm guarantees that this will really happen within this deadline that the Law provides, both are well dependent on why a pensioner decides with an assessment and his own age and his own needs. The positive in the Law has much, first and most positive fact is that by establishing the Fund of States it clearly states that pensioners have been taken away and that the state has taken away from them and that the state will return what it has taken from them, it is at least fair. Money goes back, so no colorful papers come back, no stock goes back, not even bonds come back, cash comes back, exactly what the pensioners get and get back. The fund is closed, which is also one of the positive features of the fund, so bags and buyers don't stand a chance, can't explicit by law be forbidden to become owners of the Fund's stake in any way. It is also positive that the main emphasis available by the Fund is not on stability but on safety and caution, the conservative nature of investment, which is actually a feature of all the good state investment funds that this is. The company that manages the fund is professionally, therefore, not composed of representatives of the government, one or the boss, but a professional society that deals with fund management and professionally does its job, which should in some way guarantee that nothing will happen on the next political shift, i.e. that the Fund will continue to function as it is imagined. So there won't be procurators or famous intellectual services in huge quantities that they know to eat such good intentions but at the very beginning. Some things are questionable, so I would like to point out here, we at the HNS PGS Club feel it is not clear what is happening to the heirs of the first order in case there is no desert debate. In fact, the pensioners mostly left without a large asset, most of them, if a desert debate was not conducted whether the direct heir succeeds, according to the text of the Law, according to the Law whether the direct heir who did not have a leaven debate inherited what was little, or the obligation of a possible pensioner, whether he became a beneficiary or a member of this Fund. The bill says that the Fund's assets cannot be invested in inalienable assets, i.e. they must not invest in inalienable assets to prevent the Fund's funds from going into private or some strange hands from which money can no longer be recovered. However, it seems unnecessary to me, inalienable property is an asset that is not in legal traffic, if it is not in legal traffic, then you cannot invest in it, you cannot buy shares of non-legislative companies. So, I think that insurance is unnecessary unless it means something else that I didn't understand. The text of the Law also states that the net profits can be distributed to members, the question is whether or not they can. I think it's more favourable for pensioners to be members of the Fund, a formula by which the net profit of the Fund should be distributed to the members of the Fund. Some things are unclear, Article 13 speaks of any person related to the entities referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 of this paragraph, I do not know how that person can be associated with the relationship, the formulation should be carried out in such a way as to clearly see what the applicant had in mind, and he had in mind that in the management of society there could be no one who works or in any way is connected to another investment fund management company and someone who works in the depositary bank where the money stands, should formulate it more easily. In Article 14(2), the downfalls are mixed, so you can't see who is whom and who is concerned, representatives can be appointed and then independent experts, whether they are representatives of independent experts or independent experts, it's not clear what the proposer has in mind here. Article 16(2) also does not make it clear to me at all that it implies that the prohibition applies to persons who are in a working committee or other similar relationship with entities referred to in this paragraph and in that paragraph there is no other than the company or board of directors of the fund, whether they concern them. Article 18 at the end of the first verse lacks an expression of retirement, because now it is not seen what kind of calculation is, what difference is that, I guess, the difference in pensions I guess. It also states in Article 34(8) that the company will provide an information prospectus to any person who has a membership in the Fund, so it does not say that, I think, it would be good to formulate the way in which members of the Fund will receive whether public information or by any other means, in any case, it would be good to formulate how this will be achieved. Finally, what seems crucial to me, I did not find in the text of the Law a clear and precise guarantee that the fund will function, or in what way the Fund members will come to their money, if there is difficulty in the business of the fund if the Government puts securities, privatised companies in the Fund, and that value becomes questionable or decreases significantly whether the Government gives a guarantee that no matter what happens with the operation of the pension fund, the pensioners will be able to reach their assets. All in all, we believe that this is a good attempt that needs to be supported in any case, a way that is agreed and agreed with the pensioner party and with the pensioners' associations, the way in which an old injustice will at least be partially and at least according to the part of the population under which it was committed to correct. For this reason, we will support the proposal of this law and we appeal to the promoter to make these changes simply because of the functionality of the bill itself and to make things clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41668	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41669	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague who interpreted Article 18, paragraph 11. It's all clear there, and it was always right. Namely, if an heir inherits something, it can only be proved by a court ruling after the death of the deceased and otherwise could never be proved. And so that part must be reported in the desert mass, and then the solution will also determine the deceased that this is the first inheritance order and that he is entitled to that part of the pension. It was always right to be clear and in the name of law, so there would be no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41670	Thank you. DC club, HSLS, LS respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41671	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues! I will share this debate with Mr. Zlatko Kramarić, who in the second part will speak the same in the name of the club. In the summer of 1968, Neil Amstrong, the first man to walk with his foot or human foot on the moon, said that famous sentence: "This is a great step for man but even greater for mankind." It's good, I'm correcting, "A small step for a man but great for humanity." Paraphrasing this famous sentence, this statement in the context of the Croatian government's decision and the agreement with the pensioners to go into the establishment of this fund that we are discussing here today and we are deciding we could say this, in view of the decision to return borrowed pension money and their pensions, that this is a big step for the pensioners but even bigger for Croatia. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Why? I say it my way. Why? No matter how long the negotiations took, we still have that result. Retired people will get their money, but without the rule of law, there is not a single branch of life that in our country can thus be developed without the rule of law. This country finally has the strength to take this decisive step to get out of the great social trauma that has been used for years in our mutual political accounts. With the help of this trauma today, some in Croatia enjoy the ruling or opposition position to say so. Within a year in Croatia, the satisfaction of those who have been systematically frustrated has been solved by two traumas. The first is the trauma of Croatian defenders by passing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the trauma of Croatian pensioners by adopting this Pension Fund Act. Those concerned by these laws do not hide their satisfaction with what has been offered here, however, there are those who have been satisfied, but have now become less loud because they will lose their political position that they have built on the criticism of the ruling regardless of who they ruled, precisely because of this pension fund. Not entering the reasons why, at that time, the pensioners borrowed money for a time, I hold that the Croatian Parliament in which both the position and the opposition sits should in one appropriate way be thanked to Croatian pensioners for their patience and understanding. Since most of the borrowed pension money ended up financing the Homeland War, the Croatian Parliament should give recognition to the pensioners and their associations for helping finance the Homeland War as one of the major domestic donors. If we thanked the various foreign donors and sponsors of the appropriate recognitions, we must do so in an adequate way and thank the pensioners of Croatia, especially those who are not alive today, did not welcome the return of their borrowed funds but I believe that their successors will enjoy it. Unfortunately, there were also those who were the tenacity of the pensioners on demand for debt returns and the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision to interpret how they actually ate the future of their grandsons by looking for borrowed funds. Once again on behalf of the club, I would like to thank all Croatian pensioners, their negotiators and the Croatian government for coming to a solution which, as a society, releases another unnecessary trauma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41672	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41673	I'd fix a respected colleague. Three times in a row, he said it was borrowed money. There was no loan agreement between the pensioners and the state, these money was taken and not borrowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41674	Thank you. The Croatian Party Retired Party Club is a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. And what do you share? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, excuse me. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41675	Thank you. Whether it was a small step or a big step, but obviously it was necessary to do it because all of us here in this House are carrying part of a moral responsibility that has passed for seven, eight years, and it is certainly good that today the law is in front of us, as much as we as as we as politicians and advocates were anxiously expecting that the pensioners expected it even more impatiently. And indeed, this law is the result of negotiations. Whether they were difficult, easy it is now another thing, between retirement associations, individual parties and the Government of the Republic of Croatia but it is important that I think that we all participated and completed the necessary additional political pressure to get rid of this. To assume that all the issues that are being settled in this law are still in line between the government and future beneficiaries of the fund. This law lays down the pension fund, the way in which the assets are managed, the way in which the assets are acquired, the criteria for the availability of the shares of the fund, the compensation from the assets of the fund, the accounting system, reporting on the portfolio of the fund as well as a number of other issues relevant to its functioning. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall establish a fund and its users shall be pensioners who, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, belong to the payment of the difference in pensions for the period of time established by the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The fund is a closed type which means that its users are only pensioners, or heirs to the first inheritance order. It is also, by its nature, a special property without legal personality supervised by the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia and founded indefinitely and cannot be transformed into a closed investment fund. All items provide a guarantee that the Fund will be used precisely and solely for the purpose of which the fund is established and what gives certainty to its users, that payments will be made within the time limits laid down by law. It is good that the government has actually taken over one part of the very dangerous risk, which is that it guarantees for those who will not agree to this 50% immediately rather than what it does in some way take over and what usually should be the risk of the fund because whether it will work successfully or not it is always a matter of certain movements on the financial market. We believe that the establishment of the fund is well set up in this way, the more the proposed way, as well as all the settings laid down by law, is agreed by their users, i.e. the Croatian Association of Retired People. I also consider the fund's commitment to report, in its business with its assets at least once a year, this House because it ensures transparency of a business and introduces what is very important and parliamentary control over the fund. This is very important because it is expected to accumulate significant financial resources in the fund. The Fund is managed by a fund management company, based on the Commercial Society Act, and has the authority to choose a depositary bank. So the company can decide on any bank but the suggestion is that the LS, DC and HSLS Club be the one entirely owned by Croatia. Because we think that in some way it would give additional security to the users of the fund. Otherwise, it's a special subject. The topic is precisely the problem of the ownership of our banks which I say very little, very little of ours and it certainly has a whole series of negative tests on certain economic financial movements. I consider the possibility of breaking the contract between the companies and the depositary bank a quality solution, since the fund is based on unlimited time and during the cooperation of the company and the depositary bank there may be some disagreements between the misunderstandings and I say then it is good that there is a possibility that this contract can be terminated. It is also the obligation of the company to issue, by 31 March of each year at the latest, the information prospectus of the pension fund with information until 31 December of the preceding year because, through such an information prospectus, its customers will receive the most necessary information on both the fund and its portfolio, the size of the underlying capital, the company’s auditor, the annual company’s financial statements and audited by an authorised auditor, the principles and investment strategy, as well as a number of other data relevant to its users. Finally, it can be established and this law meets the intensities expressed during the long-standing effort of the pensioners and will then be supported by the LS, DC and HSLS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41676	Thank you very much. HSU counseling club. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41677	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult to begin to discuss and in some way elaborate the whole issue of this fund and how it has been created in the past year, which has been the subject of negotiations on the model and property of this fund, which is being implemented by the Constitutional Court since 12 May 1998. But we will begin, yet I would dare to give a brief introduction and try to analyze why this problem occurred. In the period 1993 to 1998, no one disputed Croatia's need for money in one defence war but something else happened, and it happened in a way that more than the law was passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which it gave priority to the regulations on the laws. This came naturally in the legal procedure was such a procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia disputed and thus there was a denial of part of the property to Croatian, Croatian pensioners. The Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May 1998 speaks clearly in 98th that Croatian pensioners were damaged in the period 1999 to 1998 and that the Croatian state was obliged to compensate them. Therefore, the Constitutional Court decided that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has to calculate the differences and pay the pensioners, which means that the Constitutional Court gave one other category and another value to that damage suffered by Croatian pensioners and essentially obliges the State to deprive them. What my humble court should have done in 1998 was to calculate the individual difference and define the compensation model of course in the context of the Constitutional Court Decision and this is in line with economic possibilities. However, this was not done in 1998, it cost the highest political maximum on the pensioners' initiative because you know that in the autumn of 1998 there was quite a protest in Croatia to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, unfortunately the problem went wrong. The problem has begun to be solved in a collective way and in a solid, social way. I don't even say I don't argue that it was necessary back then in 1998 but wrongly if it approaches a single pension right. Because pension is an individual pension right, it is that everyone has been taken, that is, denied a pension at a percentage amount but are absolute, absolute amounts are significantly different since they depend on the amount of pension. So it started with one collective approach, it started with 100 kuna, 100 kuna and 6%. This was all paid up until April 2004 when amendments to the Peace Law entered into the retirement foundation. Of course, the 2000 coalition government, I'm sorry, to return to that 100 kuna and 6%. The same should be fair, and it should be said that 100 kuna and 6% at the same time were accounted for as a refund of certain obligations of the state towards the Ministry of Peace and at the same time it was calculated as a repayment of debt to pensioners and it was written in legal acts but that was also interpreted by the Constitutional Court as a contribution of the Croatian State to the compensation of pensioners. So, legally, all of these actions that we've been doing right now are well founded. Furthermore, the coalition government also introduced a certain increase in pensions of between 05 and 20% from pension settlement titles due to the different conditions and time of retirement and, of course, those amounts were also accounted for at the same time as the pension basis and by the interpretation of the Constitutional Court and as a contribution from the Croatian State to the return or compensation of pensioners. We, i.e. the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision, included those two categories in the total calculation of this debt. Again, it returns to the fact that access to debt resolution was wrong because this has always been and always been a key issue for every legalist, not a social issue. This was a question of testing the functioning of the rule of law, not of the social states. Social models are something else. So after finally with the new government, with the new government that I am grateful for being able to deal with this problem, there has been a twist and a final move to calculate the debt individually by each user and to make a final reckoning. Unfortunately, it went to the detriment of all those who had the right to do so in 1998, and in the meantime, by August 5, 2004, they died. Unfortunately for them, this right is permanently or irreversibly lost. So we give the dimension of the total project. According to some calculations and the former minister, counterpart Vidovic, whose same data I used and the total amount that turns out to be paid back by the total debt that would return under the conditions that everyone would decide to pay off for 8 years would be 32.5 billion, billions of kuna. It's not small, it's not small money. I'm using calculations that somehow came from HZMO on the condition that a certain number of people and probably wants to decide on a settlement in terms of faster payments then it's going to be around somewhere, according to our estimates somewhere around 26.27 billion kuna in total since the debt started to be paid through these models. There have been proposals here and for this assembly that the debt must be paid in cash, that state guarantees, government bonds must be issued. Of course it was nice stories for our audience, our audience, our voters, our citizens. The possibility of such a debt settlement in this amount of money needed to solve this problem has never been possible for the state of Croatia, at once, to solve it, but by finding such models, has contributed to the problem in some way in segments. Let me also say about this, this Fund, which has really come up in some way in light of the long-term negotiations, long-term tensions, and I can say that we as representatives of the Croatian Party of pensioners have had some other ideas about this whole project, ideas to create a single fund that would be a long-term stabiliser of the pension system, however, and our law, which we passed on on 15 July last year, limited us in solutions because in this law we provided that the fund was established exclusively for the settlement of pensioners' compensation, and not for others, so that this option of the special Investment Fund, where we insisted and ultimately agreed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, no matter what the model of the Investment Fund, had to guarantee that the pensioners would be compensated in those amounts for which we were committed and that the Government would guarantee it. Secondly, on which we have insisted, we have insisted on the precise deadlines until which the pensioners must be informed, by which deadlines the agreements or statements must be concluded, or which model the beneficiary of the compensation is assigned and also the deadlines within which the final dimension of the project must be obtained and transferred, the property must be reserved by the Government and transferred to the Fund, the Pension Fund. So, of course, payout deadlines are very important and they are determined here. For the first variant of faster payments, so the maximum payment deadline for the first payment is 30 June 2006, and the deadline for a possible second payment if no more payments are made in the meantime is the end of 2007, and for the variant 8 years of which are two payouts and 6 payments, payment in, 6 equal meals of 16.47% start of payment is the fourth quarter of 2007, and the end of payment is in 2012 with a guaranteed, guaranteed payment of nominal, nominal amount. Therefore, of course, this Law has possible and disadvantages because I admit that we have worked at the last moment and until the last moment there have been some issues opened, but I hope that the representatives of the Government and the Ministry of Finance as proponents will correct that part and that, possibly, amendments to some things will be corrected if they are nomotechnical, nomotechnical or, or contental. Of course, we will also comb it once more if it is necessary to propose certain amendments as well. So much for this project, I wouldn't go in and out about all the details that were in the negotiations because there were nice but painful situations. In any case, it wasn't easy, it wasn't, but here we came to this final result and of course the quality of this result is going to be your first trial, but I hope that in the interest of the final solution to this problem that you will all or that we will all support this or that there will be very few who will not support this, this project. The Croatian party of pensioners as an active participant in the negotiation process and as a party that has made a major contribution to resolving this problem will surely support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41678	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41679	Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Hrelja, said that in 1993 this story happened and that our pensioners had been denied and denied. I think it's incorrect that it was just them. I have to tell you, we lived in that time and followed well and looked after, so I'll just mention another group among almost all these are experts, teachers, medical scientists, they're university professors, primaryiuses we get salaries, they get salaries of 130 marks. So I simply think it's incorrect that they were denied and these, but I'm inclined to say that it was the contribution of our pensioners to the moment of the country that was. And for that I am always grateful, of course, to everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41680	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41681	Your Honor, Mr. President, it doesn't say that the state couldn't resolve the debt through bonds. I have no doubt that we will all vote for this law. But this isn't just the Debt Reimbursement Act. This Law is a consensus on the full sale of the Republic of Croatia and the INA and Croatie insurance and ACY and HT and everything else and therefore between the bonds and the complete sale of the Republic of Croatia IDS chooses bonds that are the same money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41682	HDZ Club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41683	Honored Mr. President, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministries. The Croatian Democratic Community club is very pleased to support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that came before us, because it is a proposal that is brave, which is just and which solves one problem that has been imposed not only as a financial problem in the country for the past eight years but as one of the main political problems. It is as you know about the large financial debt decision of the Constitutional Court to calculate the debt of 13 billion and 700 million kuna, of which interest is 2 billion and 300 million kuna and that is the debt that will be felt as one of the largest items in the state budget in the coming years. The Court’s decision refers to the period 1993 to 1998 when pensions grew slower than wages and the Constitutional Court felt that this was precisely because of what we heard, which the Government had resolved with decisions certain things and regulations which otherwise were dealt with by law and was then considered to be much more just in the legal procedure and not to result in such disproportionate wages towards pensions during that period. But there's very little to say here why it came to that. If it had come, we agree. To make it right, it's a consensus. But here we heard some statements particularly from the representatives of the HNS PGS club, statements that must follow blood in the veins of the man who survived the Homeland War, and statements come down to the fact that it was a robbery, that it was an injustice and that it was kidnapped money. Yeah, but you should say from who. Not from the Croatian government as it is insinuated here and as it is often heard. That is, it was a robbery and a kidnapping of money as well as everything that was robbed and kidnapped in Serbia's aggression during the Homeland War. I must remind you that is the period when gross national income fell by 50% in just six months during 1992. This is the biggest drop in the gross national income of a European country since World War II. Such a decline in gross national income requires victims of all and there are pensioners in this sense the victim and here is the HDZ Club again expressing its gratitude for the contribution to the Homeland War because the pensioners were an age group that could not contribute differently but in this way which is just as important and as valuable as those warriors' contributions on the first front line. That is why it should be said that at that time they gave their pain to many. As fellow Turkish said, both scientists and workers and peasants. Namely, everyone's salary was halved at the time. The biggest debt was paid by those who are no longer among us because they were killed, then by those who will have consequences for life because they are severely disabled. The debt is also paid by those who lost their jobs because at that time grenades, rockets and other weapons and tools destroyed half of the Croatian economy, half of the infrastructure, production plants, people remained on the streets. And they're victims and there's a debt to them that, of course, will never be paid. But when we talk about our pensioners, it is just and right to pay back that debt because it is possible to pay back in money. But I remind you that the Croatian state is paying back other debts. I quote Minister Shuker who recently calculated that both this year and last and before, and every year, the result of the war goes from the budget to about 7 billion kuna. It's all about paying back the debt to those who died in Serbia's aggression. Debt to those who build houses, debts to those who are paid disability, who are paid pensions, etc. So the weight of the budget is almost 10% a year, and that weight is called the consequences of the Homeland War and the defense. Why did this debt happen? Because the then government had to organise and it should be stressed, that the government did not kidnap the debt, did not kidnap the pensioners because it wanted this injustice, but the then government had to organise a defence against the aggression in which Europe's fifth army, the Yugoslav People's Army, participated, and this was to endure not only military and organisational but also financially. And let me remind you that even the biggest relief action "Storm" has been made without budget rebalancing, and how much it cost to each other on occasion because now there is no time. Unfortunately, our pensioners too had to pay a share of that debt, and we're sitting still that we were under the international arms supply embargo and that we paid the weapons at a double and triple price from the real market to defend the state. When we look at this debt, it is indeed a political problem, and therefore we should congratulate the government not only on fulfilling the pre-election promises but also on courage, because it enters these expenditures with the budget we have and the courage, but the government has its own budget calculation for next year and it will know how to settle it. In the bill of law, justice should also be pointed out as much as pensioners can choose whether to cash with a discount, whether the entire amount will be with a certain period of time. With this justice, it should be pointed out that there are, of course, pensioners who have not experienced such a fair solution, and they are victims of this war and are also to be thanked for this occasion. To them and their families and heirs. In this law that solves this great debt, it should also be pointed out that the previous governments had neither the courage nor the knowledge nor the organisational capacity to enter into serious negotiations with the pensioners. Negotiations with pensioners, including our colleagues here representing the pensioners' party, lasted over a year and can only say with great pride that they were not the negotiations of the two opponents, that they were not the negotiations of the two opposing parties, that they were the negotiations of two partners who knew they were correcting the common injustice, that they had a common task of correcting it and that the injustice was finally satisfied. Because of what I said, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law which, of course, has certain technical disadvantages because it was done in a hurry. Why was it done in a hurry? It is precisely because now is the moment when the Ministry of Finance is already starting budget projections for next year and needs to know which calculator elements it has and therefore both the Minister and the Vice-President must know before the summer what the next budget will look like. That's why it's an emergency procedure. That's why we support this emergency procedure. Finally, we thank again the pensioners who gave their great pain to free Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41684	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41685	Thank you, Mr. President. It is doubtless that all Croatian citizens have contributed to the defence of the Republic of Croatia as well as Prof. The Turk said. But this is about what the Government of the Republic of Croatia did and what was recognised by mistake, by the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So it's not any courage to act on the Constitutional Court's decision, it's simply an obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41686	Thank you. At 10 o'clock, the Vice-President of the War Veterans Committee called a session at the Ivan Kukuljevic Hall, so I ask the members of the Committee to have that in mind. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41687	Mr. President of the Assembly, gentlemen of the Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In my first sentence, I would like to say that the SDP Club supports the bill's proposal, which is more so than it has come as a consequence or a result of the agreement between pension societies and the government. I say so more, because in this law, as has been the case several times so far, it is determined that this Law solves the decision of the 98 Constitutional Court. It was really important that a matter that had been hit by pensioners in this country in one way or another for a few years. As discussed here several times in the debates, as it also states in the Debt Recovery Act last year, certain efforts have been made in this regard and, as is known by the end of 2003, 17 billion of that debt has already been paid back. I welcome on behalf of the Club, therefore, the effort to talk about a debt that was difficult to determine, in fact, what amount it was, ends up in a better and more productive way for Croatian pensioners. However, I could stand by this, I remember one story by Ivana Brlić-Mažuranić, as Potjeh sought the truth, if anyone remembers these stories, three sons went to learn about the world, so the old Slavic God Bessomor, the wicked god, put one in each pocket, once said that he would be the most powerful, the other that he would be the richest and the third that he would be the wisest. These rich and powerful took the advice of their devilish anger in their pocket, and the Path went to seek the truth of what had happened with Potteh, leaned into the well and drowned. So I mention the questions not wanting to fall into a well that will likely have to be taken into account and responsibility for the answers to our questions will have to be taken over by those who have concluded this partnership, and these questions are next. For example, how much is this debt, how much is that debt? We don't know that. How'd it go? We don't even know that. How much has it been returned? We don't even know that. It's been mentioned 17 billion since the end of 2003, but since the laws on 100 kuna and 6% that have entered the basics of pension and the Law on the increase of pensions based on differences, that strange name continued to pay off, whether it is further accounted for or not, or whether the line is thought to have been underlined last year when we passed the Law, I now assume it, I don't know. And this is taken as a new one and last year is taken as a dead line when a new debt is calculated. Why does it matter? This is an important issue for the government and for the pension insurance that will be paid, it is important because the debt is individualised, every pensioner will get the paper and every pensioner will have to be on the basis of something or accept or regret. What he's going to complain about, whether it's going to open court disputes, because no one has a mandate on behalf of anyone else unless he's been given written authority to negotiate anything. I'm warning you of a problem that may arise. The questions in how the investment fund will function, who will keep that money, how it will be paid, are likely to be less or more actual and important the moment we see how the pensioners have been assigned, whether for this one-time return, or one-time payment in 4 wars, in two years, or with this grace period of 2 years, we will have to see this only. There could still be a lot of questions about this, obviously here is a statement of the political will of the two parties if we adopt it unanimously and consensually in this House, then probably by consensus of political parties and this Parliament, and it should be kept in mind. The question arises, and you can be sure that you will get it, as has turned out to be 260 thousand people from the calculation, if they are said to have been returned, they must be told that they have been returned, which, by what means, you have to say it. You have to explain how differences will occur, newspapers have operated with numbers from a few tens to as many as 100,000 kunas. I've been called by the press these days asking if I know who's gonna get those damages. I don't know, I don't even know how it was calculated, I don't know if anyone knows. The introduction didn't tell us anything about it, there's no information about it all covered by a veil of secrets. But as the Path seeks truth falls into the well, I ask these questions and the answers must be given by this government. I support that we end the debt story and warn of another major problem that now the unacceptable difference between the old and the new pensioners will become even bigger. We cannot escape from the story and demands of new pensioners, when we talk about a difficult retirement position then we think about these new pensioners, there are already over 300 thousand of them, and there will be more and more of them every day and their pensions are falling behind, we will have to start and open up a debate in this country about this perfectly expensive social security system where pension expenditures have reached 25 billion kuna, the truth one data you don't know is now expenditure for pensions somewhere around 12.7% of gross social product, two years ago they were almost 14.13.87%. In the explanation of the adoption of these laws, the unsustainability of these expenditures is mentioned. Indeed 13 billion or 14 how much money is now being calculated, it is almost half the Zagreb-Split highway. When we make these decisions, we should certainly keep that in mind, but the most important message we can send with this is that debts must be paid and that in the competent countries this rule applies to the individual, to the company and to the state. If we have done so and do so with this step in this direction we do well, but we are doing so with as few outstanding questions as possible because the law we made in 2000 is also fulfilled in Article 1 of this Constitutional Court decision. As you can see, the Constitutional Court's decision has obviously not been fulfilled. Try to close, my well-intentioned suggestion, try to close any problems that will arise and that we really absorb this story and turn to solving the difficult situation of the pensioners in one way. There's been a lot of entropy in this system. For 15 years, it's actually been a failure of this system that's turned into a one-provision project where pensions are divided by ten laws, I'm cartooning a little bit, it's not exactly ten, but it's over. Every group pulled out has its rights. There's no such thing in any country in the world. It is too big a job to be able to easily cross over or to use the fact that these problems in a cheap political way for pre-election demagogues or other purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41688	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41689	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting a tragic inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague and a former minister who says you don't know what debt it is. It is known in 1998 how long it is, it is known that the calculations have long been in the safes of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. When the former minister says so, it's already tragic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41690	Second correction by the respected representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41691	Your Honor, I have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first correction is not for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to pay back the money but for the pension fund to have a relationship with the pensioners and pay back the money. Another incorrect assumption is that no one has a mandate to negotiate this issue. I think that the Croatian Party of Retired and Retired Associations have a mandate to negotiate and they have done so on this issue only about the model and within and above the law. The Croatian Party of Retired and Retired Associations has no mandate to negotiate anything under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41692	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41693	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues from the government, MPs and MPs! I truly thank everyone from the heart for, I dare say, a constructive dialogue and a debate on this subject. There's no need for my opinion to go through the text of this law again, to give clarifications again, but allow me just a few things. Therefore, as regards the amount of total compensation and method of calculation, the method of calculation is defined by the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, Article 3 of that Law defined the criteria and by these criteria the Croatian Pension Insurance Office has made these calculations and believe them are correct. Article 1 of this Act speaks of the full implementation of the Constitutional Court’s decision by forming or adopting this law and implementing the pension fund. I think I have answered the two most important questions of Mr. Vidovic's life. Believe me, the pension fund of this kind negotiated law provides a framework for an absolutely legal and accounting model and we need to give it all the support we need together. The path certainly won't drown because of this, and as much as it seems to anyone, this isn't small but a big step, and it's a big step for all of us, and that's how we need to understand it. Thank you very much. And please support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41694	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41695	So I'm correcting Mr. Deputy Prime Minister in one detail. In fact, the height of the debt is calculated the height of the return but the height of the debt is not such an uncontested issue. Why isn't it undeniable? Because we don't know if there's interest involved. If the interest is included, there are ten ways to make that interest. It was determined last year before the debt was calculated at 2 billion and 300 million kuna. Last year in law, we found the first interest, so we said we'd be calculating the debt. It's still about the approximations, but it's about the decision. For God, we did calculations, so one was 23 billion, one was 35, one was 40, and there were ways as interest was calculated in Croatia to raise that debt to over 100 billion. That's why the thing in that sense had to be arbitration in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41696	Thank you. I report that at 10 o'clock and 7 minutes it expired during the application for a ten-minute hearing on this agenda point. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41697	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The HSP Club will support the adoption of this law. The HSP club just reminds us that we rightists were the first to make clear after the Constitutional Court's decision that part of the debt to the pensioners should be paid back into cash and part of the bonds and it could be done that the state was not robbed in conversion and privatisation. The problem is war but the problem of other nature was because the state was robbed in conversion and privatisation. And we know for ourselves that the number of pensioners has increased by 400-500 thousand and everything else. Therefore, if there had been a smart policy, if it hadn't been for the robbery of conversion and privatisation, that would have been much easier for me today. It's good that it's getting rid of finally, and we're glad to hear that everyone here today is saying that it's not about the debt, it's about the debt, because we've been saying from the beginning it's about the debt of the pensioners, not that they're being compensated. It can only be damaged if there's a debt. We also have to say that there are two problems. The first problem will be that unfortunately, many pensioners will be uncomfortable when they get home debt calculation because they all expect it to be far more. So it's going to be the first unpleasant surprise for all the pensioners when they get the calculation then they'll see that's not what they expected. Another problem in all this will be that when they commit themselves to either the first version of the so-called version. speeded up, whether or not there is a guarantee that it will be implemented. We ourselves know how many laws have been passed in this Croatian Assembly and we know for ourselves when a budget is adopted to put a clause in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Here, this year no funds are provided for those intentions. The question is how this fund will work, whether the fund will succeed in providing the part of the funds that will be needed means if it is about this accelerated debt recovery variant, whether it can be realised during 2006 and 2007, or whether it will need to react from the state budget because the fund as a fund, we know what the role and tasks of the fund are, but it is questionable whether it will work immediately so that all the funds will be able to be provided both in time and in time and in the amounts planned. And then we'll come to that legal situation when it's brought state or here that maybe it'll happen that we're going to extend, so that means we move the payout deadlines and transfer it to another future government. The law itself is true for a better speedier, it is visible here that it is really fast though it was working on that law, it was a promise that it would be right away only last year at this time that it would be directed, or at the latest in September and then it was prolonged and so it was really legally rapid. 'Cause look, I'm gonna look back on behalf of the club on the first two terms. The first provision, Article 1, says, "This Law establishes a pension fund."and then he says, "in Article 2, the founder of the fund... Republic of Croatia, Government of the Republic of Croatia.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if a fund is set up, then the fund is founded by this law. We know ourselves that neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the Ministry have a status, or legal personality, for them is the State, the Republic of Croatia. So it is already evident in the first two articles that basic alphabetical legal concepts are mixed. Now that the government is setting up this fund, who's starting the fund now, us or the government? Is the trust now established or will the government still establish it? Well, I guess it's Parliament, if we bring this bill, then we're setting up a fund! And we can charge the government to register that fund. And this is how it turns out that again you don't know who's setting up the fund, is the fund now founded when we say it today or isn't founded? So it is already evident that it is quick that the first two articles do not hold water and are not legally clean. And so now, again comes that part of our skepticism so that all of this doesn't turn back after a certain time into a prolonging, there will come a payment of foreign debts, this will come, there will come that variant, and again it could happen the variant that it goes back to the burden of the pensioners and we ourselves know what their position today is, what their standard is today. And now that we take this second variant to be reduced, it goes the other way to solve the question, this so-called. Swiss model of pension harmonisation, and we know ourselves that most pensioners have an average pension of about 1600 kuna with a protective allowance. And when it's all taken, when they get... to see that many of them had nothing to gain, though they almost had to pay the state that they were overpaid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when these other ones get that amount from 1500 to 2000 kuna that they're going to get something petty, miserable, and when they're reassessed by this part of the pension account, then they're going to be really embarrassed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41698	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41699	I am pleased to see the esteemed colleague Kovacevic having a happy discussion about the debt. However, the Constitutional Court's decision and the Law on its implementation speak of compensation not debt. It's a long colloquial term that we use here and I would appeal to use legal terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41700	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41701	My colleague Vuljanic just stole my correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41702	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41703	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the distinguished representative Kovacevic said it was the government's debt, the government that robbed the pensioners. Well, Mr. Kovacevic, you would then be correcting an incorrect assumption, not the government's debt that robbed the pensioners because you were then an assistant minister in that government, and as a decent man, I think you would have prevented it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41704	The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41705	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed a year ago the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decision of 12 May 1998, which regulates the return of debt to pensioners through a separate fund, we were very critical because even the promoter did not know what this fund would look like, what would make its property and when and how the debt would return. Despite the lack of vision in the Law, it is clearly said that the Fund will start work one year after the entry into force of the Law. It is also clearly defined that the fund will be established under a special law. For a full year, we have witnessed the withdrawal, the withdrawal of the government's negotiations with retired associations, the announcement of the coalition's breakup due to the delay in the formation of the fund, and all of this is to this day, or the last day of the regular session of this Parliament's spring session. Because of the seriousness of this issue because of our political competence towards the coalition partners of the bill, we should have received a few days earlier so that we could consult with that part of the pensioners who have entrusted us with representing their interests with their votes. Unfortunately, we got the bill last night and we're discussing it this morning. Therefore, here is an apology to all pensioners for the inability to consult even though this possibility did not come with our guilt, it is obvious that the motioner wanted to make a quick quick parliamentary debate and the hands of the parliamentary majority to pass the law just as they proposed it regardless of what the pensioners thought of him who gave their trust and the opposition bloc. Retired people who have made their pension according to the rules of individual farmers but by law implementing the Constitutional Court decision are exempt from the right to repay their debt, they do not have the right to repay what the state has taken from them in the time period of 93 to 98. With this proposal, the Government sent the peasants a clear message. You peasants are second-class citizens to us, all pensioners will have the right to repay their debt but not just because you have obtained the right to retire by laying down the rules on pension insurance for individual farmers. Your pensions will continue to be up to 500 kuna, and you will pay with the will of the parliamentary majority of the voted administrative fee for the health care service, thereby having to pay travel expenses for coming to the doctor but with all that amount you will have to scrutinise to bury you because the parliamentary majority has abolished your right to compensation for funeral expenses. How are you going to accomplish that miracle I don't know, but the current government says it's possible. So to the peasants the pensioners this fund doesn't apply. This fund does not apply to our calculation either, and this is what the Government has acknowledged to 600,000 other pensioners because the draft law provides that the basis for the acquisition of membership rights in the fund makes the calculation of the difference in accordance with Articles 3 and 4. The law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. On this basis, the right to compensation and the right to membership in the fund has been acquired by 423 thousand pensioners. As there are over a million pensioners in Croatia, we wonder who is the 600 thousand who have not acquired the right to compensation. It's those pensioners who have the lowest pensions. And if that's not what the Proposer's saying now, but from the government circles, we've heard that the debt is returned to them. While we also assured the government and the parliamentary majority that the former coalition government was based on the Law on the Increase of Pensions to eliminate differences in levels achieved in different periods from 1.1.2001 to 31.12.2004, we are now recognised by the Government. That is precisely why it is the calculation of the compensation of €11 billion 463 million, not those announced by over 25 billion. This proposal offers two means of return. First during the first two years of the Fund, but then the pensioners would get only 50% or half of their rights. And another way all right, but with an eight-year deadline. Those who choose a faster return route and give up 50% of the amount they are entitled to under this proposal will receive the first war by 30.6 at the latest but next year. And the last one by the end of 2007. So there's no payout as soon as it's promised. Nevertheless, we are convinced that the majority of the half of the right will be denied even though it will wait another year for the first payment. The government's assessment that this will be decided by only 50% of the pensioners we keep unreal. Although this bill is somewhat more precise, there is still no lack of an unknown. Article 20 states: "The government of the Republic of Croatia in the assets of the Fund brings in money, shares, shares, bonds and real estate."The shares and shares of which companies do not yet know this because the applicant says: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia will make a reservation of shares intended for the Fund by a special decision by 31 December 2003 at the latest." Once again, the all-powerful government that assumes the role of the legislator. Shares can be successful capital companies that will bring dividends, but can also be worthless companies whose shares do not even have market values. So the unknown who was earlier remains and beyond. The Fund, which is a private asset without legal personality, is managed by a fund management company. Who founded it we don't know, but we do know that all management members have to be employed in full-time society. The Management Board, which numbers 9 members, shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here are new reasons for fear. The fund is run by a company actually run by the government. The law says that society, society, is obliged to manage the fund or its property with the care of a cautious, orderly and conscientious businessman. What if it doesn't? What if the experience from the time of privatised capital companies was repeated when representatives of the Peace Insurance Boards were sitting on the boards to protect the interests of the pensioners, and in reality they were protecting the interests of the majority owner until the collapse of the capital society and, of course, the pension shares in them. We remember that the Mirovinski Fund received shares in every company with the aim of making a dividend on the basis of which pensions would be paid. The audit showed that 80% of the companies' capital had failed, and with them, of course, stocks. It's probably just that we're being told that the company is responsible for the damage done to the Fund. We're wondering what? It is likely to be up to the height of its core capital of 5 million kuna and, moreover, Article 7(2) says: "The society corresponds to the members of the Fund for the damage caused by the failure or inappropriate fulfillment of its obligations unless the failure or immeasurable fulfillment stems from circumstances for which it does not correspond and if business has led to the care and attention of the orderly and conscientious economic operator." It is obvious that there is no liability, and the risk is too high. Now it's clear why the government doesn't want to give a guarantee or a branch? Viewing the law as a whole, it is unclear why he received the support of the Croatian party of pensioners because promises of progress and guarantees nothing. Of course, we are now expected to express our position on whether the Croatian Peasant Party can accept this Act and we have thought for a long time about whether to accept such a law that is unsettled, risky, incomplete and excludes those pensioners who have the lowest pension. I said among them are peasants who usually have up to 500 kuna, but not just peasants. Pensioners who worked in businesses full-time 35 years or 40 years and have pensions of up to 1000 kuna have also been excluded. There's not very few of them. Let's get the data, and we'll see. They were excluded from the debt repayment by reason that they had been paid back. However, despite this said Croatian peasant party will support this bill for one single reason. He's got the consent of pensioners' associations. Unsatisfactory ones who will remain aware of their dissatisfaction will have to ask someone else for this Law and its responsibility for the application of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41706	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41707	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mrs. Lalic said the right to repay the debt did not amount to 600 thousand pensioners. That's the wrong quote I'm correcting. The right to return has not been acquired, 239 thousand and 91 pensioners have been acquired. It's those who receive the lowest pensions of up to 1,000, 1500 kuna or those who have died. In one word, a great injustice has been done to people means to them, to that army of 239 thousand pensioners, and not to speak of farmers. Here I fully support Mrs. Lalić's statement which was a little bit and cynical when she said that we had denied these people and left them without that death help.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41708	Second correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41709	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote. An honorary colleague said there was no guarantee of the execution of this law. On the contrary, there is a guarantee because the act proposed by the Government will hopefully be passed by the Croatian Parliament. And the decision of the Croatian Parliament is a guarantee because it is a commitment to all the following governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41710	Third correction, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41711	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting actually this pathetic way of putting this problem away. True, it is true that this compensation towards our pensioners is happening at the moment when the Croatian state wants to settle it right there is the size and I think a major shift of the Croatian government right now. [[Invasion: No, quote, quote.]] So there's no room for pathetics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41712	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41713	Thank you, Mr. President, so it's absolutely incorrect that the government has no responsibility. It is also just the adoption of this Act and the bill of law that proves the responsibility you did not have, and the amount of your indignation is the best indication that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41714	Dear Representative Damir Cain, IDS Representatives' Club here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41715	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister. There is no dilemma in the Constitutional Court's decision to respect and, of course, should not be debated. Croatia is a legal state and debt to pensioners should be paid back. Colloquial debt, otherwise compensation. It is clear here that only two questions are whether this model that is offered is good and other where Croatia can raise money. The return of the debt, gentlemen, is not an imaginary European football championship that we discussed 7 or 8 days ago. The money needs to be moved, and I need it now. I continue to argue is the best model for Croatian pensioners but also aware of those who have cut off pensioners' debt returns, i.e. bond compensation, and all of it, means entirely, I place an emphasis on it in 7 to 8 years as the IDS offered back there in 2004. Bonds are also money, it's cash. We suggested that compared to last year's budget growth of 1/10, we target that increase on debt returns, so I could set aside around 20 billion kuna from the budget by 2012. If it were to agree to this kind of return, without a greater effort, the states could, in full, stress the full debt to be paid back somewhere in 2010, in the 11th year. So in about seven years, in six years without a two-year start. This best-case model the most fair model has been rejected and today we are discussing this proposal by the government. It is to be welcomed that the government has agreed and acknowledged the debt exists. Mr. Vidovic said the debt was recovered, overpaid, however, there are several problems. First, the government of Mr. Matesha introduced a 100 kuna clause plus 6% small pension law, the government of Mr. Racan continued with this payoff we see the spell and the government of Mr. Sanader. Apparently Mr. Sanader doesn't joke when he says we'll be back in two years, but about that later. As the coalition government may have hurried to build the Zagreb-Split road, even because of what was going on in 71, this one wants to get rid of the 1993 mortgage, and surely my God is considering next elections. Is that now part of the system take it or leave it as I call it, HSU said on one press that it's a casino economy, but 99% of it I'm sure the pensioner will decide on everything in two years, because let's not forget that the circus of 20,000 pensioners is dying annually, so that's what natural legality gives the government a bonus, to be cynical, of some 100,000 pensions so far. The right to return has 423 thousand and 34 pensioners. All those who are then retired are not to be denied, but to be fair, the right to injustice has been done to these very new pensioners, as Mr Vidovic spoke of, to them 300 thousand, whose pension is generally less than the old pensioners, and all because of a significantly longer accounting period, i.e. a full working life compared to those of the 10 most favourable years. What to say at last about the real poor woman who was spoken of by Mrs. Lalić, who is retired up to 1500 kuna and who will get nothing because they are paid to God, and these are 239 thousand and 91. For the pensioners in my court, it would be much better if not only for the government – HSU. Why? In view of the continued trade, if this Law is followed by a return to the former, we are paying for a more precise withdrawal from the 6-month coordination, i.e. if it goes to the so-called. In 10 years, the government will save itself 25 billion kuna, or a whole annual budget for the millions and 50,000 pensioners, which will say that pensioners will repay their debt. And to save the state in 10 years 2 amounts of that I repeat debt or even 4 amounts per these 6.9 billion kuna. If we keep in mind that it's really going to return 6.9 billion kuna to the state in 10 years 20 billion kuna bonuses and that's actually the point, it's coming back to save. The truth of this kind of reckoning, the more favourable one was introduced by Sanader's government and it has so far favored the pensioners, but this alchemy can become transparent, true if we simulate so-called. Harmonisation of pensions for the first half of 2005, so-called The Swiss formula is more favourable than the existing formula. For example, according to the current pension formula of 1826 kuna and 79 lipa, the increase would be 29.22 kuna, the increase in wages and the increase in the cost of living taxes would be 30 kunas 14 June and one kuna. I'll talk about it later, but let me talk about it. So, Mr. President-in-Office, the most important problem is a significant almost embarrassing slowdown in the wage growth that is under way, it says that Croatia is in a crisis or a real crisis, it says that Croatia is in trouble and is really asking the question of how to raise those 6.9 billion kuna in 2 years. After us is the budget rebalance, the state has achieved significantly less income than taxes, what hurts is that they remain hospitals without 226 million kuna for investments. The excise income plan has been reduced by 677 million kuna, mostly due to the 0,0 promiscuity provision, which means whether we gentlemen are going to conduct a debate on the economic reality because it's just this new budget money. That means discussing how to make money, we can spend it in the most different ways but how to make money. That's the gentlemen's point. Industrial production is 78% of the 90th. In industry today, it's only 39% as much as it's worked in 90. In 15 years from 90th to the end of this year, we will accumulate an external trade deficit of 60 billion kunas, etc. It was an absolute war and counting numbers can be done like this, but what we do. I agree they're not the only ones to blame the government, but how to make money, how to create those seven billion kunas in two years. Whom to take. There's no one left. There's nothing we can do to the military or the police, so there's nothing to be taken from them. We can stop the development of public investment by extracting profits but it's an unspective policy. Finally, for the first 6 months, the growth of gross social product was a humiliating 1.8%. We can further decentralize the country, but we can no longer burden the economy. We can't pay back our pensions, so where to take the money and it's 7 billion kuna or 3.5 billion kuna a year. So through privatisation, through privatisation, I put an emphasis on it. But you sell that Mr Hebrang does not claim that after the sale of banks Croatia invests more in the European Union than the European Union in Croatia, which is absolutely correct and that is the point, which is what we sell, so we sell our family silver for debt repayment. Is that a good policy to think about? Consider also the IDS debt recovery proposal through bonds through one tenth of the budget growth compared to the previous year. Seven billion kuna would be paid with a year-and-a-half delay, but in another four years, the entire 100% debt. That's the point. What do we sell? That's what gentlemen should say. 15% of INA. We were proud of INA, and now it's over. It's said to be worth 2.5 billion kuna. Realistically, I'm also claiming 5 billion kuna. We sell Croatia insurance for some I don't know 200m euros, a billion and a half kuna, the ACI marina, that's about 100m euros, 700m kuna, and the HT 25% will bring us at least 700m euros. So we get to that 10 to 12 billion kuna. If we keep in mind that in this annual privatisation budget we need to direct 4 billion kunas into the next budget in 2006, then we also have to be able to collect at least three, maybe 4 billion kunas for this debt return to pensioners plus a billion and a half kuna which we will save by moving from this account of salaries to so on. Swiss formula. But what are we going to leave to the future government for privatisation? Croatian forests, HEP, highways etc., but whoever bites into it will break their teeth. We can sell the Post Office, the Croatian Bank, but that's crazy. In the last ten years, by converting you through privatisation, which through the sale of banks we have colonized ourselves. Or in exchange for political sovereignty, we deprive ourselves of financial sovereignty. I say there is no real political sovereignty without economics. I am aware of either the capital will come to Croatia or our citizens will go after that capital. I don't think privatisation is always bad. After we sold the banks, they at least deprived us of the bank's collapse but the capital is coming out of Croatia, it's a tragedy right now. The same day will be tomorrow with Croatia's insurance, INA, etc. So, the rescheduled companies don't sell. So this law is about money. There's no dilemma. We have to pay back the debt, but how do we find the money to pay back the debt? That's the point, this is what the vice president of the government is talking about today, Mr. Polancec, and no one's talking about it. From the Croatian economy, we can't take the money to pay back the debt. It is impossible to repay debt from borrowing because we owe as old Greece. So it's only possible to return to privatisation. So, like I said before, this is a consensus and for privatisation, I just don't know what or what. But I argue it is a consensus for the sale of INA, HT, ACI, Croatia's insurance and certainly a dozen other major public state-owned companies. However, the intention to repay the debt should be supported and if the pensioners agree to part with them, they should be left to their conscience but there will be no one to vote against this bill. Slowing growth pays to only 1.6% for the first six months, slowing GDP growth to 1.8% for the first six months calls for an alarm. This is a sign that Croatia is in trouble and that the burden is relocated to the pensioners. 1993. 1994, 1995, we switched to so-called Old pensioners to whom today rightly, fairly, we repay the debt and now switch to so-called. I don't know any new pensioners in the last three, four, five years. But this law should be supported even though I hold that the only fair repayment debt was under IDS's bond return law. The burden on the retirement population was also transferred when we passed the Health Insurance Act a few days ago through the form of participation where everyone will de facto single up to 30 kuna. There, with these words, the IDS Club has advocated since it was in this House to correct this historic injustice. On several occasions in the procedure we referred our laws, did not receive support from either the government or parliament, and we really want happiness in the implementation of this law and it is clear that 99% of the pensioners will take the opportunity to have their debt "collvial debt" compensation carried out over a period of 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41716	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41717	I'm correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that the best method of compensation is through the bonds. The bond is billable and immediately market a document that would allow for a new robbery of the pensioners or all that heavy bagging. So, even if the government could issue bonds, it wouldn't be a good thing or I wouldn't be a part of the deal. The only thing better would be to pay a person off the state budget, but we said it wasn't possible. Mr. President, please warn fellow Caine of unfounded qualifications that HSU is trading with the government because if I were being rude, I could also say that IDS is doing around Brijuni Riviera, Hospital, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41718	And a second correction by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41719	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting the next guilty allegations of fellow MPs. The government is considering this decision next election. That's not true. The government is considering past elections because Prime Minister Sanader's government has promised to repay this debt before the elections and thus continues to meet its guarantees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41720	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41721	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable Representatives of the Croatian Assembly! I would like to address the Croatian Parliament at the moment when we are solving one of the most difficult and sensitive problems of our society and our social and political heritage. There is no doubt that the debt of our pensioners from the human fates, from the point of view of social relations, from a moral and political point of view and about material and financial not to speak, has been one of the most difficult burdens for all the governments so far since 1993. There is also no doubt that it was also a burden for overall relations in Croatian society. Finally, it was a matter of legality and rule of law as much as moral law and respect for the 1998 Constitutional Court's decision. I mention in 1993 and 1998 that I would remind myself that these 12 years, 12 years during which political promises were mostly mixed with impotence and neglect even led to the state of apathy, neglect, and infidelity. One of Croatia's most difficult human and social problems has been constantly pushed aside, left with the following furniture. Not only did few have the courage and strength to bite into this bitter apple of Croatian transition, but the faith began to be lost by the pensioners themselves. The fair and fair pensions that the state had to repay with the power of moral obligation towards the people who built and created the values and good of this country and the power of the court's legal decision have already been slightly considered lost. The truth is, the pension system and debt to pensioners is one of the most difficult problems in many other countries even more developed than Croatia. Many countries are suffocating in the pension system crisis. Many governments in the world have fallen under the issue especially in countries that, like Croatia, have changed the social policy system. For many today, an enigma that is dangerously burdening the ability to implement reforms remains a ballast that blocks economic development. In the past 12 years, Croatian governments have tried to face this issue, but it seems that the patience of our pensioners has always been greater than the determination and ability of politicians. Long pensioners and we were more often talked about before the elections than in serious discussions with serious intentions, or some minimum solutions and small substitutes were sought. The truths for this whole period have been well aware of our pensioners, Croatia and the Croatian economy have been exposed to huge difficulties. I said the question of pensions chokes and more developed countries than we do. Transition and the cost of a defensive Homeland War. This enormous pressure on the budget that lasted for almost a decade should the defence and reconstruction be taken into account and further burdened and made it difficult to solve this problem. With gratitude and full honesty, I must say that our pensioners were able to recognize the importance of the historic task and that I believe their patience in terms of debt settlement was in many ways an expression of their contribution to the homeland. In that sense, we are all double debtors to our pensioners. But ladies and gentlemen, MPs, patriotism doesn't give anyone the right to avoid laws and legal obligations, at least to the state. I talked about it on other occasions and on other occasions. In this case, it meant the government's obligation to respect the 98 Constitutional Court's decision to repay the pensioners' debt and it had to be done. Me and this government keep our promises. Some of you will remember that in the election campaign we were still talking about this issue. The electoral programme made it clear that care for citizens is the most important task of the state and nothing can be beyond that. At the election meetings, I talked about how pensioners are on the verge of socially acceptable lives and how pensions are received with insult and shame, but I also talked about the government's obligation to ensure the well-deserved dignity of the pensioners. Likely, many thought it was the passing wind again and another election promise. When I returned to the pensioners in terms of strengthening their material position, I signed up for an election guarantee card in some of them, there were even more doubts. Many wondered if it was just a new political marketing skill or a real intention. I said, I keep my promises. Serious policy cannot be built on weak foundations in the long term. You can run away from problems for a while, but you can't get away from them. And precisely because of the full awareness that the issue of debt recovery to pensioners and the overall resolution of the social status of third-year people is a question of the character of our society, the issue of our development, the issue of justice and social cohesion, and that is why HDZ decided to step forward to meet the pensioners and their political representatives. In the coalition partnership between the Government and the Croatian Party of Retired through a common dialogue aware of the real economic opportunities in the country, but also together determined to relieve the state of debt to make it easier to step into a new stage of development we have found a solution and here I want to thank both the coalition partners and others who support the parliamentary majority, but also the opposition I have seen from the debate has understanding and support the resolution of this debt. I am convinced that it is realistic, namely the solution and that it will be accepted not only by pensioners but also by the general public. Because finding a solution to such a difficult problem means showing that there is responsibility, willingness and confidence in this country, and that is a gain greater than any debt. It shows that we know, we can and we want Croatia today is again the most needed. That is why resolving this issue has a much broader meaning. It shows that we are ready to address the difficult and burdensome issues remaining from the past system either from the recent past. It is of course clear that without resolving past relations, we cannot complete the necessary reforms, build a new market and democratic system and give the country a new flight. And we need a new swing and a new flight. Let us ask ourselves together, regardless of the party colors, whether without a new swing to stay in the retirement area, we can leave the current situation where the number of people who are actually creating new incomes is still a little higher than the number of pensioners. It is a strategic issue of development, it is a question of the economic future from which the overall picture of Croatia comes tomorrow, and such issues and examples are very much. I was talking yesterday about a knowledge-based economy, an economy of ideas, initiatives and innovations. The economy that prevails today in the world, in a world that is so rapidly changing that today's backdrop already brings a loss of perspective tomorrow. There's always someone who, based on new technologies, new ideas and new thinking of the economic rules and the competition, will be faster, more ready to jump in where we're not, if we're not there. We don't want to or shouldn't be behind. We must constantly have a picture of Croatia as we wish to see and what we want to see in five, ten, twenty years. We have human and natural potentials and it's time to raise them to a new, higher level. We have summed up one of the most difficult issues for third-aged citizens, our mothers and fathers, our grandparents, and for future generations. This is what the government will continue to worry about, bearing in mind the country's strategic interests and having in front of it that picture of Croatia in the future as we all want. Ladies and gentlemen, after today's Croatian Parliament, and I urge you to adopt this bill, do so, we have all resolved together a great trauma of Croatian society and we can be proud of it. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41722	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41723	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister has said that we have settled the issue of retirement payments by this law. We haven't worked it out. They'll only get rid of it when it's worth it, it's a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41724	We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41725	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Prime Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. I, too, personally, as our colleague Vidovic said on behalf of the club, support this bill that should be considered jointly with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 July 2004. And certainly it's true where there's a will to spend something there then there's a way. She would also confirm what someone said saying on behalf of the club that this is a big step. Of course, let us remember the first HDZ government to deny the debt of the former Prime Minister who has also promised to implement this decision and this law that I believe we will vote on. However, what raises little suspicions and suspicions is one incomprehensibility of a little of this law especially in that section that speaks in its Chapter 2 on the fund management company and the boards of directors. And otherwise, even when a little fund is mentioned, that's one word that is with our people, with our citizens causing some doubt, some infidelity. Because of the negative experience he has with the funds, here we have little happiness in the light of the Law that I quoted last year, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, which, in its Article 6, provides that within a year, this deadline should now expire, the Fund should be established and operational. So, we need to hurry up here. What also suffers criticism and what may be correct, which is because we heard today a colleague of Hebrang speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club who thanks all the pensioners and those who will not receive compensation, who died before 5 August last year. However, it remains unclear why this Law came into force and was published in the National Journal on July 28th, so why not give opportunity to those who did not die during that period of 7, 8 days. So it was an administrative decision that left those dead and their heirs only here a verbal thank you from which they do not have much benefit. However, one question remains also the legal question that can be asked, which we have also pointed to in the adoption of this Law on the implementation of the decision. The calculation of the pension, the compensation is not provided for in the form of an administrative act and remains unclear as to how the dissatisfaction of either the pensioners or his successors will react. Of course, no matter what these laws say, they cannot be denied a court ruling. But in any case, there may also be considerable legal difficulties. So, as far as the act itself was concerned, no matter how it was, as the letter of the Law on the application of the Constitutional Court's decision said, nothing crosses the Fund or crosses the Government to allow that amount of debt to be in the form of an administrative act in order to prevent all those misunderstandings. However, what is causing, somehow, can cause a great deal of approval is the provision of Article 11 which says that the company, therefore managed by the fund, has only the statute and only determines the wages, I think it is not acceptable, that it is not good, and the wages can be huge, therefore, it should be taken into account that there are restrictions on how much salary there can be, or annual compensation in the society itself. Because ultimately, this annual fee is spent, or financed from the state budget itself. It remains unclear the law is not the bill's proposal, so you should consider it a little bit to be precise. What about those who have not responded within a certain time limit in the way they want to be compensated. These heirs yes, to them the precise law said that in that case the first proposal was valid. I therefore think that in this sense it should be specified that in no case will they decide within 30 days that there is no breach. The same would not be good, this provision of Article 42 if it remained as it is. In fact, the beneficiaries of pensions already pending court proceedings in order to exercise the right to compensation that they can become members of the fund only if they give up the claim, and if they give up the claim on that basis, means that they will never again, even if they are unhappy or fail to pay off, they would not be able to start it. Therefore, I do not think there is any obstacle to leaving out the provision of Article 42. So, I support this bill of law and more than my thoughts of the very interpretation of this law is my desire to get paid really and come because my neighbor really does have Luciana asking me, she heard about it, it's what people expect, they support but she told me to ask the prime minister what day and on which counter she can come for this payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41726	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41727	Dear Mr. President, Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. This is where I came up with this replica where the dead pensioners who, like this, were mentioned were left with little comfort from what we're saying. I must tell you that in my immediate vicinity a gentleman recently died a pensioner who in writing left his will and this. That if it were to happen that those pensions that have been since 93 were to get to him and his heirs, he would simply not enter his house. Why? For the simple reason he considered it his share in the creation of the Croatian state in the moment he helped his people when they needed it. That way, as he writes it, it would simply take away the possibility that he was participating in it. So that's something I wanted to confront this other one. So we have both these and those. The fact is what I'm going to repeat is that this morning there were other groups and university professors and professional and scientific and teaching teachers who had small salaries and weights and farmers and everyone. They were all participating, some of them were going, so they didn't come back. But I think the measure of things is the moment that at this point the Croatian government simply will, can and is determined to take this step to return to our pensioners by constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court. I think it's a big moment and it's a thing that can't cloud any detail no matter how pathetic and from which side of this House it came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41728	Thank you. Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41729	I was also told by my neighbor who died a few years ago. I'm not sure I'm going to get paid, but try to keep my kids, my two sons, out of retirement, and I, or he was getting a small pension, and my two sons were out of a job after they got back from the war, so he asked me to make sure that that's the debt that he won't get, at least his heirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41730	Dear representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41731	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It's already in the name of the club here, of course I support it, which is that we will support by voting this law. We feel as we did in years when it was disputed that there was a debt to the pensioners, we believe that the debt to the pensioners should be paid back. The good part of this law is, then, that this topic is finally closing. I think this is the fourth government to deal with the problem of paying back pensioners, and so it's a good thing that this topic is finally being removed from the agenda. But I must say, and here is Mr. Sanader who gave his speech and just left the assembly... This is where he said, and you're here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Who had just spoken here about paying back the pensioners but also said that all the former governments were looking for small benefits to pay back the pensioners. With a lot of what was said absolutely precisely in Mr. Sanader's speech, I think this was something that did not correspond to the actual state and something that was not correct in relation to all those who had previously tried to resolve the problem of paying back the pensioners because the previous government passed the Law on the repayment of debt and respect and implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision and returned two and a half billion kuna each year to the pensioners. The problem is that Mr Sanader said that it was not only a problem to repay the debt but also, in some ways, to raise the standards of our pensioners, it should also be true to say in 1999 that the average pension in Croatia was 1.172.00 kuna or 37% of the average salary in Croatia, and that in 2003, after all these interventions from the Budget, it was 1725 kuna and it rose to 42% of the average salary. In the last year and a half, the government of Prime Minister Sanader has unfortunately dropped pensions and we are now at 41% of the average salary. So you, unfortunately, have not stopped the growth of pensions but have even come to a decline, not to say that you were unable to keep this, this growth that the former coalition government had. I only said this because I think it was completely incorrect and incorrect to say that there were little substitutes required to help the pensioners because it's absolutely incorrect. So in addition to all that this law is good for pensioners, which brings down one topic that has been going through four governments for years, it should also be said that there are many unknowns in this Law. In this Law, it is completely incomprehensible how the amount of debt to pensioners has been calculated in a way that is calculated interest, and the only thing left for us to believe is that the amount of the agreement between the Government and the Croatian party of pensioners or pensioners and, if so, we will support it and therefore we do not consider it anything controversial. In the return of debt according to this here we have seen about 423 thousand pensioners involved and what is a kind of advantage it is to go to an individual debt refund for pensioners. However, I fear that this particular approach will lead to a number of problems. There's a lot of pensioners who now think they're gonna get a debt back. There will be a lot of those who, when they get to their addresses, are small amounts of debt or do not get a solution at all that the state is obliged to pay them back, they will be quite disappointed. There will also be those who will be sure to reach out to some kind of lawsuit because they will consider them suspended. I am therefore afraid that individual calculation will lead to a number of problems. So it's only when he touches every pensioner's name. Unfortunately, there are no indications in this Law how far so far it has been returned. There are no other indicators either. I have to admit that in the media it has been speculated with figures that somewhere around 50% of the pensioners have already decided that they will demand a one-time payment and will not ask for the full amount of the debt. Who, in what way, questioned the pensioners? How did it come to be that more than half or half of the pensioners would agree not to pay the entire debt but only half the debt? I'm afraid there's too much calculations and too little facts in this whole story. There is also no indication that from this point on, it has somehow turned out to be 260 thousand pensioners who will not be covered by debt returns, and in the end it should be said that there remains one big problem and I think the problem is further deepening, and that is the difference between old and new pensions. Those who retired until 1998 and those who left later. Unfortunately, the differences are too big. The injustices are too great. People with the same salary, with the same years of work, with the same conditions of work, have a significantly lower pension, so just because they went after 1998 into retirement and I'm afraid that this injustice and that gap between several categories of pensioners will continue to deepen. In the end, it should be said that the Government has come out here with some financial means, so it is not going to sell certain shares in enterprises, but it should also be said that after this law we will discuss here and return to old retirement forms, and the Government here has made it very clear that, according to this Law, this formula remains, so for the last year and a half days, around 25 billion kuna should be paid for pensions by 2014. So it is a very clear account of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The pensioners will now be given a portion of the funds in the short term. In some ways, these funds will be compensated partly for returning to an old Swiss formula that is certainly more unfavourable to pensioners than it has been for the last year and a half. However, I am the problem of growing pensions or lagging behind pensions that will clearly fall after the adoption of this Law remains, so we have solved one problem, and that is something that has happened in the past. Reimbursement to the pensioners. But unfortunately, how the pensioners will live in the future and what their pensions will be we haven't solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41732	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41733	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When a society solves any of its problems by agreement of stakeholders, especially if the problem is resolved by consensus of all, such a solution should be strongly welcomed and supported as an expression of a civilized, democratic way of solving the problem. It's a classic case with this law. We must remind ourselves, however, that there was a problem. When did the debt come? In the period between 1993 and 1998 when pensions are not harmonised according to the then applicable Law. They weren't coordinated because he needed money in the budget between the two of them and for the defense of the country. Maybe that money could be taken somewhere else now. It was possible to take the same stale tycoons, which war profiteers, transducers of all kinds and fels. It's not. They were left alone. He took his pensioners because they were the easiest prey. It is impossible to fully correct any injustice. It is impossible to fully make up for any damage, and here I fully agree with Dr. Hebrang. How to restore someone's life lost in the war, how to compensate someone for lastingly impaired health, for a lost leg, for a lost hand. I can also agree with Dr Turic, I can accept his argument that there are pensioners who tell us this return is not necessary because this money is financed by the country's defence and we are proud to have participated in these pensions. I, in that sense, expect Dr. Turkey should propose an amendment to this law to allow pensioners who wish to give up their pension for these reasons to do so. A friend of Dr. A tourist he mentioned and everyone like him. Once the debt came to him, he refused first to admit it, and then the Constitutional Court decided. And there was the implementation of that decision, and not entirely, not perhaps systematically but the debt was somewhat recovered, and the decisions of the Matesha Government, and the decisions of Racan's government, first through that formula 6% plus 100 kuna, and then the law on increasing pensions to remove differences and something not even a little 17 billion kuna was returned. And it's good and correct of this government to admit it. It is good and correct from retired associations and from the Croatian party of pensioners to admit it as a fact. It could continue that way and the debt would slowly be returned. He's been chosen twice, okay? In doing so, it should be borne in mind that there is no ideal path, there is no such path, each is somewhat perverse, there are some obstacles on each. Mana this time may be his length, this isn't a short trip, this isn't a shortcut this will take long. The last wars for those who opt for that formula of returning the full amount, but in an 8-year period, with two years of beginning, will be won in the last quarter of 2012. It won't be for the term of office of this government, it won't be for the term of office of the government that comes behind this government, it will be for the mandate behind this government. At the Third Government. In that sense, it may need to be correct to say, this government has in agreement with the pension societies found a way to solve this problem but it will not solve it entirely, it will also be dealt with by the governments that are coming. When old injustices are corrected, there is always a danger of creating others, it is almost legal, and thus this Law has hidden some of its injustices. Let's say when it comes to heirs to fund members. They're two species. Because pensioners who were retired in the period from 93 to 98 were all damaged, all who were then retired, were taken part of the pension. Now, some of them have lived until August 5, 2004, and their successors will receive a debt refund for their parents. Some, however, died on August 4th 2004, just the day before the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision and their successors will not be able to recover the debt. Neither will those who died, heirs of those who died in 2003, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, and all of them were cut off. Therefore, the heir has two types and the Law does not treat them equally and that is one of the principles of this Law. This law was to be discussed by Mr. President of the Parliament for the quality of the debate, perhaps in a united debate with this next Pension Insurance Act, simply because it could be more logical to conclude the consequences of one and the consequences of another. Because then we would see that the truth is what counterpart Vidovic said on behalf of the Club on the difference between old and new pensioners, that we are now rightly, for a reason we are making sure that we damage old pensioners, but we are not showing enough care for those who retired after 98. Then it would prove to be true what Mr. Cain said that by changing the formula, for new pensioners, for those who are now receiving a pension, that by changing the formula of the state, 25 billion kuna will be saved by 2014, and that is all the money to which this debt will be paid back and the State will remain 8 billion kuna, so the pensioners will repay their debt to themselves. For those of you who didn't understand what I said, I'll try to simplify it. By changing the formula of the state, it will save up to 2014. 25 billion kuna, think through this law returns 17 billion kuna, difference is 8. I found no answer to the question of what happens to the Fund after the last quarter of 2012. Who are members of the Fund, all debt will be returned to the Fund will exist, writes the Fund remains, but who are members of the Fund then. The pensioners obviously don't because their debt is paid back, who are members of the Fund? Here are some doubts, however, which, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do not diminish my support for this legal solution as an expression of an agreement between pensioners' associations, a government that I hope will be given consensual support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41734	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. What? Excuse me. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41735	I appeal to Article 213 of our Rules of Procedure, I think it is high time that you, as president of this House, prevent those who are sufficiently uncivilized to mock other people's names. Yes, they caricate names, and they do it all the time. It's high time, Mr. President, because you need to protect the integrity of each and every one of us, but your dignity as president, as you allow it to question yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41736	I give you a warning, I tolerate no distortion of any names, you abuse the Rules of Procedure and report for a violation of the Rules of Procedure that no one has, from fault, or from anyone. Having mutual issues outside the debate is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and do not come to me in this way. Replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41737	I would not agree that it could continue with the way in which the debt has been settled, so 100 kuna and 6%, and by calculating the increase in pensions of 05 to 20% as the amount that contributes to the repayment of the debt. In order to ensure that the compensation is carried out at all and that it is in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, it must first be recognised, and then the damage is calculated individually, thereby carrying out the practical final calculation of that debt. I remind my fellow Stazic that so far there were legal decisions that claimed that the debt had been settled by the coalition government. I remind you that there is also a decision of this House of Highs that the debt is settled without individual compensations. It was therefore necessary to take this step and cut off one course of action so that the debt, that is, the compensation that the right of the collective methods is dealt with personally. Secondly, this debate cannot be brought together with the debate on the law, amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, because these are completely two separate topics. This problem corrects the lack of functioning of the rule of law and the compensation of those who are deprived of part of the right during a certain period of time while the problem of harmonising pensions is something else, it is the ongoing harmonisation of pensions paid under the law, so no two substances can be united. I also find it strange for my colleague Stazic to speak so about indexation and in some ways condemns the change of formula because as far as I know, SDP supports the changes in formula, and on several occasions I heard in the newspaper that SDP advocates the Swiss formula. We are practically the only ones left in HSU who are saying that we should remain at the level of sharing the same fate of those who pay pension contributions and those who use it benefit, so pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41738	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41739	About the Swiss formula. The Swiss formula was a formula applied by the previous government. I didn't think of it, and then when it was the government, I supported her as rational. I was just trying to show what savings will be, what savings will come from changing that formula, and there will be savings for the state budget. It's obvious he'll be here. You said it couldn't be united, you're absolutely right because by returning the debt it would be due to some, and by changing the formula it would take all the money. There's a difference. As for your first remark, that as far as your remarks were concerned, it couldn't continue. Look could have continued because 17 billion have already been returned and you and the government have acknowledged it through your agreement that the rest, that it should be returned another 13.5 billion which means 17 has already been returned and that it would continue to return. Maybe not so high-quality or not in that model that is now proposed, but if it has already returned then we can't argue that it wouldn't continue to return that it was continued with the same payment. And as for throwing from the bench of colleagues, this only proves that the size of the spirit does not always have to correspond to the size of the body.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41740	We're continuing the debate. It seems that we regretted one comment that is not common to this hall. Next up is her colleague, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41741	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen present, colleagues and colleagues. So here I express my distinct satisfaction that this government has found a way to deprive the pensioners and solve one question that has burdened not only the pensioners but also the entire society as a whole. We remember the judgment of the Constitutional Court of May 98 and the general opinion of one concern that such a debt is actually impossible to repay and that would lead to the question and functioning of the state and would say survival. The value of this proposed law is as high as it is in line with the representatives of the pensioners, and I would still remind here of that provision where 100 kuna plus 6% is included in this retirement base. However, we return at that time when this decision was made in 1993 when the government, with the aim of one implementation of the Stabilisation Programme, adopted a regulation laying down the maximum amount of funds to pay off pensions. Let's remind ourselves it was a time of exile and refugees, a time of restoration, preparation for the release of occupied areas and pensioners are... They were both wise and patient and persistent, and here they welcomed the matter to be resolved in the end. [[You don't understand.]] The proposed model of this establishment of the Pension Fund is what I consider the best possible solution. However, I would also like to remind the population of over a million of our citizens, that the majority of these retirement pensions are about 550 thousand, then disabled 237. Then she would also demand that about 73,000 receive a pension of 500 kuna, a further 105,000 receive a pension of 500 to 1,000 kuna and a further 290,000 receive a pension from a thousand to a thousand and 500 kuna, or that I conclude all together that somewhere around 470,000 pensioners receive a pension under a thousand and 500 kuna. The data presented suggests that it is really necessary to improve the social security of most pensioners, and I think this fund will help. The proposed law regulates the question of compensation for pensioners, the total amount of compensation we see is 11 billion and 463 million 476 with a corresponding interest of 2 billion and 300. We've seen here opinions that it's not known how long the bill is, how real the debt is, how much it's paid back. I don't think it's a good idea to put such opinions from this pay phone this way, which then raises the suspicion and regularity of the calculation, and surely in the Peace Fund that's been doing the calculation, they have answers to all these questions. I also believe that there is often fear among pensioners, and these are the messages we have sent here by some of us. That most of the pensioners will die and will not wait for compensation. Therefore, it is good and would point out that the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision means that since 12 May 98 all those who have died means after the entry into force of this law, their first heirs will have the right to inherit this share. It is also good that pensioners have the option to choose, means that they will take a discount payment for 2006 and 2007 and will soon be waiting or will decide on a meal payment that will then take some time. Already, there are also claims here that the pensioners will be uncomfortable when they welcome and receive a report as much as they actually owe them. I'd say they'd be pleasantly surprised because they believed by now that debt would never come back. Also, I think it's good and it's necessary that it's a closed investment fund and that the bags and they're very well remembered can't come up with valuable assets for small money. It is also good that the fund is managed by professionals, which should be a guarantee of its successful business. That is why I also support and welcome the adoption of the Retirement Fund Act and I expect that it will fulfill its task and damage the pensioners which it has been and is our obligation and our duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41742	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is Agent Niko Rebic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41743	Thank you. Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, associates, colleagues and colleagues! We finally got on the bench as promised in this House of the Retirement Fund Bill. So within the deadline set, the government submitted a proposal for this law to the Croatian Parliament. However, the debate and criticism on the government's account should be remembered whenever the issue of debt to pensioners was on the agenda of not wanting to, not knowing, and will never be resolved in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to owe the pensioners. It would be very good to read the stenograms to remind the public what some colleagues and colleagues spoke a few months ago. The guy's criticism prevailed that by the time this fund was established and the funds were secured to pay off the pensioners would not be the ones that were cut off. It should also now be recalled that this is one of the higher burdens that burdens the state to move more seriously into development. Clearly, today, as long as he does not get rid of himself in a fair manner in accordance with the 1998 Constitutional Court's decision, this society cannot go full forward. As in any democratic country, there are forces, political forces that will always be reminded of the debt and injustice of the state towards a particular group of its citizens, and I believe that it is good. It is important to say that this debt and this problem did not arise overnight. He's from 1993, but there's no point in repeating how he came about, why he was piling up and why he didn't get rid of himself even though there were funds and ways because we'll think of no one having the illusion that it should be returned all at once but to find some way to treat the issue properly. So let's try to figure out why this problem hasn't been solved since 1993. Of course, from 1993 to 1997, whose mandate the problem was actually not the priority of resolving the problem from 1997 to 2001 more than half of the term of office, so even after the 1998 Constitutional Court's decision, it did not even recognise the existence of the debt. Something at the end of the term was trying and everything else was trying and, among other things, the political consequences just by not solving the debt to the pensioners were most felt by the very government because the elections were being replaced by the authorities and came to power by a coalition headed by the SDP, it promised everyone everything from the return to the conversion of robbed money, the closure of thieves and tycoons who illegally became rich until the retirement of the pensioners. Therefore, it should be said that the coalition government has recognised the existence of debt. Everything else she did to execute the Constitutional Court's decision and repay debt to the pensioners was actually an illusion tactics because if you remember the formula 100 kuna plus 6%, it's a settlement this much, and so much but actually a real desire that this problem really didn't work out. I would say there was no will or knowledge to seriously address these difficult issues in its term of office. As with previous authorities, they too have been issued a political bill in the elections. And what we got on the benches of the Fund Bill today. We've actually got a final look-alike solution to this difficult problem that you believe and a large part of the pensioners thought would never be solved, that these were just empty and mere promises. But also, I think it's an opportunity and a test for this state to move forward without any weight on the past. So this is the first government that has shown that it wants, that it knows and that it can solve problems both countries and citizens. The government that passed one of these difficult exams that neither before had been passed by the Government in agreement with associations and defenders and pensioners in each serious state would have earned at least the respect and full support of all those who have reached the country's prosperity. Finally, however, it should be argued that this debt was the biggest problem and the stumbling block since wartime Croatia. If we remember the Constitutional Court's decisions, the Constitutional Court's decision was a sort of shock for many citizens, for pensioners and for those much younger because no one believed that debt could have grown to such amounts. The authorities would certainly have changed, but surely the election results would have been different if this problem had been easy and decisive. It would probably not even be a party of pensioners who, as we heard it, made a big contribution to the settlement of this debt. And why don't you say it, it's true. Therefore, the persistent and just struggle of the pensioners has yielded fruit, and it is therefore necessary to give recognition to this Government, which, under complex circumstances, has found a way to resolve this issue fairly in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. This should certainly be supported because this and this moves are the hope that there is a way out of the most difficult situations and that if we all work together this country under the leadership and these governments have a chance and a perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41744	Thanks a lot, buddy. You're correcting incorrect allegations. Representative Jurjevic is the first correction. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41745	It is not the exact quote of counterpart Rebic when he spoke of the coalition government that she did not repay the debt quickly enough, that there was no desire to repay the debt, etc. I would remind him because I was also a representative in that term in 1995/2000. that at least ten times I've been charged here by the HDZ government that the state has nothing to do with the pensioners. Your government didn't even admit it was due at the time. The big thing was that in 2000, the new government passed that debt. What she said was, you made it from HDZ and we'll start returning it. And that's when it started. And it's a good thing you admitted to doing it today, i.e. You took over 43 pensions to the pensioners, which you shouldn't have had enough of the majority to apply the law, not to take regulations to people. So today you're boasting that you're bringing her back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41746	Thank you very much, dear colleague. In the first part, you corrected an incorrect quote, later it was semi-emic. We have a correction, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41747	Well, I just wanted to warn you that article 209 was broken because actually Mr. Jurjevic, I was talking about all three governments and I myself claimed that one had created a debt, that the other government therefore did not recognise it and the coalition in which it was headed by the SDP had never had any real will or desire it merely tactfully created an illusion that it wanted to admit and did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41748	Thank you very much. Next correction from colleague Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41749	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that, for the second time, my colleague Rebic repeated, and it is truly amazing when he says that the return of the former coalition government's debt was an illusion tactics. Incredibly two-and-a-half billion kunas that the former coalition government has allocated each year on the basis of the repayment of debt to pensioners without the sale of pensions, therefore, from the state budget that you call it an illusion tactics, two-and-a-half billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41750	Thank you very much. The next correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Lalic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41751	Thank you. So I'm correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Rebic, who claims that the previous government had no will and did not want and did not know and was unable to repay the debt. We heard countless times before and today that the government first recognized what your government did not want to admit and then in 2000 we passed the Retirement Law to remove differences from 1. 1. 2001 to 31. 12. In 2003, 17 billion kuna was paid. The difference is that this Law applied to all pensioners and those who receive the minimum pension and those who have received each pension unlike this debt repayment where you exclude a specific category of pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41752	Thank you very much. My colleagues, please don't come from the bench, according to the Rules of Procedure. Next is colleague Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41753	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague vice president. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, any effort and any agreement aimed at repaying the debt to the pensioners and the rest of the debt I will support and be satisfied with. Especially when in our newspaper we can read about the final solution but I would like to add to the partial correction of the injustice done to the pensioners rather than the whole solution. 'Cause you should say it anyway. It does not cover about 239 thousand pensioners who receive a pension under a thousand kuna, and in such a situation, there are questions about what to do with them. This isn't just about paying back the debt, it's about the amount of pension that's... Furthermore, it has been recognised here that debt and interest repayments will be included, however, no exchange rate differences, etc., etc. are recognised. And so on and so forth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I didn't answer for the discussion to discuss the issue and these problems, I answered for the discussion to discuss a little on the basis of which the debt would be paid back. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's a shame, I'll use that word for us as a legislative body to get out of our workshop such a law. This law must be regulated legally, it is inapplicable. This Law, among other things, has from linguistic and grammatical errors to serious errors of constitutional legal and legal nature. First of all, I'm not going to speak at all about the relationship between this fund that we're setting up with this law from the Pension Insurance Office that hasn't been solved at all. But I'm going to take a few examples so I don't go into grammar and other things just to show what serious problems will arise. First. For example, it is said about this and the government in the article that the government is the founder. It's not true, pal. You wrote the other one in the law yourself. In Article 1 you are saying this Law establishes the Croatian Retirement... So if the Law is established, then it was founded by the Parliament and not by the Government and the Government has a partial... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] but partial management rights related to the operation of that fund, assets, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be resolved by the responsibility of the legal person and any other person who needs to be resolved further. Furthermore, the fund says that the assets are without legal personality and then in the completed provisions to reshape the fund in Article 38, you say, the fund cannot be transformed into an investment fund or into any legal person and that the fund is, that is, indefinitely and above it, liquidated. Guys, how is something going to reshape that's not a legal person? He himself cannot make that decision. So what do you need that provision for? It just shows, I'm showing deliberate legal examples that suggest that the law should be seriously, seriously completed. The third question I want to put right here is Article 4. It's not only injustice, it's anti-constitution. Here in paragraph 2 says the fund is closed to all other members except the heirs of the first succession order of the fund members. My colleagues here are in debt and debt compensation. This is the pension of pensioners who have the right to do so on the basis of a solution from the Fund, the Pension Insurance Institute, who have public authority and cannot and must not be aware of the first succession order in this respect. This has the right to any successor as well as under the Pension Insurance Act, and I must also remind you that, in parallel with this Act, there is an amendment to the law on pension insurance under which, if the pensioner no longer has any heirs and dies, the property which, i.e. claims from the title of that part of pension, would be a pension deficit... paid pension deficits that were supposed to belong to municipalities so far, and the city would now belong to the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, colleagues, as a state, did we really get to that... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's not discuss it at all, it's going to be a relatively small amount of money, but I want to tell you that it's totally unconstitutional, and it's not going to be real, and it needs to be done before this law comes into force. The fourth thing I'd like to warn you about. An example works. Article 21 states that the assets of the fund can be harmonised, etc., if the following principles, security, diversity of investments, maintenance of adequate liquidity and profitability are accepted. And then the following Article 25 says the total value of all shares of the fund will always be equal to the total net asset value and in paragraph three asset value of the fund and the value of the share will be determined in accordance with the principles of the valuations applicable to the assets and liabilities of the fund. Now that's the principle of security,... Forgive fellow Members are not principles, these are not principles, some of them are sociological categories, and some are economic categories that should be respected but are not principles, and even less are the principles referred to in paragraph 2 which say: in particular they contain a type of property, so forgive this list, the type is a list rather than a principle, and then you have ways to comply with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this article and it is not yet a principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the decision-making procedures and so on and so on. The fifth example. When you say that the depositary bank can, with the previous consent of the commission, be referring to the Securities Commission, entrust some of its business to another legal entity which does not deny its responsibility. Article 3 The question arises and who chooses the Depositary Bank? Guys. Who works with her. And he's making a deal with her. So how it can society, with the agreement of the commission, determine it. Well, he can't. Obviously, he can't and that part needs to be worked out. I have already mentioned Article 37, 38 and so on, and Article 40 where it is said that the exceptional number of pensioners who have acquired the right to membership in the Fund referred to in Article 18 can only be changed, namely here we are members of the Pension Fund can be those pensioners who have a claim. And I'm asking you because he's going to operate on the principles of investment funds, of course, through society, why the assets of the fund couldn't increase with non-retired pensioners, have no claim. Of course, if they're going to transfer some of their pensions to that part. By what? By what? Well, I know, but then you have an article in 42 that is completely unconstitutional, which is how you blackmail pensioners. Article 1 states: "Retirement beneficiaries referred to in Article 2. The law on the implementation of decisions that have been initiated by the court in order to exercise the right to compensation" and not to quote further, I will conclude the final sentence: "By the provision of this Act if they give up the claim of withdrawing the service". Now for the first time, the lawsuits, for the first time, something has happened in legal practice in Croatia that is even allowed. That the solution to the calculation of the claim by the Pension Insurance Fund will be the basis for entry, and possibly by a court ruling which would determine that it is no longer possible because you say if you do not give up on it cannot be a member of the Fund. So for God's sake, where are we going? The last thing I want to say in article 43 is totally unconstitutional. It says, "This law takes effect on the day of its publication in the National Journal." In the Constitution, however, such a possibility is possible. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution states, paragraph 3: "The law shall enter into force at the earliest of eight days from the day of its publication unless, for particularly justified reasons, the law has been laid down differently." This Law does not specify that it enters into force on the day of its publication. Why don't you make an argument on the day of the announcement? Why an emergency procedure? You, among other things, are telling your colleagues that another law is being implemented. Well, all right, colleagues, but this in my court would be the most honest thing to do is to turn this bill into a first reading debate to prepare the final bill by autumn. We all support the agreement taken by the ruling party or by the majority of rulings together with the pensioners because ultimately they bear the political risk of that, the implementation of that decision and that law and the electoral body in the next election will discuss it and invite those pensioners of 239 thousand who are damaged by what are textile workers or who are people in the area of special state care because they could not exercise a certain right to ask them what they have received from this law? Those 300 thousand new pensioners who will have even less pensions than they have had and even greater differences compared to this one, those who are... It's all right, but it's a matter of political struggle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if there is an agreement between the pensioner, the Retirement Party and HDZ on how to resolve this, why not move more? But let's do it with a law that will suffer minimal legal criticism. Because this, I repeat, is very, very difficult, almost inconclusive legally for this law to be implemented if it is not seriously done and arranged? I have an understanding for those who worked on this. I know they were waiting for the results of political and in-house agreements that were being conducted. I know they had little time to use all the legal and technical knowledge and nomotechnical knowledge to prepare a valid law, but I've listed 7.8 examples for you, and I could at least show that this law is actually not legally prepared so that the term should ultimately be reached by the legal consciousness and the skills of this legislature. Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues continue to debate. It is next on behalf of the HSLS Club DC and LS respected colleague Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41755	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, fellow Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. [[Aggression: Five-minute debate.]] Although she could welcome the many pensioners who are certainly following this debate because they are interested in whether we will cheat them this time and only promise them, or indeed some of these agreements will happen this time, of course we have not now been deprived of all those political colors and attempts to prove that we have all fought equally and we have all tried to repay the debt, but hopefully after these discussions, we will really go to the real return of the debt to the pensioners. The law is missing. He's here in a hurry. It's all true. However, we need to look at what the ultimate goal is. And that's the establishment of the Pension Fund. It should be very precise to determine how the assets should be managed, the acquisition of the Fund's assets to the accounting system of portfolio reporting and other important issues for the functioning of the Fund. However, what is important is that this Fund is indeed engaged, that within this Fund it is indeed only those who, according to whom there is real debt, are pensioners and heirs of the first inheritance order. A certain parliamentary control through the reporting has been envisaged and it could indeed be believed that the security of users is granted that payments will be made within the deadlines and in the amounts provided for by law. We hope that's the way it's gonna be. We were talking about a moral debt, or as counterpart Kramaric said about the debt of all responsible politicians regardless of the party colors and all the luck this debate is not being held before some elections because nobody would probably believe us. It would be another election story because it's mandatory to talk before the elections about how we owe pensioners debt returns, so I hope we're really going to be taken seriously now, that these laws are really going to be a real comeback. We have to be really careful, I keep mentioning these bad experiences because after this debate, the pensioners expect a precise calculation of who gets what money? Not in any paper, and they expect that money to be earned during a certain period of time. It is clear that the completely satisfied will not be, that there will be likely and the lawsuit of those who will be partially dissatisfied, but I believe that we will all agree that it is time for this problem to finally be resolved because, as one of our colleagues said, it is impossible to fully compensate for the damage and finally turn to one of the populations that the pensioners care about, and these are young people. They care about both their sons and their daughters and their grandchildren, and often they probably also suffer criticism that too much is being debated about the long pensioners, so let's finish that part of the job. It is certain that debates will be launched and should be fully open to the citizens of Croatia even though we know that the state is a bad master, do state companies really sell out? If they sell out how they sell out? What are the control mechanisms? Because you have to understand that there really is a fact that we no longer have any of our own banks that feel very strongly about the loan, so interest feels directly on the economy and that sensitivity is completely natural. These are therefore difficult decisions, however, for the difficult decisions that we are voting on today and I think it is still necessary to give recognition to someone who has been complaining a lot for almost two years, and this is the Retired Party. It has been argued that they have not fought, that they are mostly concerned about themselves, and now the fact is that in fact, with the initiative of these, these parties and partners, this point finally puts this item on the agenda and tries to resolve for the benefit of the pensioners. But is it really a bold government move that we have a chance to hear? Is it really finally the government that has the courage to deal with this problem or the pressure of the IMF we don't know. Or we don't know yet. However, whether it was the IMF pressure or it was a bold move by the government, I believe it is not important at the moment but finally to determine how much money our pensioners have the right to receive, and what are the deadlines? That's why we support, support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41756	Thank you very much, lovely colleague Adlesic. It's time for the Honorable fellow Joseph the Judge. Five minutes. Here you go, fellow Judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41757	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for expressing full agreement today on the need to pass and adopt the Retirement Act. The damage is a legal political and civilization issue, and I don't think there have been any parliamentary representatives or clubs here who wouldn't agree. But let us not forget that the governments so far, no matter who they belonged to, have done much of the work. I have to say that a long time ago the debt to the pensioners began to be paid through 50 and 100 kuna and over 100 kuna and 6% continued by the coalition government, but it also passed the Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions where pensioners were given between 0.5 and 20% in terms of the calculation in different periods. Those were big things. But the biggest thing is when a job comes to an end. This government has had the strength to bring work to an end and has the support of all of us here and the pensioners will surely be grateful to all of us, they will appreciate our efforts and our desire, regardless of how many things are not defined in this law as necessary, but I think that in walking they will fully reconcile. What we wanted, and what was not achieved by this law, is to pay off the debt in a year. Experts are afraid, macroeconomic experts that if the pensioners received compensation in a year to push for consumption. I assure them you wouldn't, half of them would take it to the bank, which we will, because we would save for tomorrow, because they live on current pensions, and we'll talk about it later. And I have to say that 141,000 pensioners, what no one published today, are under wraps. So I can't pay the utility services and it's theirs, and over 140 grand is waiting to go, so these are the pensioners who, unfortunately, are excluded from this law and we're going to have to take care of them. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41758	Thanks a lot, buddy. The next registered representative is on behalf of the IDS club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41759	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Vice President. Well, I can only say once again that the Constitutional Court's decision should be respected and that cannot be debated at all. Croatia is a legal state. Croatia's debt to pensioners means debt to pensioners or compensation must be paid back. Two questions are being asked. Is this model offered the best model and from where Croatia will raise money that no one from the government has told us so far. The right to return has cca, not cca, but exactly 423 thousand and 34 pensioners. All those who are then retired to God are not cut off, but to be fair to themselves, the exercise of et orbi right of injustice was done to those new pensioners, 300 thousand whose pension is generally less than the old pensioners, and all because of that long accounting period, and what to say about that true poverty which is a pension of up to a thousand, a thousand and 500 kuna, and through that form of debt returns will not get anything or about those unfortunates who have died so far, these are simply 239 thousand and 91. If I want to stress this law, it will follow back to the old, more accurate giving up 6-month wage adjustments, that is, if it goes to the so-called. In 10 years, the government will save 25 billion kuna according to their calculations, which is the entire one-year budget for one million and 50,000 pensioners, which will say that pensioners will repay their debt to themselves, and save the state in 10 years, actually 3.5.4 of the amounts that it will pay them back. If we keep in mind that it really works or returns 7 billion, 6.9 billion kuna, the state gets in 10 years de facto 20 billion kuna bonuses. Third, what's certainly essential that nobody talks about in front of the government, how to make money. We can spend it in all sorts of different ways, but how to create 7 billion kunas in 2 years. Who do you take? We have no one left in the budget, no army, no police. We can stop the development of public investment by extracting profits from large public companies, but by bringing down a gross social product that is in the first six months demeaning 1.8% and the wages have increased at a rate of 1.6% means even less. So the exit was obviously found in the privatization, and that's what he has to tell us. But what I'm selling is that in five years, no one would claim that the accumulation is being transferred to Europe. That's the point. What are you selling? Let's sell family silver, so let's sell 15% Ina, Croatia insurance, there's ACI marinas, there's THT etc. And probably, on that basis, over the year, a year and a half into the state budget is going to be about 10, 12 billion kuna, of which about 8 billion kuna will go for the budget, this year 4, the second year 4, and about 3 billion kuna for pensioners plus a billion and a half, which will actually pay back the pensioners by new indexation. So we're talking about money. No one here to talk about money. Debt must return, but how to find the money to repay the debt. That's the point. From the Croatian economy we can't get that money, from borrowing we can't get that money. It means privatisation. And I'm going to go back to my first performance today, that this is also a consensus for privatisation, but we haven't been told what yet. I claim large public companies from Ina, HT, Croatia insurance, ACI etc. So we need to be aware of what we are discussing today, and certainly no one will be when we face the vote to vote against this bill, but we need to tell MPs and the public the truth about where the money will come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41760	Thank you very much, colleague. A co-worker, Ljubica Lalic, Croatia's Peasant Party, is still registered for a 5-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41761	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues and colleagues here this morning, we suddenly started a debate about our very important law, and how much I followed the debate, all the club representatives said they would support this law. However, he said that all clubs would support the law, I did not quite notice such great euphoria except in one part that he really thinks is new, as it is the fulfillment of certain promises. We said in our morning debate that we would uphold this law. But we do not consider this law righteous, and I have explained why we do not consider it righteous. We cannot consider the law that excludes certain categories of pensioners righteously. Under this law, the right to repay the debt is not the kind of pensioners who have the lowest pensions. In particular, it is explicitly stated in the basic law that the right to repay the debt does not have farmers who have made pension under the rules on individual farmers. It's totally unacceptable for us, but it's not right to be against the law because 423 thousand pensioners won't get their debt back in full, they'll get half, why half. Because at least 90% of them will decide to repay the debt in a fast-track. And now that we're talking about it, we need to come home this afternoon or tomorrow, the pensioners will ask us when we're gonna get it because it's perceived that they're going to get that debt right away. Simply not true, the first payment of the debt will be by the end of the 6th month next year. This doesn't make us any optimistic at all because last year we had an announcement that we would have this pension fund law very quickly in the procedure and that we wouldn't be bringing it in within a few hours of seeing the light of day in the Parliament procedure, we were told a long time ago and we are skeptical here and we believe we're going to fool ourselves, that this first war will only be 30. Next year's 6th. What happens to us in the meantime is not pathetic what I'm talking about, I'm just finding out what's going on, in a few minutes we're going to move on to another debate that's going to show us that our pensioners here in Slavonia are saying they're getting on the guru, and they're losing on the bridge, at a time when we're bringing a budget rebalancing where 95 million kunas of social rights and social aid to whom? Not to those who are fortunate to work and to receive wages but to those who are the poorest, who are the poorest? Those who won't get their debt back even under this law. It's not cynical at all, it's not a bit hypocritical when I say what's going to have to go from these to 1,000 kuna when I'm talking about a segment of peasants then I'm talking about up to 500 kuna pension, they're going to have to pay for the participations they've introduced here that haven't paid so far, they're going to have to pay transportation costs to doctors who aren't insignificant to them, and they're going to have to do it in order to be buried. That's what hurts me and it's not pathetic, it's true, and we have to tell these people the truth, for too long these people have been deceived, let's just remember the words of a minister from the then-Government until the year 2000 that she said at the end, so the pensioners themselves are guilty of having such small pensions. It's their own fault? No, these people need to be told the truth and they don't need to be swept away, the last government had the courage to admit that there was a debt and was paying back that debt. Now, let's be fair, you'll get it if you accept it within two years, with you not getting anything for a year, but with the fact that your pension will not be in line with the salary increase but also with the cost of your life and that this trip will again lead you to a pension drop compared to the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41762	Thank you very much, colleague. There is another registered club on behalf of SDP colleague Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41763	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the bill's proposal because it estimates that, indeed, with today's day, we can say that debt to pensioners as an ad act can be put in place, so that we can be satisfied with the long negotiations of the Croatian government and all those who have held negotiations on behalf of the pensioners. I believe that in some ways we have shown that politics can also solve injustice through legal form and I would say illegality. The biggest job at this time remains at the pension institution which must be responsible for the implementation of the Law adopted last year, the Law on the repayment of debt relating to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. It is now very important that the quality of the work of the Peace Institute those who will personally feel I would say the effects of this Law are not unsatisfactory and not disappointed. Therefore, it is not just a matter of billing, sending a document, it is also important to have a quality personal relationship with all employees in the Peace Institute and with associations and with pensioners. And certainly that pensioners' associations in this relationship with the Peace Institute can contribute to the simple citizens of Croatia, those who are essentially with this law now and who feel that people who do work at the Peace Institute can be responsible for this communication. What is also important on behalf of the SDP is that we should not be afraid of how we will repay the debt, it is said that debt can be paid back to the pensioners and it is important to send that message that someone does not think that we will not be able to repay the debt, they will be able to. But it is evident that in the coming months the SDP with the Croatian government will seriously conduct discussions on the situation in the economy, because if the situation in the economy doesn't go differently during then we will have problems, enormous problems, we will be in debt, we will return but we will be in debt. Therefore, they remain by the SDP and continue to call the Croatian Government to the economy, let us discuss the issues of the economy because what we are afraid of is that economic movements are not good and that they will cause problems in the budget and, regardless of these problems, we will pay back the debt but far easier if we take care of the economy. If we raise economic growth to those desired at least 5%, then we will really be far more responsible for the implementation of all commitments and from the budget. Because the biggest problem will be if tomorrow by fulfilling the obligation under this law, unfortunately, we damage some other users in the Croatian budget, because it is the Croatian budget that is still facing many users. And the SDP again calls on the government, economics concerns will solve problems, and then there will be fewer fears of someone staying in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41764	Thank you very much, colleague. I no longer call upon the Vice-President of the Government of Mr. Damir Polancec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41765	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. I really feel this debate of yours today as a wish to make it all clear once again that we should improve and clarify the picture of how we repay the debt so let me mention some of the most important things. No one has disputed the decision of the 1998 Constitutional Court and it is certain that there is one great responsibility for the compensation of the pensioners before all of us. The law implementing the 2004 Constitutional Court Decision defined the method of compensation. The method of compensation is through the Pension Fund, which will be a special fund, the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision defined the category of pensioners who are entitled to compensation and defined the criteria for the calculation of individual compensation. Those two things aren't the subject of this law that we're discussing today. They are defined in the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision. It's defined in that same law and the amount of interest. There's no hundred percent fair compensation. Compensation is always in some way a contract and we all know it together. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office was given the basis of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision to calculate the individual amount of compensation on the basis of categories of pensioners who have the right to do so and on the basis of criteria for each individual pensioner the amount of that compensation. And it's done. Each pensioner has his own file and can see clearly on the basis of these criteria the amount of debt to him. By this law we define assumptions for the establishment of a pension fund as, once again, I will point out to the only possible model of debt recovery for pensioners. The pension fund is a special fund with the character of investment funds. The pension fund law you have ahead of you I am deeply convinced to answer all these questions that we have heard today and which are raised as open questions. Perhaps there was not enough time for each article of the law to be adequately read and commented but these articles provide answers to all the open questions that you have asked today. It has a foothold in the Investment Funds Act, in the Pension Funds Act II. Grade. And that's where you let me mention one more thing. The author or co-author of the Pension Fund Act is Mr Ante Samodol, who is also co-author of the Investment Funds Act and the Pension Funds Act II. The degree we're proud of and now this is no good. I can't accept that. I would also like to say that this law is therefore based on the Law on Investment Funds and the Pension Funds II Act. the degree of the result of negotiations, talks, discussions with representatives of pensioners' associations and representatives of the pensioners' party. The law may have come before you yesterday but he has been defined in the talks, negotiations in the last nine months intensely exhausting but ultimately I think the representatives of pensioners' associations from the retirement party and we government representatives are very pleased and in some way proud of the result of our work and negotiations. The law provides for two possible methods of compensation for each pensioner by an accelerated method, starting with a payment starting at 1.4, at the earliest 1.4.2006 and ending by the end of 2007. And the second one that starts in the fourth quarter of 2007 and lasts for the next six years. A fundamental question that is asked whether or not the Government has given guarantees to this law that the debt will be recovered or that the compensation will be executed. Yes, it is. We simultaneously fill the portfolio of the fund throughout the period of return or compensation to securities, shares, shares and properties that are now owned by the Republic of Croatia and provide sufficient portfolios for the return or compensation of pensioners regardless of whether they decide on variant one or on variant two. So, from this place I want to order no matter what variant the pensioner chooses, he has a full guarantee that the total amount for which he decides will be paid. The cost of operating the fund is borne by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Everything is defined and believe me when you read in peace, when you have more time in this law, all the articles of this law you will see that he gave answers to all the questions you asked as open. This is what we've done with one big step. We're solving one big open question. We're doing our duty that no one ever slows down again, and I think we should all be proud of that together. Where are we going to charge the portfolio? Clearly, we won't charge it from the budget. We will fill it out of the property that is now owned by the Republic of Croatia and the bold decision is that we take on the obligation to provide enough funds for the next two years to pay all those who have decided on the method of accelerated payment, and these will be a very high percentage according to our assessment. Where we get the money and property, you will be shown in time when we have clear privatisation plans for certain systems ahead of us. But once again, I remind you that the prime minister made it clear that we are launching an accelerated privatisation of Croatian Telecom, INA, Croatia's insurance. Privatisation is not a sale, and I want to say it out loud as well. So we've put the guarantees in here in this bill. The bill is the result of nine months of talks and negotiations. This bill is acceptable to the pensioners and pensioners' associations and I call on you all to support this law and thus close the story of the pensioner's compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41766	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Correction of an incorrect quote, I'm sorry, colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41767	Says Vice President Polancec that the law has answered all the questions raised in this debate. So he didn't answer all the questions. One of the questions I asked him, for example, is who are members of the fund after the last quarter of 2014 when all pensioners are compensated. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41768	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, you can't detach from the bench, and you can't even answer the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41769	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to vote. I'm asking the MPs to stay in the hall that they are, not to go out. Please engage to determine the quorum. Please result in a quorum. 93 MPs for now, so we have a quorum. We're going to the vote. Please, focus and attention, gentlemen. We are going to vote - Final proposal of the Retirement Fund Act. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by Legislative Committee and MP Ivo Josipovic. Minister Ivan Shuker, please amend the Legislative Committee. First.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41770	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41771	It becomes an integral part of the law. The other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41772	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41773	Third.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41774	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41775	It becomes an integral part of the law as well as another component of the law. Fourth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41776	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41777	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41778	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41779	It becomes an integral part of the law. Sixth?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41780	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41781	It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41782	It's the seventh one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41783	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The amendment of the respected representative, Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41784	We accept the amendment of Mr Ivo Josipovic's representative in part. Therefore, the amendment of Representative Josipovic proposes that Articles 1, 2, 5, 6, 10, 13, 22, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, be deleted from the text one. This is possible for all articles except for Article 6 because Article 6 contains eight items, and then this number one must remain, so I suggest that we accept the amendment of Representative Josipovic but delete this number six in his amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41785	In a part that isn't accepted, we have to vote if it's really scythistic. Who's up for that amendment? Score! Score! 12 for the amendment, he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Retirement Fund Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score! I find that with 105 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Retirement Fund Act was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41786	Let's take the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 338 Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've accepted an emergency procedure when passing the law. You received the motion for an act at the session. I remind you of Article 159. The Rules of Procedure have united the first and second readings. You're putting up with the amendments until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. The proposal should be further explained. The Minister of Economy isn't in the hall. So Vera Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41787	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your honors, and for your esteemed MPs. I also listened very carefully to your discussion of the previous agenda. And let me look at some of your views and debates in this introductory presentation, for example, when it comes to the pension system as a very complex area, as a very complex issue that has very broad reach from economic policy, demographic policy, fiscal reach, etc.. I remembered in 2003 and the guidelines given by the Assembly of the European Council to Member States as they should regulate the pension system, as it should be according to these guidelines. Therefore, it is appropriate to avoid an absolute poverty limit specific to each country and to ensure stable consumption, i.e. stable purchasing power for the rest of their lives for the vast majority of the population. The peace system must be cost-acceptable, a system within the framework of financial opportunities, individuals and societies that will not lead to sustainable fiscal consequences. It is a sustainable system that is financially rational and capable of being maintained within a reasonable period of time. A stable system is capable of resisting major shocks in the economic, demographic and political sphere. It is precisely these reasons to ensure that the Croatian pension system is also at the level of these standards or these guidelines. And since the new 2004 law has indeed made a certain shift in the social existential issue of pensioners' position in changing the way pensions are adjusted towards nominal wage growth but it is also true that such a way in the long term has a weekly accelerated growth in expenditure and a gradual increase in pension expenditure in the gross domestic product, which would indeed be unsustainable. Croatia has high pension expenditure compared to industrially developed countries in Europe. According to the 2004 data, it is 12.7% of gross domestic product while, for example, the average according to OECD data for the European Union is around 10.4%. Demographic trends in the increase, leading to an increase in the proportion of older people, are also a serious point to be taken into account when being guided, when considering the possibility of a pension system. The question of generational righteousness will also be asked for sure. The fact is that the first pillar of pension insurance is a pillar of generation solidarity that actually has a solution that the active population singles out contributions not for its pensions but for current pensions so that one day when they exercise the right to retire they would be called for the right to solidarity, therefore, the active generation is singled out for that generation which is entitled to retire and then has the right to solidarity. I think that Croatia has a very high interest and I think there is no doubt there that such a system of pension security and social security is generally to preserve that part of solidarity it has in the first pillar but it requires it and to monitor it carefully, to monitor the trends in that part and to react justly to keep this system and to make it sustainable. In addition to a few exceptions, it seems to me that two countries, Germany and Slovenia, mostly European countries apply a combination of systems, a combination of the formula when it comes to harmonising pensions, is a combination of prices and wages and, in such combinations, mostly weighs the part of the price, i.e. the cost of living in relation to the part relating to the pay criterion. In this respect, the Swiss formula, therefore, in the case of such combined formulas, is a Swiss formula that goes to take half of the price growth and half of the growth is paid as a criterion for harmonising pensions, in combination systems, therefore, this Swiss formula is shown to be fiscally acceptable and socially fairer than other combinations. For the pension system, two key moments are important. This is a question of valorisation, that is, when all last earnings on retirement are valorised to current average earnings and another important element is indexation. The indexation must preserve the real value, i.e. the purchasing power for life expectancy. I think the proposed way is sure to ensure this and these two key elements are contained, of course, in the Croatian pension system. In addition to the question of harmonising with the new laws, another part of the question that we held was to be intervened normically in order to remove the ambiguities that occurred in the application, in the current application of the law, is the problem of determining the value points for determining the pension. When the process of safeguarding labour rights is determined by a court ruling, we have also proposed to these novels, practically legalised the procedure relating to the exercise of rights based on disability, physical damage or general incompetence. The assessment of the most suitable health institutions is given to authorised experts, of course relying on a high degree of their professionalism. In previous discussions, we heard part of the connection of course of this Act with the proposal for a final settlement so on the pension fund in such a way that this Law is practically in function, so it could be assumed as if it were in a function of certain manipulation compared to the proposal of the previous law. This is indeed not so, by repeating both the proposal and the other proposal, and one and the other proposal must be on the one hand in the resolution function so as to say generation debt that does not exist in a particular generation but on the other hand so that for the future it preserves the pension system, its stability that both the active generation and not only the current active generation but all future active generations can also inherit a part of solidarity through the system of generation solidarity and that their burden is not unfair and unsustainable. So I urge you to accept the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41788	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. Whether or not the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41789	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At the 36th session of the Committee held on 14 July 2005, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Prior to the start of the debate, the members of the Committee voted with one vote against to support urgent action in the adoption of this Act. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the reasons for the adoption of this Act. By adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act in early 2004 instead of the previous harmonisation of pensions exclusively according to wage growth. However, such a way of harmonising pensions leads to an accelerated growth in expenditure and an increase in the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product. In addition, unfavourable demographic movements in Croatia will increase the proportion of elderly people in the long term, and reduce the number and share of younger persons in employment will have a particularly unfavourable impact on the pension system. Therefore, it is necessary to return to an old formula that implies harmonising pensions twice a year with half the wage and cost of life growth. In a brief discussion, most Committee members agreed on the need for such a way of calculating the situation in the economy and the possibility of a budget. The opinion is that this does not necessarily mean a reduction in pensions but rather their growth at acceptable rates. The proposed formulae of harmonising pensions with half the sum of growth and wages and the cost of life will affect fiscal stability, generation justice, and is also the most socially fair, the Committee members said in a debate. After the debate, the members of the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority vote, for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41790	Thank you very much. No more boards reported. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the first is a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41791	Honored Madam Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There is another law before us which represents a hard nut because this law, along with several other details, is corrected and the Pension Insurance Act is amended in such a way as to change the calculation of pensions or to correct the calculation of pensions no longer under the current law, which means according to the average wage growth than by the 50% increase in wages, 50% according to the cost increase index. Which translates into that at least in one period, the increase in pensions will continue to be an increase, but no longer in this dynamic as before. Why is this so and why does the Croatian Democratic Community Club support such a law? Because it is an inevitable, urgent and inevitable part of the Croatian economy's recovery strategy. If this isn't an ordinary phrase, I'll try to explain it right here. Peace in all countries of the world is less isolated from funds, or from contributions, from the budget. Two fundamental problems arise. One is that the number of pensioners is growing in proportion to the increase in these budgets, funds and contributions, and another is a characteristic of the demographic development of certain countries. Gross national income growth is nowhere to reach an increase in the number of pensioners precisely because the number of pensioners from year to year is increasing than the number of persons in employment. For example, the generation that will need us working actively today is growing in retirement terms by 35 to 40 thousand new members annually. At the time we were born, the annual growth was between 50 and 60 thousand newborns. So the growing number of those who work, the growing number of people who collect, who need a pension deserved pension, is now almost equal in Croatia. It is hardly a small number of those who work and pay their salaries, pay contributions and taxes to the Peace Fund. That is why the question is how to increase these pensions when the problem is in general collecting basic money to pay them off. An increase in pensions opens up a new problem, and that is the burden of the economy. Every pension exemption is a detachment from the salaries of those who work. Any withdrawal from the salaries of those who work means an increase in the burden on those salaries. An increase in pensions is an increase in payload. Which means an increase in the labour price. If the labour price is increased, the product price is also increased. If the price of the product is increased, the competitiveness of that country and that work will fall. If competitiveness falls the entire economy and, of course, the possibility of an increase in wages and pension allocations falls. It's called a vicious circle or a gallantulus vitiosus. The share of state spending, including pensions in Croatia, is at the very European summit. And that is why Croatia's competitiveness is getting smaller and smaller, one of the reasons of course. Others are productivity and everything else. One of the great reasons is, therefore, the price of work that includes these separations. For example, in Croatia, the share of state spending is 51% a year and we will compare ourselves with the transition countries entering the European Union. So there is 51% in Croatia. In Romania 33% and in Bulgaria 37%. These are huge differences. In the projections for a few years ahead of time, of course, our government's resolutions have calculated what this index is like now to keep. This means increasing the labour price, reducing competitiveness and reducing the charge of both the state budget and the Peace Fund and preventing pension payments. So that circle must be cut off in an energetic and courageous manner. That's why all the countries of Europe and the world were in front of the dilemma that we are facing today. And our dilemma is even bigger because in Croatia, the number of pensioners has grown disproportionately towards other countries just as a result of war, destruction, job losses and, of course, part and privatisation, which also has its victims called early forced retirement. So a larger number of pensioners means even more difficult imbalances on this scale, where on the one hand the economy is on, and on the other hand, separation for social purposes in this case and for pensions. They say in the European Community that each country must prove that it is up to itself. The country is up to taking care of itself if it doesn't spend more than it's earned. So if that imbalance doesn't go beyond cost, expenditure. In Croatia, this happened for a number of reasons and part of the indexation of pensions which in the past year was far above the European average because it was based only on wage increases. That is why when we talk about other countries much richer than us or much happier than we are because they have not had war, we should say that this way of indexing so that pension adjustments every 6 months as they are now proposed, not only have we had up to a year ago but it has practically all of Europe's countries, 90 % of Europe's countries have a combination of the budget of the cost of living, i.e. the price combined with the average wage increase. Just because in most countries this ratio is different, it is not half as much as proposed here, it is even more unfavourable because in most of these countries 20% of the share of wages is taken into account and 80% of the share of the cost index increases. And since we know that wages are growing in most countries faster than costs, it means that the faster they grow, the smaller part is taken to make the index smaller precisely because of the reason I explained, which is that the economy can survive and endure that burden. There are few countries that have indexation only, so harmonising pensions of pension increases only according to the consumer prices of only four countries and only four countries have, except for us, what we have now, and that is the harmonisation of only towards wage increases and all four countries are currently under way in reform where this is being reconsidered and trying to change. So in terms of why we're here, I would point out that we are precisely to ensure the stability of economic growth that is the only guarantee and stability of the Peace Fund. One doesn't work without the other. That's why I'm closing. What we bring here today ultimately doesn't have to be a proposal against the pensioners. I think vice versa because of the indirect effects on the economy, that's exactly a proposal for pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41792	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Next is on behalf of the IDS club, colleague Damir Cain. And before my colleague Kai's information arrives, today we'll be working without a break, I hope that's why we'll end up in a decent time. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41793	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. This is extremely delicate matter, and it's hard to be a prophet tomorrow. We know what today is. But I've been talking for two months now, strangely, people have been watching me, that you're retired in some way paying back your debt. Why? Here we go first with this argument on page 6 and here I will literally quote it: "The proposed way of harmonising pensions according to wages and consumer prices will affect the growth of pension expenditure, but still at lower and economically acceptable rates than in the case of retaining a valid way of harmonising pensions only according to the growth of wages. The difference in expenditure in favour of the proposed way of harmonising pensions is even greater if it is observed for a longer period. If, instead of the proposed harmonisation of wages and consumer prices pensions, a valid way of harmonising pensions exclusively according to nominal wage growth, it is estimated that in the period 2005-2007 total, that means the period when we need to repay the debt, the total pension expenditure would be higher by around 1.6 billion kuna, while in the 10-year period 2005-2014 pension expenditure would be higher by around 25 billion kuna. Mrs. Lalić used one of the people's wisdom to "get on the bridge you're losing" but this, as such access to the Ministry of Social Care is extremely fair because he actually told us what it was about. According to our calculations I got, the pension adjustment by, I'm going to call it so-called. Sanader's formula would be 27 billion kuna or a full one-year pension for a million and 50,000 pensioners. True, the current harmonisation of pensions means the growth of wages was more favourable than that of co-ordination that was in place until 2004, but as economic opportunities deteriorate, so-called. Racan's formula again to be more favourable than this current one. Why? For the first five months, wages have increased at a rate of 1.6%, which is extremely small, as is an extremely small growth in gross social product of 1.8%. What it looks like in practice when we translate it into concrete pension incomes. According to the current formula of this present, let's say a pension of 1.826,79 kuna would grow now that there's a harmonisation of 29.22 kuna. According to the Swiss formula, that formula that was in effect until the end of 2003 means a rise in wages and a rise in cost of life means a pension of 1.826,79 kuna would grow by 30.14 kuna. So the pensioner would by the old formula on today's reckoning day, see that Mr. Sudec agrees, get one kuna more or 92 lip more, and if you followed the growth of the gross social product and the growth of the salary of that pension of 1.826,79 kuna instead of 29.22 kuna to what he would get and how much he would get now, he would get 43.84 kuna or 14.62 kuna more. The truth is what was said earlier, that indeed in Europe, in the world, there are only four countries that align their pensions with wage growth. These are the meanings of Denmark, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Germany, which because of the high expenditure on pensions and unfavourable demographic movements examine such a way of harmonising pensions. Maybe Shredder said goodbye to the authorities just for the inability to implement such a pension policy. So right now, at this point, the Swiss formula is more favourable than this compliance with wage growth. However, IDS voted during yesterday as well as the Croatian Retirement Party, although I will repeat once again that today's Swiss formula means more suited to pensioners than monitoring wage growth. In the long run, however, it might not be so, so it might be a compromise if this law were applied by, say, 31.12.2007. It is clear that they will have to raise wages and it is clear that this calculation of the Ministry of Social Welfare is correct even though we can say that the debt will be returned to pensioners from pensions themselves or privatisation, which was recognised by Mr Polancec, the Deputy Prime Minister. We have calculated that if there is sales of Ina, Croatia insurance, the ACI marina, the HT state can income between 10 and 12 billion kuna. I repeat for this money from 10 to 12 billion kuna we can get from the privatisation of 4 billion kunas that we miss in this year in the budget, as much as next year, we can set aside 2 to 3 billion kunas to pay back to pensioners if we add these billions and 600 kunas to it, kuna through indexation form, so surely the first two wars will come back without any problem and after that we can clearly go to elections. So today the Swiss formula is more favourable, not in the long run. Although in Croatia in that country, the paradox never knows what is more favourable and what will be tomorrow, but I will say once again that we are when this indexation is compared to the Croatian party of pensioners. Now, for me, it's clear that the pensioners of them 1 million and 500 thousand will take, if they were asked at this point, or would take that 1 kuna a month more, would even give up 15, 20 kuna a year, or 50 kuna, I'm talking about an average pension through indexation, and all that through a two-year debt return in two years, for example, get 5 grand, 10 grand, 15 or 20 grand as much as anyone will get, but who would give it up. That's the point. It is ready to give up those 423 thousand and 39 pensioners who are due back, but would certainly not give up those 600 thousand in which there are 300 thousand new pensioners, who are the most deprived of anyone, nothing is returned to them. And that's just plain clear. However, we may ask ourselves once again what to do with those 239 thousand who are seriously overpaid pensioners because their pension amounts to a modest 1,000, 1200, 300 kuna. But I repeat, the real victims at this hour are 300 thousand new pensioners. They have a pension of 13.14% lower than those of the old pensioners. So some of the debt will be paid back, so it's exactly 433 thousand 034, and then they'll be taken back to everyone through this change of formula. It will return to that figure of 423 thousand pensioners, and it will take meaning to all or masses of millions and 50,000 pensioners. But the real victims, as I call them, are those 239 thousand who won't get anything, because they either died or their pension is a minimum of 1200, 1300, kuna. The essence of this whole package, however, is how to raise the money to repay the debt. It should be returned, but how. Where to take the money from. We heard from the Vice-President of Mr. Polancec's government that we can't do this out of the budget, clearly not because we're not going to get to the same kind of debt again, from the new economy, we can't, we can't impose any new obligations on citizens, so a return to debt can only come through the form of privatisation. Privatisation, I agree with Mr Polancec, is not a sale, but I fear that, as from our banks, the accumulation will go the way of the European Union, not vice versa. Too bad there's no Mr. Hrelje here, but I'm saying that this package that's going to be taken in already once and this Brijuni Riviera, because it's very politically damaging to us, as much as it's a powerful potential project not only for Istria but for the Republic of Croatia, means to be pragmatic, take it once, do whatever you want with it, because it's politically damaging to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41794	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HNS Club colleague Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41795	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate on the Law before the formation of the Croatian People's Party's Fund, however, I must warn that, in this proposal, life was once strange, rough, difficult, so we are shortly earlier in the morning debate... the consensus that we will correct the injustice and pay the pensioners back part of the debt, either cash or fund, and now in this bill to those same pensioners or one or another category should take something, or not take the correction, not give them anything that belongs to them under the existing laws. So it turns out and it's most often in life that every beating has its own carrot and every carrot of its ass and I have to admit that the timing of coming to parliament with this bill is extremely well chosen because it's being discussed the same day on both legal projects, so most of those who expect to be quick about can get money with less attention and what will be future. In the law before the pensioners we gave the possibility to choose whether to enter the Fund or to apply for cash payment, however, in this Law they no longer have a choice. In fact, I would like to remind you that it was in good time that the pension law in which ten of the most favourable years were taken as a basis for the calculation of pensions was taken, and since 1999 there has been no more of it, so that they do not have as many decisions as they can make, which they will choose. As an argument for this amendment to the Law, the main group of arguments is the situation in the Croatian economy, the growth of the gross social product and the possibility of the state budget to follow the existing Law, along with the founding of fellow Hebrang, in order to continue this formula requires an increase in the contribution of therefore a new burden on wages, which would not be in the long term in the interest of anyone. I can accept that that's true and then I have to ask myself what happened at the beginning of last year. Namely, if I remember the existing formula by which pensions are aligned with salary growth was introduced last year. This morning I examined a phonogram of discussion and arguments and an argument in the last year where we were then convinced in the Assembly here that it was something that was not only fulfilling the obligations under the contract between the Croatian Democratic Community and the party of pensioners but that it was a reflection of the economic possibility of the Republic of Croatia. The truth is that in October of the month, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the document pre-accession economic programme 2005 to 2007 argues that further respect for this formula is not economically sustainable and that it will need to seek a different solution. So in October last year I was about 4 months after we changed the law and introduced an existing formula it was obvious that it would not be long... Now it's just another thing if everyone immediately understood this economic pre-accession programme or if they thought only the government was joking and that the formula would always remain, I knew immediately that they would follow these changes soon and that without it they couldn't follow the mass of pensions, especially because of the number of increases in pensioners... We in Croatia have two groups of pensioners, not counting their debt divergence, namely all those who were lucky went into retirement in 99th as the basis for retirement were taken away from them for 10 most favourable years. All those who are going to retire from the 99th and now to the future are taking a certain prescribed period of time at the moment it seems to me that 26 years ago, with all those who will retire in 2010 and after that the calculation of the pension coefficient will be done for the whole working life. Not ten of the most favorable, not the last fifteen, not the last twenty-six, but the whole working life. And that is precisely why those who retire this year, last year, before or next year with the same salaries and with the same titles, education and work have pensions far less than those who have gone before. These people retired with a smaller pension at the start. Not 1%, not 2%, not 8%. The largest number of pensioners gets a pension solution of 400 kuna this year. That same category of pensioners is now changing the indexation formula twice a year, and on a smaller basis, a smaller percentage, and they are going to be more and more lagging behind with my pensions than they were before. In its explanation of this bill, the government mentioned that last year the indexation was first 4% because there was so much pay growth and then 2.3% and that the continuation of this formula would have a tendency to speed up growth, expenditure and gradually increase the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product, which is financially unsustainable. One hundred million kunas in this year will be saved by state money, according to the explanation, and I say less to pay for pensions. By 2007, this savings, I'm putting under quotes here, it's going to be a billion and 600 and I'm going to make a billion and 600 less pay for pensions. And by 2014, it would be 25 billion kuna. These are the figures that the government has provided in the light of this proposal and the pensioners need to know. So if they know that, then they will be able to count and see for each of their personal pensions how slowly they will grow. What else do we have these years? People are on the run for early retirement because they calculated that if they retire that year when they will be paid as a basis for the entire working council they will have a lower pension than with a reduction of 4.08% per year for early retirement. And that's why we have a situation where at the end of 2004, there were millions and 54 thousand pensioners and at this point we have a million and 72 thousand. So there are 18 thousand new pensioners with a large share of early retirement pensions because people are trying to escape because of that provision on the account of the entire working life. At this point, the number of pensioners is 1.38 per pensioner. The trend continues to increase the number of pensioners will continue to reduce this by the more employment does not grow so quickly. This will also generate a problem in pension funds because not only the pension rate but also the number of pensioners affect how much money the state must provide for regular pension payments. In the first month of 2004, the average pension rate was 42.4%. In the first month of this year it was 41.38% and in May, therefore, the April pension paid in May the average pension rate in average salary was 41.61%. The government's 2007 programme states that the economic objective of growth development is to achieve 70% of the average wage. This is also included in the agreement between the retired party and the Croatian Democratic Community. Not that he's growing up. He fell from 2004 and fell. So that's official data. Whether the purchasing power of the pension is the same, dropped or increased, regardless of the type of formula and indexation. In the first month of 2004, the average pension covered 55% of pension baskets. In the second month of this year, it fell to 48%, and these are also data that are not made up but are official. A March payment this year with a April payment. 337 thousand pensioners received a pension of up to 500 kuna. 305,000 pensioners received a pension between 500 and 2 thousand kuna, or when you add it up, that's 640 thousand pensioners receiving pensions of up to 2 thousand kuna. What's increasing the number of pensioners? Because of that calculation of the entire working council, the number of people who will have a pension of up to a thousand will be growing and larger with a growing indexation and harmonisation of pensions. A fellow Cain calculated and said that the Swiss formula is now more favourable to the pensioners but not in the long run. It is not true, because it is not harmonised and 50% of the cost of living is taken, but 50% of the consumer price index, the rise in consumer prices as the only measure of comparison and price growth. In the first month of this year compared to the 12th month last year, that growth was only 0.3. If we compare the first month of this to the first month of last year it's two, but this indexation and the calculation will be done with a half-yearly reckoning. If it's an annual two half-years, it's going to be about one. And half of one is half 0.5, so if it's true that average wages grow with only 1.6% and not 2.3 as it was in the last indexation, then it's loss 1% on each indexation, in March and September, and that's pure mathematics. I can accept the claim that it is a reflection of the economic situation, but nothing more important happened since last year when we changed the law and introduced an existing formula. Neither did the European Union have any different standards and nothing more important has happened so far that it was then claimed to be formally objectively possible and realistic and now that we are changing it. The burden of stabilising the pension fund and funds will be borne by pensioners, especially those who retire this and next year. And finally, we won't support this bill for two reasons. First, there is a reduction in the accounting of start-up pensions and their indexation. And secondly, what this same government last year assured the Croatian public and us in the Parliament that the formula that is currently in force and which they are now denying is a reflection of the state and possibilities of the Croatian economy. If we accept a game like this, we will change it one or two times a year each year with different arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41796	Thank you. He's a colleague of mine. On behalf of the SDP Club, counterpart Davorko Vidovic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41797	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I would have come from this last thing my colleague, my predecessor, said the SDP Club couldn't support the bill. The first reason, it is not understandable to insist on an emergency procedure and not to go into two readings in one Law such as this, which is fundamentally important and significant, as well as to what colleagues have talked about, and in addition to that, is also said in the very explanation, affecting both the material position and the social status, therefore, the pensioners and the state budget and the state finances. Why emergency procedure? We did not get an explanation that could satisfy us and that could motivate us to accept the bill. That's the first very principled reason. Are we going to stop talking about important things in this country so little, so badly prepared, and spend days and nights here on marginalities and people's lives? That's not acceptable. Another fundamental reason why we can't accept this bill lies in the fact that it's truly amazing, let's say now listen to a fellow Hebrang who, but diametrically contrary to what he was saying a year ago, spoke today. It's on the one hand underestimating the minds of people who listen to the argument that this government gives an hour another time. That's a scandalous understatement I'd say to these people's common senses. As it happened in a year that we were assured by government gentlemen last year that precisely because of the care and concern for the pensioners but also because of the confidence in their own strength, the power of our own vision, mind and ability to raise the Croatian economy to the level they promised, that such a change of formula could be very much tolerated. When we warned about the consequences and opportunities that Croatia has, then we were silenced with the simplest, most common demagogues that could be heard in this House. It turns out that we are socially insensitive and that HDZ, which is socially sensitive, will now solve the problem and allow pensions to grow to a decent level. The result of major concerns and concerns of HDZ for pensioners is the fact that pensions are falling, their real value and purchasing power is falling in this country, let alone to raise up to 50% as signed in agreement with pensioners in this year and the goal was 70% in line with the state's capabilities. It was perfectly clear that this could not happen to them and to each other. It was perfectly clear. What I warned you about last year was people don't say it because it's not fair, it's not fair to people who have a hard time living and who have been cheated so many times. So that's where he's hiding, and one I'd say is a big, moral commitment to stop fooling people with something that can't be done in advance. I'd understand that too at the time of the election campaign, but when power is taken, when the country's problems are seriously solved, it's inadmissible. Then the Swiss formula was declared something that needed... Because we'll find a better solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I warned, Cain was counting something but it's not a good calculation, I warned that the Swiss formula could and may be, because I also talked to retirement associations at the time of my term, it can be good all the while the wages grow faster than the cost of living and while you have a high GDP so far that formula, aligning with the growth wages of good. But what if there was a recession and it happened in Croatia? In a year and a half HDZ has crashed Croatia, the result will actually be seen all later, all indicators are talking about it. All economic growth indicators or fall are talking about it. We fell from the top of the transition countries to the very bottom. At the very bottom. Therefore, there is no more growth that would guarantee both economic development and wage growth, thus increasing pensions. And then the arguments that are given and in the light of this Law are logical to me. I can understand that, too. But I'm also warning you of one fact, I was surfing last night because these laws came into session last night, and they had to be resolved quickly. Well, no one's naive to do that, but today this has to be dealt with along with earlier. Well, no one does, so no one has any illusions. We're going to give 7.5 billion there and here, as it says, we're going to take 25 billion. And then he shows up here, a fellow MP I forgot his name, just before and says that the coalition government didn't give anything and there were 13.5 recognised billion by the former coalition government plus... 4, that means 17, and he's offering here as a rescue solution and care for the pensioners 7.5 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's all very expensive with this law that will definitely lead to pensions falling, definitely, the average pension falling without talking about the drama of new pensioners. The drama of the new pensioners has begun and it will continue and now there is no prime minister to sit down to explain it. It's no longer a topic to discuss. And it's about a million people. The fact that this is going to go against the head of the current government is not less important but it is important that the problem stands in this country as a problem that must be absorbed must be solved. In other words, it would be funny to say the Swiss formula no, so we applied it, to state the arguments that the government now states unnecessary. But seeing what happens to real pensions, new pensioners, it is necessary to find a way to prevent it from falling behind. True cataclysm, the real cataclysm will follow those pensioners, for those of my age of 50 means that they will go in 10 or 15 years. It's going to be a dramaticly low pension. They did not enter the second pillar, the third pillar, will remain in the first pillar, as long as we have funding for both demographic, economic, etc., the reasons mentioned here, it is clear that the dramatic period for these new pensioners is ahead of us. And that's where you have to look consensually to say the solution, what to do. We're all paying for the amazing numbers together. When I was a former minister, I mentioned to my colleagues they were unconscious and wondering how that was possible? That you have one pensioner and 1.36 insurance. And of those 1.36 insurance companies, at least half of them work in what they used to say upgrades mean they're funded, they're not, they're not, they're not what direct valuemakers would say. That's right, that's how things are and there's no indication or chance that what can be improved at this growth rate with this mixed or non-existent economic policy. She's the key to everything, and I'm not giving up a good will. I'm not saying it works... Because it's bad, but let's not blur it out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's not cloud the problem. He won't be smaller. That if it seems less visible it won't mean that the pensioner won't feel it at any time when he goes to buy a kilo of bread, meat if he can afford it or not. But to make a country where you have a million and 70,000 pensioners who and when and in what way made them retire, why was it his way of solving problems or pushing them under the carpet because he was unable to solve them? It's a drama our generation faces and will face. In the generational system, why did we have to make a pension reform? And that's why we had to do it because we've been anticipating that something has to be done for those who are coming and that politics can't be run from choice to choice. Nor should social rights be granted according to the criteria of political opportunity. In the 1990s, it was very much in fashion to assign rights to defenders. Whoever could or couldn't have added some right. The pensioners were the last hole in the play. They even said they'd vote for us even though we didn't give them anything. Now that the pensioners have become a political factor because they go to the polls, because they vote, when they have founded the party more, now more needs to, now you need to see how to manage it all together? And then, as a result, we get this chaos, one year it cancels the formula, another year it returns the formula. There's no system. This is a new contribution to the entropy system. System translucent. All the attempts we had to do a little bit of the system were far from being arranged, far from being arranged now getting worse. And you don't need, and you don't need courage, you need responsibility to the citizens of this country and you need to offer a model that will be socially tolerated, socially fair and economically sustainable. All these goals cannot be achieved equally, equally in the same way. But it's possible that there's a discrepancy between these different goals that are divergent between each other, at least to reduce that divergence, that's the difference between these goals. We can have a fairer system, we can go with solutions that will help these new pensioners stop by saying acceleration. It's a reform started in 1999. We've been tracking, we've got the score now. Based on the increase in pensions that we introduced in 2001, there was this leap. That 20% was 260 kuna and 100 kuna and 6%. 160 kunas when the two totals were summed up that 400 kuna was suddenly an increased pension. And that's the difference between old and new. And today we've added something to those old ones. But new pensioners can't stay in this status. For all these reasons, I think it's dangerous to pass this law. The SDP will not vote for his, for his adoption at this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41798	Thank you very much. We have correct false allegations. Hebrang's first representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41799	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the honored representative has said a whole series of incorrect allegations, but here I am going to the red light. He said last year Mr. Hebrang, and with that, I guess the government thought they spoke differently. Of course we did. Because while we were saying that and going to a more favourable calculation, we didn't know what was waiting for us, and that's seven and a half billion kunas of hidden spirit from the previous government in the budget. Well, of course we talked differently then. This seven and a half billion, that's almost 10% of your total budget. The second says this government has led to an economic collapse or in that sense, which of course is not true because it is based on the first quarter that is always the weakest in the year. May month shows an increase in industrial production by 8 and a half percent. It shows an increase in employment with a reduction in unemployment of 11000 and 130 fewer jobless people. A smaller person. Gross national income in May increased by twice as much as in the first quarter, and eventually the victims and the results of Mr. Vidovic fought. And that will be December 31st.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41800	Thank you very much. The next one is representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41801	Thank you, Madam President. So here's the first sentence. So I'm not going to tell a whole series of inaccuracies, not indiscriminate, but inaccurate allegations. The mixed economic policy, the deception of the pensioners, and I think Mr. Hebrang, on behalf of the Club, has explained in detail why he's moving on to this formula. I especially don't trust my colleague Vidovic that you are deceived because you were last year against this formula, you will now be against this formula, but I think the main problem is that someone misconvincing you that demagogy is a virtue.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41802	Thank you very much. Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41803	Thank you very much. Well, in a series of inaccuracies, I'd single out two. A colleague, Vidovic, said, "HDZ has crashed Croatia." That is incorrect. HDZ has saved that Croatia does not crash into a debt Argentine syndrome and has actually returned to a sustainable development formula that is not actually easy. And secondly, in the 1990s, HDZ's power was given to the defenders of maltene caps and fists all kinds of rights. That's incorrect. She gave them the rights they deserved, and that's still far less than the rights the NOB fighters had.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41804	Thank you very much. Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41805	I am correcting Mr. Vidovic's incorrect claim that the claims in April last year were a fraud and that the claim that the Swiss formula is bad. I'm just saying that the current formula that is now in place is better and socially fairer for the retired. One thing, the effects of this new formula Mr. Vidovic gave us last year, if I remember correctly from this pay phone illustrated with the effect of a bottle of water and chips. Therefore, and these are not at all these 25 billion, so he was saying to himself that he was making counter arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41806	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of HSU colleague representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41807	When you experience these two blows in two days, then you ask yourself, can you trust yourself? The increase in pension expenditures did not result from coordination but was due to an increase in pensions. Let's put one thing in the right place. If this is how we change the laws because last year we passed the law that we will coordinate pensions with salary growth, then we should be in my opinion and certain arguments that would contribute to that. The contribution of documents or data indicates that the share of pensions in the social gross product falls. It falls in 2002, 2003, 2004. So now it's not like some say 14% but it's 12.56%, and when we factor it into preferential pensions and regular pensions or pensions based on work, then the question is, what are we explaining this increase? 1.5 The difference in dealing with the social gross product is a very large number. It's the easiest way to round to 14%, which doesn't match reality. They say we keep the budget. I must tell you that this formula is also stored in the budget. Why? Because from a direct contribution to insurance companies, it goes 14 billion and 800 for pensions, and from the state budget 8 billion 320. In 2004, despite this formula and despite the new pensioners, the budget covered the loss in the pension fund of only 499 thousand kuna. So I repeat thousands of kunas. Well, there's no reason to protect the budget. As for that difference, I must say, at the same time, she jumped out of the title of privileged pensions and defense pensions. As for which countries have a system, Croatia has also Denmark and Sweden. We compare well with the best, but others have a combined system, for example. Czechoslovakia has 30,70, Spain 25,75, Finland 20,80 etc. Italy has a alignment with the growth of social gross products. So when we protect the agreement, give 180 thousand privileged pensions to them, apply the Swiss formula, and leave the rest of us who have ordinary pensions in line with salary growth. Our pensions come from wages, they don't come from the budget. Therefore, if we protect the budget, you will choose to introduce for all the preferential pensions and let them now have this degressive rate, and you will see how quickly they will scream. Furthermore, the participation of average pensions in the average salary of this replacement rate. I think the replacement rate in Croatia last year was 42.13 with a tendency to fall, which is what my colleague Lesar was talking about and I don't think it's necessary to waste time here. However, the question arises how will pensioners experience this not economically but politically. Two days ago, we reached into their pocket for 30 kuna, which is the first step of health reform. By the end of the year, we will reach out to them for a new 100 kuna for sustainability. I mean, I'm saying, maybe I said too little, but I appreciate any correction that goes that way, at least we'll know about the exact exact information. We are now going to coordinate pensions, which means if the salary increase goes 2.3 costs in the last four years because the application of Skegrina is still the cost calculation formula, they did not exceed 0.2.03. So if we apply that formula then the pensioners ask the question and where they live, because this consumer basket is quite different than the basket is employed with children. They spend to cover the directorial costs, there are the best even though there are 141,000 benefits over pensions because they are not able. It's those who have pensions up to 1.300,00 kuna. He must appreciate where he's going to put between surviving and paying for communal fees. And secondly, pensioners spend on health care. All medicines are not effective and when they feel that the medicine is not effective, they reach for additional medicines to maintain their health as much as possible. He has very little left for the cost of eating. Some 100-150 kuna so 30 kuna to him is 6 days of survival. And now it would be good to be socially sensitive and socially responsible. I suggest since this formula will only apply after the new year, that this be the first reading. Let's take this all in mind, try to find a fair formula because the question is whether or not this formula puts pensioners in such a position that we can turn the sociale into social cases. Those pensioners who did their full-time work, created these social treasures, they didn't deserve it. This formula is not a valuable consequence that will result. So I suggest that if we decide to go to two formulas, one is privileged and one is for the others and/or we decide that this law is now declared to be the first reading and by the end of the year we will try to make additional efforts for this. I think the good mood we've created with the fund law has been ruined by this. Why? For this increase also goes to what Ljubica spoke of, and to that farmer, and also to the defender. So let's leave them now so by the New Year's Eve they'll be getting it. Why are we telling them now that they're going to be worse off from their new year? I don't know what the real reasons I didn't see it out of reason and let's not leave it in the air every pensioner would think it was tied up here, we gave you a little bit, we took it twice. It's not the right way. And secondly, if this law is passed, I think the lower limit of tolerance has been crossed. It's also the conclusion of retirement associations and retirement parties. It's not my place to talk about today, but let's not cross that lower limit of tolerance. It's the only tangible thing left to do with the law being passed. The law will take place in the next 2 years or in the next 8 years and this is something that is tangible every month, and I would say it is our opinion that this way, the pensioners themselves pay off their debt and save the state a single debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41808	Thank you very much, fellow Judge. On behalf of the HSLS DC LS Club colleague Zlatko Kramarić please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41809	You could have learned that in some schools, so I'd ask you if you really didn't need to throw away what it means in life, nomen est omens, I'd ask you to be polite, elementally civil. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41810	Thank you very much fellow MP, it wasn't the usual controversy, so I'm not even sure about the business, but I can understand throwing out the bench can seriously unfocus the one who's trying to talk. But fellow Kramaric while you calm down, here's one piece of information. Article 207(2) timed out for the 10-minute hearing application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41811	Madam Vice President, honourable government representatives, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm usually a very tolerated man and I can really endure a lot of things, but in no way will I let anyone question the number and that they can comment on it in any way. I don't comment on other people's actions, everyone answers to the public, the voters are the ones who lift or drop or give or take trust, and I remember here in 92 when some were very much, some very little what exactly shows politics is a marathon race, someone runs faster, better, better, better, then gets trust, but that doesn't mean it's going to last forever, so I'd ask you to really keep an eye on it, that's more about one really important law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41812	Mr. Representative, I'm asking you to do the agenda anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41813	Today in public these days, months and years are just talking about pensioners then it's always about the trauma of the injustice that was done, and I also remember 93th year and that decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Mr Valentić, and I remember the reaction of the then party to which I belonged it was the Croatian Social Liberal Party who then wrote constitutional lawsuits and asked for that injustice to be corrected, i.e. it was clear to us that the pensioners could not be one population who should have the economic consequences of the Homeland War. It is very interesting that the then composition of the Constitutional Court, which was the same in 98 years, rejected the constitutional action, was true because of the history and truthfulness, that in 98 years, because of the changed political circumstances, he would have made a decision which was the same as it was, so I can say again, I can really say with pride that I belonged to that part of Croatia's policy which, in late 93, felt that there was an injustice and asked for it to be corrected. Unfortunately, then the President of the Constitutional Court and then the judges rejected it, but in May 12, 98, they made the decision they made. Can I now say and comment on the motives why in 93 years something was not similar and in May of 98, this same decision as we asked to make in 93 years and possibly that both history and some solutions would be completely different than and perhaps today we would not face what we are facing. But the fact is that indeed the number of pensioners in Croatia has grown rapidly and that indeed this relationship that one pensioner comes from 1.36 of those who work, and of those 1.36, it is largely questionable how much they work when we talk about those terms of superstructure and base, or what they belong to in order for the results to be quite devastating, and it is unlikely that 0.7 people have to earn for this million pensioners and those who belong to what we call the non-productive segment of our society. I have to admit from this place, we belong to those who will receive a preferential pension, differently, that I'm... worried about who will earn that pension. These are the things that we have to face, whether all of these decisions that we are making today, we are actually long-term decisions that each of us will have... repercussions about what is going to happen in a certain time and that we must all be concerned about the future and the new retirement population which is a fact that you cannot escape from and what is certainly clear to all of us here that some of us are guilty... in no way can we fix that Croatia's privatisation and conversion was the way it was and that it has brought a whole series of bad results one of them is the fact that the number of pensioners of this moment in Croatia are just such that they had to be organized even into a party that from their own problems they have turned into political power that is very important today on the Croatian political scene. Of course this Law to us in our Club HSLS DC LS is quite clear that it is in the function of discharging the state budget, after all something in its opening exposé is confirmed by Mr Polancec, a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And always as a liberal, I must admit that, or a member of the club or a liberal, I must admit that I am always prone to the state budget being relieved of part of the expenditure, but now whether it will bring positive results, whether this decision is in the function of stopping further pension growth, which surely one large part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not welcome, means pensioners, that is another thing. How to balance actually something that is normal on one side, logically, which is the consequence of these talks by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund, we recently had a press conference where my colleague Adlesic and I were really protesting against one non-transparentity that something was actually happening and that actually the Croatian public found out from the newspapers, that it was not in the right way discussed, and that it did not seem to make us happy, and I am afraid that there are just some results, or that there is a big problem to coordinate exactly how the budget has to be relieved but exactly how to reduce these negative implications and above all that this is to stop the further growth of pensions, I am saying which certainly a large part of the citizens will not be able to welcome. And on the other hand, we all have this moral obligation that we have been participating in these last 15 years in Croatia politics, because ultimately we were participants in any way. Sometimes as a position, sometimes as part of the coalition, we didn't find the right formula. And now when it comes to this formula, I have to be, I think that colleague Cain was saying that he simplified it so he talked to Racanov, Sanader or it doesn't matter what name is mentioned, whether some formula better that life will prove it. We were here the other day discussing budget rebalancing, saying it was a technical rebalancing but what's always a big question, and that's how much it's actually possible to get to the start of the economy and there's actually a secret to all our successes or failures. If we can start the economy, if we really succeed in this process for those who can earn, then when you earn something can be shared, it will certainly solve the problem and these formulas. I'm saying, if this one or that one is better, I'm not quite sure, and I wouldn't want to go ahead. They say that this current way of accounting for pensions based solely on compliance with wage increases, which in some way led to a relative pension growth better but still not good because there was a significant share in the gross domestic product, so then we became a state with the largest share of the European Union, which also caused certain requirements of the international... The fund that it's not good that something else has to be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying, how long, how much better this is gonna be, I say, show your life. I would like not to be pessimistic and in some way should be the one in politics, to belong to those who will work to expand a positive environment but I would like to have my life positively, to confirm me rather than deny me. I say, the fact is that the Republic of Croatia has a really large pension expenditure compared to the developed countries of Europe. The fact is also that it has an extremely large number of pensioners and that it has an unfavourable demographic movement. All this really points to the necessity of changing the pension coordination system. However, the question is whether this is the happiest way to save certain funds in the state budget. Our pensioners belong to the category of population with an extremely low standard because their pensions are largely unsettled by their most necessary living expenses, which is very well spoken about by a colleague from the Croatian party of pensioners. I say, then I am not inclined to address the issue of pension reform in the proposed way. Comparing with European countries where pensions are aligned to a combination of wage growth and consumer prices is never appropriate because analogies are not good, this is the worst way in logic, when you conclude according to analogy then everything can be answered, you will always find an example that will confirm your thinking but analogy is not serious or cannot pass one more serious critical analysis. I say, that's why comparing with European countries is not good because European countries Sweden, Denmark is exactly what it is because of what it is and when you say something that it is like that in Sweden, I'm afraid that we are not doing well to those we want to defend our interests and these are our pensioners today, and this is indeed one respectable army of almost a million people. The very text of the final law can't be said very much because its basic intensity is just... We have already said that we do not have a very positive position on behalf of the club, but we must commend Article 3 of this law which we consider to be suitable for those persons who for various reasons were forced to conduct litigation for the protection of their labour rights and, in the event of a favourable outcome, they received one-off payouts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also consider a good law on existing practice in the labour assessment process in the event of the exercise of pension insurance rights based on disability. And what we have to say right now is really still this club is going to very much insist on these structural reforms, these shifts in our privatisation, to see privatisation, an economy like the one that can actually ensure that many problems are solved, and between that and retirement problems. And given everything we've said so far, our club will be restrained from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41814	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41815	Dear Vice President, in this piety speech by my colleague Kramaric, from which I could not understand the position of the club, which is 2/3 in the government and with 1/3 in opposition to this legislative proposal. A sentence that had an unambiguous meaning, which is a sentence that practice would show which formula is better, depending on who is better. The formula now proposed by the government is better for the government and this is what the government wrote that it will save 25 billion by 2014. The formula that the government proposes for pensioners is worse, just by losing those 25 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41816	Okay. My colleague Stazic certainly knows that there is no comment in the rules of procedure and this correction of the incorrect quote was definitely not. My colleague, Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41817	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must tell Mr Kramarić that mathematics and algebra as part of mathematics is a very exact science and with the given parameters in two formulas is very precise and can clearly calculate what is better and what is not. Thus, life cannot decide what is better than specific and clear data.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41818	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41819	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! Well, it would be good if we had some discussions elsewhere, but it's not up to me to comment. So, the very fact that we received this bill last night and this emergency procedure and the fact that we are already discussing such an important issue today, which means the poorer reception of pensioners cannot be supported and supported by the Croatian Peasant Party. The Croatian Peasant Party will not accept and will not support the law. And just as I was speaking in my closing statement about the previous law, I said in a few minutes we'll be on the subject where we're going to find out from my "At Cupriya won, on the bridge lost". And it's a fake. So that this bill can at least be made a demagogue speech positive is quite certain that today we would have a Prime Minister here again who would sing praises to the bill. However, there is no Prime Minister now, and during the transfer of Croatian television, when we discussed the previous law, it was solemnly the advantages of the law. Is an advantage for a pensioner if he returns 50% of the established law through the fund and this law takes away twice as much. This law takes away twice as much. We are, I think, a representative of everyone especially if on behalf of the club is allowed to say what they think it's democratic first, at least that's how they taught me in that dark system, but they said so, and probably others. We knew that the amendment proposal and the addition of the law would take place last year when we passed amendments and amendments to the law that brought pensions in line with the salary increase and that's when we said it. In our debate, we said that this law would change very quickly. Then it was completely different to say, it was completely different to explain it than we have today in this law. I have no doubt that the parliamentary majority will vote on what its satisfaction is, regardless of the adverse consequences that millions of pensioners will bear and those pensioners who will retire after the adoption of this law that I am not talking about what happened to pensioners who have been retired since 1999 when one day retirement was crucial to a worker who worked in the same jobs, had the same salary, but when he retired one day made huge pension differences. It may not be a good reminder, but this law will bring us back to it. In 2000, when I received data on the average pension paid that average pension at the time, so at the end of 31. 12. In 99, it was 35.51% of the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. We made an effort in August 2003 to pay an average salary of 43.79%. As representatives, of course, we would prefer that the percentage of the average salary increased much more because today living people who have not forgotten that for 88 years the average pension was 70% of the average salary paid back then. Today these people live even today when they say so, then they are declared Yugoslavs. There were optimistic announcements that it goes first to 50% and that the target is 70%. However, as we have today, here we heard, I believe that the colleague presented the correct information, that the average pension in May is already 42.61% of the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that 42.61 is less than 43.79. Therefore, we already have a pension drop and with these amendments and additions to the law and pensions still falling. With or without Tomcic, but while Tomcic was then retired from 35.41 to 43.71% of the average salary paid. I know that the truth is not good, or that the truth is reluctant to listen. However, it is what it is, and even so far away that the proposer himself eventually admitted it in an explanation. Well, we're not making up this data that we're explaining, but that's what the proposer delivered to us. And it is up to us now to make a political decision whether or not we are accepting the proposal that we know is leading the average pension and pensions back down to where it was. However we were, at the time when retirement was stimulated, and retirement was stimulated, we know why, she told us the revision of conversion and privatisation for what. When an internship was paid to obtain pensioner status, we knew that such a system was unsustainable which led almost to the equalization of pensioners' employees is unsustainable. We were against it back then. However, these were also not systematic solutions, they were fire-fighting solutions to buy social peace, and now we are coming into this situation and now we are also proposing a demand from the bottom to raise our hand. Such a hand will not be raised by the Croatian peasants' club and the Croatian Peasant Party will not vote for amendments and additions to the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41820	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Schoolboy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41821	Thank you very much. Here, dear colleague Lalic in her debate had a number of incorrect allegations. A series of incorrect allegations and I would only correct one of them and what she said was during Tomcic, she was actually referring to the coalition government in the past term if pensions had grown. And I'll tell her what's right. It is true that your representative of the party at that time, and with intent, has provided for his age, has retired one day to achieve the right of the President of the Parliament to retire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41822	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41823	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Rules of Procedure are injured by knowingly allowing MPs to move away from the topic of conversation so as not to correct my exact allegations. I was quoting the information that we got from the authorities, so if they'd confirmed those license plates they delivered to us, they'd retire.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41824	It's necessary to say which article is injured, we all know that, but it looks like we have different styles that border on good taste. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41825	Madam Vice-President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Lalic, where she said they had provided funds to make pensions grow in their time of government. That's incorrect. They provided foreign banks with funds that they spent and owed Croatia from $9.5 billion to $24 and from there they acted as drunk billionaires sharing their hands and hats and brought Croatia to the brink of failure with such arrogant behaviours without taking care of the state budget, incomes and expenditures and neither of the debt of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41826	Thank you very much on behalf of the HSP Club representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41827	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, the Croatian Party's club of rights will not support this law and demand that this law go to a second reading. Unfortunately there will be no Mrs. Lalic that saying won on the chubra, lost on the bridge for the pensioners, namely half lost on the chubra, the rest on the bridge, as the situation now seems. Therefore, there is no loss but they lose everything. When they get the calculations, they'll see that's not what they expect, and now that they see when this Swiss coordination system comes in. Someone with 1,500 kunas 1% doesn't mean anything. And those who have privileged pensions 1% means a lot to them. So the government here had no general social hearing. She had no social hearing at all. If she had a social hearing, she would have kept for the pensioners with the lowest pensions harmonising the current as it was resolved and for those who have above average, let's say that the average salary of the pension could have been introduced and slowly adjusted and that the part that's been said in agreement with the pensioners because we know that pensions are already falling in relation to that part of the average salary that should be and what goes on further will be falling. And objectively, beware, the pensioners and they are very many who have 1500, an even lower average pension that part of what they take with these increases is small compared to those with privileges. Watch out for 30,000 authorized far more than these 800 grand. Now look at the official data and statistics of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. So the worst is, as we've had many other cases, there's no hearing at all about those in the worst, most difficult position and we also have that social part. And that's why we suggest that this law certainly goes into another reading because we can't accept this in any way and we're aware of the fact that it's a difficult economic position in the state, we're aware that all the facts that the number three yields were working for one before the war, now the situation is that one works for one and most of it is in the administration. So there are no new jobs, no jobs, no economic growth, and that all reflects directly on this part. But I say this much insensitivity I couldn't expect. And that's why what always happens to us happened to us. If the first law had been discussed, for example, before last session, it would have been debated all day in this assembly. Look how it happened now the MPs are already tired. We have received nineteen, twenty new points this week, these are all crucial, large points concerning citizens' standards, Croatian, their rights, their obligations, and the government has deliberately speeded it all up. She purposely hurried everyone to catch us in "Zeitno" and to make it look like hell. It works all the time. It was done at every break, at a break so-called. In the winter break, I'd like to say according to the Constitution and this summer. That was in the 12th month last year. It was the same last year in July, and that already means it irritates us MPs, and it primarily irritates that part of total social insensitivity. So we can't support this, and we're asking it to go to another reading, and we're asking the government for social sensitivity. Therefore, at least take the criterion that those who have pensions below 2000 kuna will remain an old part of the coordination. For all these other new ways of synchronising and that, one transitional period because if we get it, we get it this morning or tonight, we get to study it last night. The committees that met were wondering if they had a quorum for that meeting? How much was there and everything else? This, this is, it's such a stampede but against the interests of the citizens, against the interests of the pensioners, and I don't know, I think we'll all laugh that we've even agreed to discuss these points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41828	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41829	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's since there's a constant mention of the bridge and the chupria is an absolutely incorrect assumption that people lose both on the bridge and on the chupria. They get as much as they can. But what's true is that you're getting more and more in the middle of the bridge and you don't dare on either side or on the other side, and from the middle, it's the easiest thing to do is yell. But you're going in the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41830	The second correction by the respected representative Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41831	Thank you very much. counterpart Kovacevic said the pensioners would get nothing or get some crumbs. That's not true. The pensioners' party and the Retired Association have agreed with the Government and agreed to repay the debt of the pensioners in this manner and your exposure serves only to defile the government and to intimidate the pensioners and residents.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41832	Third correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41833	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Pera where he claimed that the government had no social hearing or sensitivity when she proposed this method of reckoning. It dealt with economically acceptable rates and real possibilities of the State budget not only in this year but also for the future and for the coming years, and this was done and it thought that the future governments would have no problems with the calculation and pension incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41834	And the fourth correction by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41835	Mr. President, most of it is fixed. My correction to Mr. Kovacevic's incorrect quote is that the committees that met had no quorum. The committees have met. They had quorum and made their own decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41836	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41837	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with your associates. My colleagues and colleagues. What is this Law, what is its quality, and what are the consequences of the best speeches, is this present moment in which we are discussing it. No Prime Minister, no Minister, and it's as if he's suddenly and the pensioners aren't our consciences, as Mr. Prime Minister said before, when he was talking about the law, about the Retirement Fund bill. Apparently, he's aware himself that at least with that previous law he said himself, the opening letter here feels there's not much to say, so he leaves it to others. It's a characteristic already, so we don't need to talk much, but I'm showing a story about what it's about and sometimes we're wrong. Here a few days ago, we discussed the Health Act, where on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Hebrang said that, this imposition, this harrassor on citizen disease, and it is not possible for pensioners to understand it because it is an investment in which soon after some time the pensioners will benefit themselves. However, those 300 million kunas that the government was planning to obtain in such a way have already been spent on wages for this year for the salaries of doctors under the collective contract. So neither would they have experienced it, and even if these effects had been experienced for the following year, they would not have experienced it. In this law that we have just discussed, the Retired Fund Act, there are pensioners who are generously trusting once again the government to implement what is announced here. Also benevolent and benevolent as a group of wealthy G-8 releases 50% of the government's debt. But in the belief that at least 50% of them will get as promised. But promises go on long notice. When something is to be given and returned, and what needs to be taken, and whose negative effects it will be, will be seen very quickly, immediately or by the application of this Law, and therefore, I join all those who are saying why hurry, why hurry and why was it, why was it necessary to go to an emergency, in an urgent debate in the emergency procedure? However, from the very explanation of this bill, it is almost evident that it is explicitly stated that this Law essentially acknowledges in its reasoning that the government does not have an economic situation and admits that it will not be better. However, we are getting worse as in the economy here, this is exactly what the Agency's data is showing that our economy has been working for the last two years in completely, in ever worse conditions. In an increasingly poor economic environment, and that's something that's seriously worrying, and that's why the government is aware of it, despite what she promised the Retired Foreigners, it was an integral part of the contract that we changed the formula, we just last year and said it was unsustainable. But the government was irresponsible then and the government is irresponsible right now. She was irresponsible when she needed to get a political partner and allies and now she is irresponsible to those same pensioners who were thus played and deceived and to their own partner. And yet that's something new. Because HDZ has always richly met its political partners or always fulfilled its obligations to them. Not anymore. The Swiss model and such a small piece involving the pensioners will now be like a piece of Swiss cheese, full of holes. And it is quite clear that from that promised law, if it does come to its execution, it is with such a solution offered in this law that the pensioners themselves will do so and that they will benefit for a longer period of time or for a longer period of time. I don't mind the state profiting, but the state shows that it's depriving the pensioners, and that's what it really is. It is explicitly stated here that this law mitigates future growth in pension expenditure. So the government really admits that there is no power to start the economy, at the end of the pensions coming from the economy, that it listens to the lack of its own ideas there is no choice but to hear and listen and implement the ideas of the IMF, they have just come true in these two laws of health care and now here in the Pension Insurance Act. Although, when we spoke, or when we discovered last year at the 8th month that it had happened far from the public eye, we listened by the government to do so. Here you can see that's exactly what it is. And that's why I'm personally against this kind of thing, first of all, the urgency of the procedure of this law, and because it's playing and giving up on the promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41838	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41839	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of mine said that 300 million kunas the government intends to save have already been spent on doctors' salaries, which is not true. The pay logs are determined by a collective contract and I think it is extremely malicious to oppose doctors and their salaries to pensioners, but it is strange that these mourning girls have not remembered before because four years of pensions have been coordinated precisely by this formula that is now proposed, and yet this government has managed to hold at least a more favourable course for at least a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41840	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41841	Mr. President, it is an incorrect allegation that distinguished counterpart Anticevic claimed that the government was irresponsible in her promises to the partners. That's quite incorrect, but it's already true that she faced an over-indebted state budget that was on the verge of argentin syndrome, which I'm evidently repeating from $9.5 billion in 2000 to $24. You have to deal with that fact and tell me where you've been leading the state and how you've led it, irresponsiblely and arrogantly, by spending state money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41842	Thank you. And the third correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41843	Thank you. Mr. President, there are already some quotes that have been corrected, and I'd just like to make one right at the very beginning. The Honorable representative said there is no government here, no prime minister when discussing this law. If I see well here are representatives of the government, two state secretaries, or one state secretary, Mrs. Babic, with the assistant and Mr. Ivić, the secretary of state, also in the ministry. So the government is present to discuss this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41844	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41845	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This morning, we have heard from Prime Minister Sanader's statement about how here is today the law that is before us is a kind of confirmation that he is carrying out the promise from the guarantee card. We also said that a good solution is to address in any way the issue of debt to pensioners who were the previous point, but the promise from the guarantee card falls unfortunately at this second point. Namely, Prime Minister Sanader as well as HDZ promised the pensioners that they would be given a new formula by which pensions would be paid, and in 2000, or 2004, when this law was passed, that the new formula could not go because the economy in this country, or the budget, so everything that is related to the Croatian pension system, could not be maintained stable, then the HDZ message was sent to us that we simply did not know how to run the state, that we were incompetent, and here their ability now, or yours in just a year and a half of days, proved to be what it was. So only six months have already given up the new formula in a document that has gone so far secretly from the Croatian public, and it is a pre-accession economic programme. So already at the time, you made a statement to non-Croatian pensioners that you would change their formula and return your pensions to the old calculation rather than promise it to Europe. So right now because of this irresponsibility because we were thought to be a little bit of a moron, so we're not, we're not that bad, we're not really giving the pensioners a new formula, we're not giving them the money. You said we can do it, we give it, we're broad-handed, here now the Croatian budget has sneezed, can no longer simply bear all these heavy-cost burdens that have increased over the last year and a half days, can't even stand a formula like this for calculating pensions. And speaking of some indicators, we should also say that thanks to this policy and despite the formula that has contributed to an increase in pensions, we have come to the fact that pensions fall when it comes to their average wage ratio. So in 99, we had 37% stake in therefore average salary and was the average pension of 1.172.00 kuna. In 2003, thanks to those increased deposits of €2.5 billion per year to pensioners, the pension increased to €1.725.00, so to about 42% of the average salary. Today we are at 1.826.00 kuna, but we fell to 41% of the average salary. Thus, despite the formula that has contributed to the pensioners, we are actually lagging behind the salary growth. Back to this so-called. The Swiss formula will further decrease and the tendency to drop pensions compared to the average salary will grow. Nor has the pension difference problem been resolved. Today, many here said that they were the ones who had retired by 1998. All those who went away later were in a much worse position, having a much smaller pension, regardless of what they had, maybe the same salary, the same working conditions, did the same number of years of internships, simply the legal thing was so arranged that their retirement was becoming more and more unfavourable for them. A colleague, Vidovic, warned here that it would be even more unfavourable to leave all future generations. One because they didn't get into II. The pillar, but also today, is the situation that people try to work as long as possible because their retirement with each long year of work actually falls and that's why they prefer to stay because their salary is higher than their pension. This is why many who retire are cut off due to legal provisions today because they are leaving with an ever lower and smaller pension, therefore, in retirement. It should also be said that the differences are extremely large and that we have, for example, an example. an old, or disabled pension of 278.00 kuna. That we also have people who have a disability pension of only 726.00 kunas, so my dear colleagues, let's think about what it's like to live with so little money, and as things stand, we don't have any chance of having some kind of relationship between the pensioners that as much as we even the pensioners, at least they're in the same category. Not to say that the largest number of pensioners is not the largest number, but a large number somewhere around 340 thousand pensioners have a pension of 400 kuna to 1500 kuna, and these are amounts that are very, very small for a large population to be able to live politely and that when these people come into an older age they could, what we say, live with dignity, I think these are people who are sometimes hungry. These sums I've said here for this number of people certainly can't be enough to live politely. Therefore, we have a problem with pension growth, so to monitor the growth of the average wage but on the other hand, this particular injustice among certain categories is something that remains an open problem and obviously this government will not be able to address this problem because the way things stand is something that holds the entire pension system at the edge of its sustainability. And finally, indeed, in this Law that we have received, it is evident that this change in the formula, by returning to the old formula, by 2014, saves about 25 billion kuna, so much is the assessment of those who did this Law, so rightly all those who had previously claimed that the pensioners had received some money this morning, however, that much more will be lost precisely because this formula will not be able to monitor the growth of the average wage and unfortunately the pensions will lag behind the salary increase. This means that pensioners in Croatia still have one big problem, and that is how to increase pensions and how to allow people when they perform full-time work, when they do their working life fairly and then to live decently from their pension. That's exactly why I'm not gonna support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41846	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41847	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So a man could at first sight express his satisfaction that this Law, unlike some other government promises, lasted a year. In 2004, however, the way pensions were coordinated changed, and it will have a period of time by the end of this year because I have no doubt that the parliamentary majority will not vote. Unlike the VAT Act, which lasted for a month and did not apply. But let's turn to the very text of the law. We started the peace reform in 98 years when it was estimated that there was an unsustainable situation in this segment and that something should be done. We remember then that there were a lot of debates here in parliament, that we tried to look for the best ways to sort of slow down retirement and ensure that those who are already retired and potential pensioners have somewhat better conditions for retirement. At that time, 5% of the pension compulsory second-degree insurance was allocated from that rate, and there was another additional problem for all those who went into retirement and received funds from the so-called. Generational solidarity and all those who will be in that group of pensioners within the next few years. If they had introduced or effectively implemented other reforms at the same time, if our economic results had been better, we might have gained some better effects from this reform. The fact is that no reform other than the reforms in the economy can bring lasting effects, we can at some point do what we did in 2004 with this law but sooner or later it comes to charge. So it's proposed that we go back to what we had from 99 to 2004. I should appreciate the government's argument that this is actually the reason why economic effects are low, and that this cannot be maintained in the long term because the budget has been overstretched and this difference should actually be singled out, which is missing by paying the pension contribution, either from tax revenues in the budget or from new debts. However, it was not so unclear last year when there was a change in the way pensions were co-ordinated, and then knowing in what economic situation we should have been doing, some other effects, or other actions, which would have been more economic growth. However, we are not in 2004 and obviously neither in 2005 will we achieve greater economic growth than it slows down from year to year. So, the biggest economic growth we've had since 2000 in 2002, already in 2003 was slightly smaller growth, the 4th we know what it is, this year we're planning 3.7 and the question is whether we're going to be able to achieve it. And the biggest problem that arises today, tomorrow and the next maybe 10 years is not how to coordinate pensions but how to raise their level because they are really in such a situation now that the largest number of pensioners unless there is some extra income from property or if there is no savings really living on the edge of existence. Here is the information from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which says that the data for May of this year is that we have active insurance companies, i.e. total insurance companies million and 482 thousand and the user of pensions million and 72 thousand. Such a relationship that one pensioner comes to only 1.38 insurance companies is unsustainable and unless there are really stronger economic activities that will mean additional employment we will not be able to maintain such a low pension and then these coordinations will be so declassified because we will not be able to withstand this level of pension at all. Of course, if there is no additional economic activity, there is no additional growth in employment, therefore we can say that the debate on pension harmonisation will be deplaced. The peace in May was only 41.61% of the average salary paid in May this year and it was far from 50% of what was to be achieved in 2004 according to all plans, forecasts, wishes and promises made by the Government. Now, in May, we should have singled out for pensions of 2 billion and 231 million kuna. These are huge funds, which I say, well burden those who work but also all those who pay taxes, so pensioners themselves, because they also make a significant contribution to the state budget through sales taxes, so VAT. And just to take a few examples of what these pensions are like, to say that really those 49,000 pensioners who receive 287 kuna average pensions make no difference in which formula their pension is coordinated because they relate not in kunas but in limes. From a thousand, 200 kuna to a thousand, 216 kuna, the average pension receives about 800 thousand pensioners, and this difference in coordination concerns several kunas. For pensioners this sometimes means a significant increase, but at that level, a low level of pensions we cannot remain in the long term. Certainly, the growth of municipal service energy, growth, actually impact on the living standards of those with the lowest incomes and workers and pensioners will be far higher than average some of the price growth rates shown in statistics. So, the long-term programme of this government, the programme of each future government, is how to ensure that the economy develops, that we have both domestic and foreign investments, that we increase investment because through this we will increase employment and have better economic effects, through which we will fill both the pension and the health fund and the state budget. It's the only correct and only possible policy the government has to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41848	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At first, I'd like to give my confession to the government, if for nothing else, because of consistency. This government consistently and persistently makes solutions that then cancel out. It's a major feature of the government's actions. Let's just remember the VAT that's pompous with the fanfare here reduced the rate from 22% to 18 and then a month later in silence returned to 22. That's how it is now. The Swiss formula had existed before, in March it was changed. There was a lot of talk back then about that Swiss formula here in the Parliament. Here, I will now remind you of what my colleague Gordan Jandrokovic said for example. He then said the proposed measures directly affect the improvement of their standard of living, i.e. the standard of about 750 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that part of the population whose material and social position is very difficult. Thus, the harmonisation of pensions with the rate of growth of the average salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia is caused by the future growth of pensions at the same rate as the growth of salaries, which corrects the present unfair approach by which pensions grew at half the lower rate compared to real wage growth. And today, counterpart Jandrokovic will raise his hand to return what he called an unfair approach. The secretary of state today tells us that this model is more fiscally acceptable and socially fair. So what changes in 2004? What then changed it if it was more fiscally acceptable and socially fair. There was a prime minister here today in the Parliament. He came here with a whole world giving a short speech, striking, rising and leaving. He came here when the fund was being discussed. He's gone now. His theme's obviously embarrassing. I understand that the subject is unpleasant to him, but more than him, this subject is more than he is uncomfortable with the pensioners. They'll have a very bad time, especially those with small pensions. Well, I expected, at least because of the principle of consistency, the basic political honesty that the prime minister when he defends one fund law comes and defends another a little more uncomfortable. A fellow Judge here admitted that exactly what's been said here is that the state under that law that we just discussed about the pension fund is going to pay back 13 billion people and that according to this one we're discussing right now, it's going to save 25 billion. Eight billion difference. 8 billion countries will earn on pensioners by 2014. And there's talk of some big concern for the pensioners of this government. Oh, please, at least. That's what cynicism is about. Cynicism is that the pensioners themselves will repay the debt from now on reduced pensions and cynicism is talking about care. You know, you could say we made a mistake in 2004, we were boasting, we wanted to play ball, we wanted to make some political points cheap, but we saw a mistake, we're going back to the old ones you introduced because it was smarter, because that's the only thing a fiscus can handle. And all right, man made a mistake, so the prime minister made a mistake. But then he comes and apologizes for his mistake. Maybe some other prime minister, this one certainly won't do it. What do the numbers say? What was the ratio of the average salary and the average pension. When the 3rd January government began to run the administration in this country, the ratio was 35.51. When she left power, it was 43.79. That's what the previous administration did. She wanted to get to 50%. It didn't work. There were other projects, roads were built, economics had to be helped, but there was something she did here from 35.51 to 43.79. Today, this ratio of average salary and average pensions 41 and after the adoption of this law will not be improved, it will deteriorate. You know, it was irresponsible to change that famous Swiss formula. Either it couldn't be calculated, or it was being courted, or it was acting politically, I don't know. After all, I don't care. In one word, it was irresponsible. To help the government in this policy, it makes absolutely no sense and therefore this proposal must not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41850	Thank you, Mr. Arlovic, the word has a distinguished representative, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41851	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we have just received a proposal for a conclusion that suggests that this law goes to first reading. I will support the proposal, however, the question arises whether the law can go as such into any reading. Because we disagree with the concept and principles on which the law rests. The fact is colleagues and colleagues when these two laws are compared, this Law and the former one that we have discussed about the fund, that this Law does not result in pensioners, and not all pensioners, but slightly more than a third of them not getting enough but will have a gradually reduced income inflow compared to what the fund should get. I'd like to remind you, only 423 thousand according to the calculation of the pension insurance office and 34 pensioners should get some kind of supplementation from the fund. But at the same time, using this formula to calculate current pensions in total instead of the 13.8 billion that will be allocated from the fund in total with interest for pension payments will save 25 billion. If that is the case, not only will the state not pay back anything, but the pensioners from the current pensions will finance the return of their debt over 8 years and the rest of them will earn nearly 8 billion kuna. Now that's one problem. Another problem that is even bigger and more serious, the fact that there is a constant difference and that this difference is constantly increasing to the damage of newly-inhabited pensioners compared to the pensioners of previous or older times... and the fact is that this law in the fund and this law on the billing that this difference will increase even more because actually the newly created pensioners will get nothing, i.e. they will get even less from current pensions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's going to be something that's amazing, but it's actually true, while society is going to manage the fund's assets there as if it's going to acquire some kind of property to pay back some part of the pensioner's money, practically out of this money of the current pensioners, practically ensuring that all the assets of the fund have to be secured by the state, certain equivalents. Such a situation raises a serious question as to what we are doing. Not only does it seem to me that the folk here is going to get something on the bridge on the chalice you lose, but here you lose both on the bridge and on the chakra. And in such a situation, the question arises at all whether in our terms it is possible to apply the formula in question. In fact, when mentioning some countries using the Swiss model, it is necessary to take care of the social minimum and the existential needs that are being protected there. Our social minimum, through minimum guaranteed salary, does not provide for a working family, let alone the lowest pension to be... Retirement insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in such a situation it simply raises the question whether we have the right to pass such a law in accordance with the Constitution that guarantees social... And transfer one serious burden. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Always 423 thousand but certainly on those remaining 650 thousand pensioners to draw a thicker end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's about, now we have a million and 74 thousand pensioners. Of course it would be very important to discuss something else, if the number of jobs opened and employment from which the inflow would provide funds for pensioners and their growth would be increased, then something else would be. This is how we find ourselves in a very serious situation and I don't know how to come out of this and in what way. A few individual remarks. ... Article 1 Dear colleagues and colleagues, Article 1 is amended and goes on to assume that monetary incomes and for a user who does not have successors in the Republic of Croatia should remain additional to the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the state should be given money from the title of reducing pensioners by applying the new budget, and should now be given additionally from the title of the claim when the heir has no one, or the beneficiary has no heir to inherit it, and at the same time it is replaced that it once belonged to the local self-government unit. Why? So he lived in that local self-government unit, he worked there, made wages, taxes and contributions. And the fact is that now the budget pays between... and contributes almost 2/# amounts of pension, but the fact is also that before that the budget has deprived pension funds that had a lot of money once, they used to have, in the '90s had a three-month reserve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now they don't, but from the current incomes, that part is being financed. Therefore, the question obviously needs to be resolved. Of course, there is a particularly interesting explanation for emergency procedures. I fully believe that this argument of an emergency procedure should not be accepted and that, among other things, there must be a reason to go to another reading, if I say so at all, there is again any basis for this law to be passed. Why? Because it is said here: it is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure law, given that the proposed law addresses issues that are relevant for the stability of pension insurance and financial sustainability over a long period of time. And it starts to apply 31. 12 this year. Now the first question is why 31. On 12th of this year when pensions are charged in advance, it should therefore be from 1. Next year, nothing would happen. The second question, if they're counting backwards, is whether or not we're going to cut off the pensioners for Christmas and New Year's Eve. And the third question, we have months and months ahead, now it's only seven months to pass the law as a final proposal and to discuss it again and consider this... Come on, let's say there's some other reason you can't see from this text why you should bring this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there is, I don't believe that's the reason we discussed... I'm simply referring to the Agreement with the International Monetary Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it should also ask a question that is equally interesting to me, and this is related to Article 2 between Article 67, when a claim is made and a few months ago, is now whether it is three or six months as we wish. The question is very interesting since when actually the claim has reached has the right to charge... To pass the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that this question should also be considered and that this is also an important question and that all of these reasons point to it, if we are not beginning as an unacceptable solution to reject this Law, then at least we should accept the first reading and that one more time talk about it very, very seriously because it is a huge one, watch out for 650 thousand of our pensioners, you know almost one week of the population. When at least one member of a family who maintains marital debt, for example, it is one quarter of our population. And if we add another member, then we will come up with terrible data and we have to make sure that we can pass a law that instead of making a small move towards social justice and the social balance of social development that will increase social differences and that the poor will be even poorer, unfortunately. That they will be threatened with poverty threatened by existence and existential minimum, and in such a situation this Law will be unfair and harmful to the social community and to the state. And there's something else I'd like to say in the end. I think that since Croatian television, it is completely incorrect to interrupt the debate, transfer, debate about this law when it began, and in fact after the debate over that Fund in which one part of the pensioners are rightly given the grounds to return some of their pensions, what the social community took from them and, where it has suspended, to pay them back that debt through compensation, but also perhaps even more important account of how they will continue to account for their pensions and, in particular, for the reasons of these 650 thousand pensioners whose existence with this Law that we are now discussing is compromised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41852	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41853	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. We're discussing one thing today, I'd call it compensation law. However, they could positively assess the term compensation law if it had positive effects on those concerned. But this is a compensatory law for the proposer, not for the pensioners. It is compensatory because it is necessary to eliminate those negative effects primarily or only on the state budget compared to the law we discussed earlier this afternoon. And it's really incorrect what my colleague Arlovic said that when we discussed the pension fund, it was on the national programme, on the second programme. Everyone could see. And now that we are discussing something that will affect our pensioners since 1.1.2006, then Croatian television estimates that Davis Cup is a much more important topic than the debate on this programme. But it does not evaluate only Croatian television. This is estimated by the Croatian government as well because here we have received representatives of the state secretary who are authorised representatives of the Croatian government, but if something were good, there is something that the Government would like to boast quite certainly that the prime minister would sit here and boast of this law. That it's not good for those to whom it applies and the material that we've got. Of the 5 pages of the opening argument, entitled "Assessment of State and Basic Issues to be regulated by the Law", and the consequences that the Law will take place on pages 4 and 27, it is said that this will have a positive impact on the state budget, and only in the last sentence is it said that the other amendments to the applicable law aimed at simplifying the application in practice will affect the improvement of the protection of the rights of insurance and pensioners. So on pages 4 and 27, we're talking about how that's how the state is going to get in the way of this law. On one occasion, we say in one verse that pensioners will be easier to exercise their rights but we have no line of rights that will be less. Because in the morning, we talked about how we were going to pay the pensioners back, not all of them, but just one part of the pensioners. And today, this afternoon by this compensatory law, we are talking about that all pensioners in Croatia will grow the standard slower than the rest of Croatia's citizens. Because their standard will grow 50% slower than it will grow to other citizens. Now I'm asking the government who is very likely to make a decision this fall to increase the price of gas whether pensioners will pay 50% of the price of gas? Will pensioners pay 50% of the price of lush oil that rises every week or will pay the full amount as will other citizens of Croatia? Of course he'll pay a full, full amount. And of course they'll pay for both gas and electricity and everything else. And for everything else because unfortunately most of our pensioners aren't in a position to think about whether to buy Mercedes 500 S with full equipment or with a little less equipment. Our pensioners are discussing much more banal things. How do they ask those people out there in a utility company or in Elektra to get them a 12-month-old director's fee in equal wars because they can't stand the winter war on gas? And we will now tell these pensioners: "No, the gas growing 20, 30% doesn't matter to you. We will only give you 50% of that collection." The citizens will get some kind of increase that they're doing, pay raises they'll somehow do it but we won't even admit how much wages they pay. We'll give you only 50% of the salary increase. Because it's very likely that you with the cubic gas are much easier and much better heated than the one that works. Here, the government is treating a group of people who are really at risk in Croatia completely incorrectly. The average Croatian pensioner lives poorly and badly. And this formula would be acceptable provided that we get to what HDZ has promised and that, that pensions are 50% of the average salary. But here today, or 70% of the average salary. But they're not today. Not that they're not today. They're not even as cold as they were on the 23rd of 2003. They're falling. And prices are rising. They fall from wages, and prices rise. And what's ours, what's the government looking for? Now to us, we would save these 40% that we have to make out of the budget for those, for those pensions. The rest of us don't care. We don't care what happens. Someone here said it would be good to hire new people, open new jobs. But it doesn't affect the increase in pensions. The increase in pensions has only been affected by the increase in wages. Therefore, only if well-paid jobs are to be opened in Croatia will pensions grow. If Croatia will open what we now have that in hotels management is from abroad and cleaning women, maids, cooks and I don't know who are from Croatia on low wages will not be an increase in pensions. Well, that's what this is about. And the question arises whether we really want to get the pensioners back on the beggar stick, or whether we consider ourselves a socially responsible state that has to take special care of a group of people who have built their whole lives into what we have today and what we are selling out and what's been robbed because today is finally from the ranks, the HDZ bench has come to claim that a robbery happened in the conversion. It's been robbed that these pensioners can't get neither today nor decent pensions. Someone with 1,500 kunas is extremely important and 10 kunas. It means one or two daily meals to him. We here, I'm sorry that his colleagues are gone, he is obviously only here when there is something important for us to say and then there are more important places in the Assembly where he spends his spare time. He doesn't even care, in his debate he said he doesn't care about the formula. He's worried about who's gonna make his big pension. I'm not worried about that. We have, we are even dishonest in this debate because we have secured our rights for life above average. I worry about what the vast majority of pensioners in Croatia will live on whose average peace is 1000 and 1500 kuna. I meet with such pensioners every day. ... I worked a colleague four years ago and eight years ago, didn't I? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Besides, the pensioners showed me trust in Koprivnica, probably because I didn't do anything for them no, you know. I worked with them and I work with them and I help them, but it's not the role of local self-government to solve what the job of the state is. The state must also provide pension funds with a decent pension, a pension based on the social minimum, so that the pensioner with his pension can cover the basic needs of life, because they earned it. It's not the business of local self-government. The local self-government, unfortunately, jumps into places where the state doesn't want to solve the problem. With this law, she still doesn't solve it. And what is even worse in this law is that this law does not speak a word of discrimination between old and new pensioners. There's a new discrimination going on here, one big difference where those who retire today have even more unworthy pensions than those who left six or seven years ago. This law doesn't say anything about it anymore. Unfortunately, we are truly dishonest in all of this, for we have all secured a pension of 7, 8, 9 thousand kuna and it is obviously hard for me to understand citizens who live on a thousand or 1,500 kuna pensions. We should perhaps talk about it at some point, understand citizens more easily, and then make decisions on how their pensions will be calculated. Everything that mathematics says about it, what politics says, is important whether these or some other laws will allow pensioners to live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41854	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41855	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor. Obviously, what we have heard today, in fact, about the discussion of the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, is, in fact, the opening of a debate on the current pension system, more specifically on the reform of the 99th pension system. In fact, the question of the sustainability of the pension system has come to us we know from where, the experts of the World Bank for pension systems for certain reasons have claimed that pension systems are unsustainable, they have sent their mentors across Europe and so on to Croatia, to assure us that the systems are unsustainable and it is set as an action by which no one has any more to ask the question whether or not they are. However, I was little in the opportunity to have insight into the opinions of experts on pension systems that are not under the auspices of the World Bank and their thinking are slightly different and move to different levels, from the level that pension systems are sustainable from country to country with certain approaches, but it is common to all that in each assessment, evaluation and decision-making on the change of pension systems should be very suspicious and very cautious and should not be thrown into the assessment of the basis of fiscal issues alone but must consider all other issues related to pension systems. It seems that this is a question that we will have to meet very quickly, because this pension reform that has been carried out in our country has shown that things that are simply unsustainable happen if we look at it not from the aspect of physics but from the aspect of the lives of people who need to live from these pensions. In fact, we've completely derivated the system of generation solidarity. Furthermore, it is a question of equality within the system itself that we introduced in 99 years. We ourselves have created differences and injustices within the existing current system, and by the fact that, in the course of retirement, some pensioners, or workers in certain periods, have already come into an unequal position at the level of retirement. Furthermore, we have also led to an unequal position compared to the old and so on. New pensioners. It is increasingly evident that the ratio of pensions to wages by further current application and future implementation of this reform shows that there will be a further reduction in pension levels compared to wages that can reach even a level of around 25% or 30%. The question arises whether these are the results we wanted to achieve with the pension reform. So this question that we discussed at the first point, the issue of debt returns is a small matter of this problem behind us, and I believe that in any way we will meet very quickly and with this question. The question of this alignment to the Swiss formula. I don't know if we have to import everything from abroad or even the formula for harmonising pensions. However, these arguments, which are made in an explanation for returning to this formula, I think they're quite inconclusive and I just can't get through, but let's just look here and explain that there's a situation in the long term that increases the proportion of older people and decreases the proportion of young people in the long term. Well, please, we say we won't have a job in the long run. So what does that mean? I'm not going to answer that question, let someone else do it, but I think that's a very indicative question. Furthermore, when we talk about the relationship, the participation of pensions in the gross social product then we deal with a percentage that is immeasurable with other European Union countries, because we simply entered into our pension system what is not available in other countries. Other countries did not have the Homeland War, so they do not have a pension system for defence pensions. Other countries didn't have the kind of conversion and privatisation that we had that threw a bunch of people out of work, they didn't have it, and we put it all on the pension system and we increased the enormous number of pensioners and we reduced the number of employees, and now we're counting on some relationship between pensioners and gross social product, and we're comparing it with Europe. It can't work, such a comparison just isn't what it's supposed to be. Furthermore, the question of who should bear the costs of these pensioners who are not pensioners is to blame for coming into the retirement system. So not only did our defenders freed the people of the Homeland War but all the citizens of this country, they can't just be pensioners who will bear the burden of retirement. Furthermore, it is not the pensioners who are guilty of poor privatisation and the fact that a large number of people have come into the pension system. This should be borne by one who benefits from it, gentlemen, not by the pensioners. And let me say a little bit about this indexation around this formula about using data on these consumer prices. In fact, you see when we take this information then we know that these consumer prices contain those products of non-products that most of our pensioners simply can't think to buy and let alone buy. Therefore, this data that may be measurable as data for other estimates, but this data used for the way and determining the growth of pensions simply does not work, and why we have determined that pensions grow in line with wage growth, we have chosen to symbolically at least improve the negative effects of the pension reform implemented in 99, and for principle reasons because we believe that pensioners should share the fate of workers. Because from the growth of wages and contributions, it has the basis to look at these things in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41856	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41857	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, gentlemen of the government. Elemental political decency requires that I correct some of the views that have been said here earlier, although I support most of the discussions that have come to me from the left, but I must say one fact that the formula of coordination is not in the function of increasing the difference between new and old pensioners and the previous Law that we have passed is not in the function of increasing the difference between new and old pensioners. But these are the rights that belong to them, or because of earlier mistakes, specifically, the previous Law or the height of the pension was determined, one by an old law and one by a new law that came into force in 1999. Of course I have one observation because the sharp criticism came from this bloc and I have to say that in 2002 when additional restrictions were introduced the pension system was not discussed this way, I have a sharp remark on the quality of this debate, that is, to be quite principled. The Croatian Party of Retired People does not accept the way in which this Act is pushed into the procedure, nor does the content of this Act, because it considers this formula to be more socially unacceptable for pensioners, therefore more unacceptable and financially both invaluable and unfair because we have just connected them to share the same fate as those which pensioners, those who contribute to pensions. So, if the salary rises and pensions, if you don't raise the salary, you don't even grow a pension, if the pay falls pension stands, that was the principle that was agreed upon. Why not this law yet? No, because it is not a rush at all, and this Law is predicted to enter into force on 31 December of this year and that its first application will be in March 2006, so we have enough time to bring this Law into force in peace in two readings and to discuss it and to analyse it from all aspects. No, because it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what was put to the vote because there is no reason for an emergency procedure. No, because he's opposed to a pensioner's association and I don't think any government should be involved in the conflict with pensioners. I don't think they need to be taken over, I don't think it's necessary to give in, but I feel that there is a need to have a reasoned discussion and to insist on finding the best solutions in the context of economic opportunities. I cannot accept the fact in front of the Croatian pensioners' party that this is the maximum this society can say on this subject, so there is still too much space, we are not at all the principles that can be discussed. Not because social partners have not spoken about this law, I have no opinion of the Economic and Social Council, this is the law of the labour laws package and, of course, workers must also give their opinion about their future. No, because that's not how problems are solved, and we don't solve problems like this in our homes. Whatever you think I'm gonna put this law in the parliamentary procedure. That's not how it works. I quote here our dear guest president of the Austrian Parliament who spoke about his difficulties in adapting to the European Union and who put first when we have a problem we are talking about and finding the best possible solutions. We're on our own. And we have problems in the pension system we really have a problem with new pensioners, we have a problem with old military pensioners, we have a problem with former republican pensioners, we have a problem with disability pensions, we have a large number of still temporary pensions, where the skills are not done that we get a permanent pension bill. I have one conclusion signed by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader and the President of the Croatian Party of Retired Vladimir Jordan, signed on 31 August 2004, and the conclusion point of the conclusion under regular number 2 says: "the joint committee of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Party of pensioners and" I stress "the pensioners' associations will consider the existing agreement signed on 23 December 2003 and bring it into line according to the economic possibilities of the Republic of Croatia, taking account of the pre-accession economic programme of the Government of Croatia for entry into the European Union. This tax compliance will be realised within the next six months.". This is the text of an agreement between the president of HSU and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the presence of pensioners' associations. I have to say that the task force has been appointed, that the representatives of that task force from the pension societies have made their remarks to the entire pension system, that there has never been a meeting where arguments can be faced. There's never been a meeting to face arguments. We could and could not have agreed on a selective approach to the application of any other formula because we have reason to. We can't in one part of the retirement population build a new poverty and stay blind to it. We know well that every new pensioner who comes comes with a smaller pension, that the level of pensions of new pensioners, or the average of their pensions, is only 30% on average. We can't, and we can't close our eyes and go with solutions like this. We don't want to see that formula that says the new pension system that says that in the transitional period, I understand that, but the fact is that it works like this. The more years I've been doing it, the less retirement I'll end up with. And last year we got 24,000 pensioners more than 2003. We've grown with a million and 50 grand per million and 74 thousand pensioners. So, of course everyone has a personal right to calculate that if in three years they will have a smaller pension to pay him to go to early retirement, that he will also go to early retirement. We cannot deny him that right and it is his basic right but we have a model that creates new pensioners or motivates them to retire. We close our eyes in front of the fact that every new job in the system of pension contributions brings a new lower salary than that old salary. We close our eyes in front of the fact that we have a very developed and very high gray economy rate and if we had one rate, we would call it, half-grey economy legally even though it's against the law but let's say tolerantly compared to that full work on black. But we have it, and we haven't designed instruments or action to fight it, but we're going to cut it. Yesterday, Mr. Hebrang made a claim to the board that we are doing this because pension incomes and pension expenses need to be harmonised. If we were to look at pension incomes and pension expenses, then our average pension would be a thousand kuna. If only pension income depended on the amount of pensions. The height of retirement has been a political decision a long time ago. How much further from fiscal income will we focus on the pension system, and especially in the part, they can connect with another five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41858	I'm asking you not to. There's a replica. Then you'll be on behalf of the club for another five minutes. Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's going to have a colleague named Hrell, and I'm going to give him two more minutes for the replica. Three things that can't be ended with my colleague Hrelja disagreed, but it's important to repeat that we understand each other. For a year and a half, negotiations on finding a solution to the debt return took place and a year or a half ago, this existing formula for harmonising pensions. I warned you all the time during those negotiations on that ancient saying, "Beware of the Danites and when they bring gifts." The other night we were witnesses here, the entire government was sitting when one law was on the agenda and by the prime ministers and all the proposing representatives were given praises to the unions that showed full seriousness by accepting the proposal. Today, when the fund was in question, the prime minister and half of the government were present here, and praises were given to the party of the pensioners for their consent. When this topic came, there are no more prime ministers, no more ministers, no one who has been present and no one is to be praised, so it is true that it is one of the essential laws in which most of the reasons have no position on whether it has been discussed in general on the Economic and Social Council. I've checked myself not. And the unions didn't participate in considering this proposal, even until yesterday they didn't even know it was on the agenda. But when it was the Public Assembly Act, then the first sentence was that the unions agreed to this bill. And if you can amend those who retired until 31.12.1998 by the age of ten the most favourable Swiss formula of 1.1.99. Sanader's last year. At least we'll partially compensate this blow with a new way of calculating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41860	Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HSU Club for five minutes, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41861	Dear Vice President! I don't think it will be necessary to use time to respond to the replica because we have agreed and we have the right as the Croatian Foreign Pensions Club to a principled position. If you wanted to talk about it, you could talk about it. Therefore, we do not intend to pick up anything that anyone does not want to hear. Therefore, we propose to go to another reading, to have time to talk about it, and in this context we act, we do not intend to make any amendments to this, even though we thank our fellow Lesar for the observation that I agree with in principle and would certainly be the subject of the talks to want to negotiate this. So, another one I'd like to use these five minutes for another denial because yesterday Mr. Polancec said the following. Back to the so-called. on an old so-called A Swiss formula that implies harmonising pensions twice a year with half the sum of salary growth and the cost of life will guarantee greater pension growth, Polancec argues. That's the upside-down saw. And with this current formula, there is no pension growth. Why? Because every new young pensioner in the pension system comes with a lower pension, and that automation reduces the average pension of an average salary by a thousand, by a one million, but every new pensioner is reduced in average salary. Furthermore, even with this formula, if everything was ideal, there would be no growth but a slowdown in pensions and compensation would be made for the decline in pensions that was conceived by the Swiss formula and pension reform. Therefore, there is no claim made by the Deputy Prime Minister that the new formula guarantees a higher pension growth, on the contrary, guaranteed a greater pension drop. Furthermore, there's something else I'd like to say. The conclusions of the European Council of December 2001 in Leliken speak as follows. That it is necessary to ensure that old people are not threatened by poverty and that they enjoy the standard of dignity. Yes, and after retirement they keep their standard of living within reasonable frameworks. To promote solidarity between generations and within them. We have said about the declaration of accession to the European Union that we will not reduce acquired social and pension rights and that we will find ways to improve them. It's not someone's side decision, it's not someone imposed, it's a decision that was taken by consensus in this House three or four months ago and we're talking today and on the agenda we have a law that systematically and in the long run reduces the social rights of the citizens of Croatia. It is therefore unacceptable to push this Law into parliamentary procedure and push into adoption without the consent of the social partners, without a practical debate between them and without one consensus because this is also unsustainable in the long run. I agree that it may have been an approach to changing the formula in April last year but this is certainly a short-term policy again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41862	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest a break of 10 minutes to see what it is? Which is the light bulb on fire. Then we can move on. Well, the light bulb's on. Thank you, we've completed our discussion on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41863	Second. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Accordingly, we have a proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of HSU, which reads: "The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act was held in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". Mr. Minister, please. State Secretary Vera Babic, give a brief indication of the proposal for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41864	The government does not accept the proposal for a conclusion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41865	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for that conclusion. Who's in favor of that conclusion? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 47 to conclude, 3 abstentions, 59 against, did not get the required majority. Madam Secretary of State, we have an amendment to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41866	The government accepts Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41867	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Honorable representative of Silvan Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41868	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Your Honor, I would like a name vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41869	All right, let's go to a nickname vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41870	Jeane Adam – za, Đurđa Adlešić -, Irena Juhel - za, Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović -, Željka Antunović - za, Franjo Arapović – za, Mato Arlović – v, Zdenka Babić-Petičević - za, Štepan Bakarić - za, Marija Bajt – za, Ivo Banac – za, Luka Bebić – za, Marijan Bekavac - za, Jure Bitunjac – za, Florijan Boras -, Dražan Bošnaković - za, Ljubica Brdarić – v, Mirjana Brnatić – za, Malina Brčak – Za, Žažan Žažan Žažan, Žažan Žažažan, Žažažan Žažan Žažažan, Žažak - Zažažak - Zalić - Zakić - Za, Mir, Mir, Mir, Žažak Mražak Mražak, Mir, Mir, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zakt, Zakt, Žažajkt, Žažktak and Žažak and Z. And now once again those who were not: Željka Antunović, Perica Bukić – za, Valter Drandić, Ivan Drmić, Anto Džipić, Sredko Ferenčak, Mirko Filipović, Mato Gavran, Branimir Glavas, William Herman, Nikola Ivaniš, Ivo Josipović, Vlado Jukić, Ljubo Jurčić, Marin Jurjevic, Antun Kapraljevic, Zlatko Koračević, Željko Kurtov, Josip Leko, Dragutin Lesar, Slaven Letica, Šime Lugarić, Jakša Marasović, Božidar Pankrevic, Jelena Pavić-Vukić, Valter Porop, Vesna Pusić, Ivica Račan, Furio Radin, Miroslav Rožić... It's not Furio Radin, it's not listed, what's the matter? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Furio Radin, Miroslav Rožić, Vladimir Šišljagić, Tonci Tadić, Ruža Tomasic, Zlatko Tomčić, Pejo Trčević, Davorko Vidović, Antun Vujic, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41871	We have a score. I find that with 74 votes for, 33 abstentions and 8 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act Yeah, that's what we said. [[The intruders don't understand.]] [[Intruder: 33 v.]] What's this about? [[Intruder: Against 33, abstentions 8.]] I say 74 for, 33 against and 8 abstentions. 74 for, 33 against, and 8 abstentions. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41872	We're going to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 339 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the motion for an act at the session. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just a few words about the amendment to the law. Namely, the proposal for this Law equidistences the way to bring the lowest pension in line with the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and the lowest pension under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act. This Law also achieves that all issues in the field of pension insurance rights which are not regulated by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers are subject to the rules, i.e. the Pension Insurance Act. And let me just say that, at a certain meeting with the Prime Minister, the coordination of associations and HVIDRAs agree with the amendments to the law and support therefore, this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41874	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of Club DC, HSLS, LS, Honorary Representative Frano Piploić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Club HNS, PGS esteemed representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41875	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be as short as I was on the War Veterans Committee. Since Croatian people, citizens throughout Croatia should carry some cohesiveness newly, meaning have on their backs, carry the burden of the momentary happening in the Croatian state. That's it. By one small percentage, pensions would be reduced. We are also the opinion of the HNS Club, the PGS that Croatian defenders cannot be past it. That's why we supported the amendment to this Act and I think that if this law is going to go as a whole to the pensioners' level, then this law makes sense. If it didn't go to state level, then this law wouldn't make sense, and a whole other situation would be. I think that in this situation Croatian defenders must bear the same part of the burden on their backs and that is why we supported this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41876	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41877	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The Croatian Party club will not support amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families as we will not support the amendment and addition of the Pension Insurance Act. Namely, I don't know if you've all read the changes you've essentially been making. Namely, when a valid law is passed, it is highlighted as one important newspaper related to Article 31, which is that the right to pension will be achieved by the Croatian defenders themselves. So this is not about the families of the dead, the Croatian defenders, the prisoners and the missing, this is not about the Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War, this is about Croatian defenders who, when they meet the conditions for old age in retirement, and then their retirement pension is less than 45% of the average salary in the last year in the country, then they were meant to get that amount. This provision does not apply in the fullest sense yet, it will be applied because we know the age structure of Croatian defenders, so in full application it would come within 10, 15 years. And then it was predicted that they would get such a pension in line so that every year there would be 45% of their average salary compared to last year. We should therefore be aware that we are not changing anything here, and what is said is being supported and coordinated. This provision has not actually been applied, but has already been amended. And so it will not be every year that the defender who means it is about the defender, the Croatian defender who has, has acquired the right to full old age pension but the amount of that full retirement is not even 45% of the average salary of the previous year. And we know for ourselves that in regular pensions, the pension agreement between the pensioners and the government was to grow and even up to 70%. So we need to know what we're really changing. We are changing what is applied in a small form and yet they are the most difficult group, which are themselves Croatian defenders who do not even have the status of a Croatian military disabled. They're not volunteers, and now we're going to get them, they didn't get them, the kid gets it again, and we're going to cut it down. So again, the bad part, the bad part, and I don't know why it was going to change now along with these laws. And another important thing, I think, in the Croatian Party Club, is that it is more appropriate for this whole section to be coordinated with the salaries of the active military. It was always, before that, the principle that the salaries of military pensioners are also meant as Croatian wartime wartime peoples and families of the dead align with that part. Here we must say that there was also a part of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that damaged the state budget, which was until 2000 even though the salaries had not increased by 2001 by members of the armed forces since 1995. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute was against the law when it was raised, when pensions were increased to all other groups of meanings under the Pension Insurance Act also increased pensions by the same percentage and Croatian wartime disabled and families although this should not have been done. That was against the law. When we warned them about it, they said it was such a program, so they couldn't do it, and so the State budget was cut pretty low. Therefore, in the end, the HSP Club will not support it for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41878	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41879	Mr Vice-President, counterpart Pero Kovacevic is in error because Article 4, of Article 31, paragraph 4, remains valid. The lowest pension is determined by a base of 45 average net salaries of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. That part stays. Therefore, I would not certainly vote as a Croatian defender for such an amendment of the law, but it is only changed that the third article is coordinated at the beginning of each calendar year with the change in the average net salary. So this Defence Act will only go in that sense to coordinate each year, and 45% of the average personal salary each year will continue to apply to these people the same calculation. Otherwise, I, as a defense attorney, would certainly not have supported these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41880	Thank you. Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41881	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I must say on behalf of the SDP Club that we are surprised that here we are not seven months after the vote of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers has already received an amendment to the same law at the assembly session. We are particularly surprised to remember the words of the government's representatives who said by ordering, addressing Croatian defenders that we finally got the right law on the rights of Croatian defenders that will not change. He hasn't changed for a very long time. Seven months. And here, on behalf of the Government, and unfortunately there is no Prime Minister here who has often been able to come when the issue of Croatian defenders was debated at a time when they were promised anything and there is no Deputy Prime Minister to say that suddenly this best Law on Croatian defenders is now so quiet without real debate changes. And what are these changes? The changes we can agree on are really minimal. But the changes that show again that the government is going to do the most damage to those Croatian defenders who receive even the smallest pensions. This is about harmonising these lowest pensions of Croatian defenders who will receive them after 65 years of life when they are filled. So we're taking back from the ones that have the least. And as far as I understand it, although it remains unclear in the statements made by representatives and associations and by the Government that existing disabled family pensions remain as usual or will be applied to the billing points, this formula would be better applied, but it might be better if then, if some other articles of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences were changed, but perhaps the Government estimated that these changes were too great for it too, or that further changes would prove that this government is even more incompetent than it is. What I see the biggest problem is that here in these lowest pensions and in these adjustments there will be no big savings in the coming years. You disobeyed us when we warned this assembly speaker about a problem. You have not introduced control mechanisms into the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Ministry of Croatian Defence because the mass of pensions is growing and will grow even more in the coming years. You won't save anything here. Last year, the number of pensioners, disability pensions increased by 14%. Family pensions for 3%. So all together under the old law that was that more rigorous number of pensioners increased by 3500 around 3500 means by 17%. Under the new law where there's no control of what can be expected? An even greater increase in users and an even greater increase in the mass of paid pensions can be expected. Because the old law was regulated by the experts at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute cannot produce Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. I cannot determine whether someone's injury or the disease is the result of the war's participation unless the Croatian Defence Ministry has previously established it. So only a person with HRVI status can request that kind of pension. You've abolished that, and you'll see the consequences very soon. Next up, here's what I'd like you to defuse me, very quickly re-creation and patching up this over-extended pension insurance bill. And why is that? For several reasons that will follow, which you should have already done, which you promised to do. What about regulating the rights of the victims of the Croatian Council of Defense. When we passed the current law, I think all clubs here have declared that the question of the victims of the Croatian Defence Council is resolved through an interstate contract or a special law where the rights of the Peace Insurance from Croatia will be paid. It's said to be done, here's a few deadlines we've broken. A month ago, we could hear statements from the head of HVIDRA in Bosnia and Herzegovina that a new interstate contract was initialled under this agreement, according to these statements, some 400 to 500 million kuna would be required to secure in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's budget, i.e. on those pension payments items. So the new 500 million kuna. But the most symptomatic thing is that the other day there were representatives of 100% disabled victims of the Croatian Council of Defense in a conversation with various parliamentary clubs and what I heard really fascinates me. No one from the government, I'm not surprised that none of the parliamentary deputies could say that, I believe they don't know, but no one from the government could tell them anything about this initialed interstate agreement. This is truly surprising, and I ask the question of whether the state can be taken seriously in this way. We're in trouble, this government is in trouble. We need to find the funds, and they're gone. As a result, the dividends of Croatian Telecom may not be paid in value, some will say 240 million kuna. I thought it was 140, now they say it's 240. And it's really unserious when members of the government tell defenders why the government didn't pay them off, so here I am now answering. Simply because there was no fund, although the law was passed, and the second and more important reason was because the last government did not withdraw the dividends of public enterprises by not wanting to waste them in consumption, but leaving them for development. This government pulled those dividends, okay, that's her right. But when it was due to comply with the HT privatisation law and transfer that money to the Croatian Defence Fund, money was said to be gone and then we come to how this government's policies are being led. What we've given in the new law, what little we've given with our right hand, with our left hand we've taken, and it looks like there's going to be more. At the same time, one small thing was forgotten, in all these rights and permanent rights, pension insurance rights and other, proactive measures of working with Croatian defenders were forgotten, employment was forgotten. No development, no opening new jobs, nothing. We will get into even bigger problems, and the number of unemployed Croatian defenders, compared to 2003, is growing, tends to increase. Maybe that's why, not only because the funds remained but the second, third year at some 30 million, which were singled out from the Ministry for these purposes alone, but perhaps because of the corruption case where officials at the Croatian Defence Ministry were encouraging 20,000 kunas, 10 thousand were placed in their pocket, and 10 thousand were given to Croatian defenders. So is this the kind of politics that we're going to start Croatia with, with which we're going to help Croatian defenders? It's really good work. But there are good things. What is looking forward to this proposal on amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences are statements by the leaders of defence associations. So I quote: We gave absolute support to Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and the government, which is another one in a series of solidarity moves with government policy. The defenders have always been and are ready to solidify themselves with the fate of their people." The end of the quote. I absolutely support this statement of solidarity with the people and I have always claimed that Croatian defenders are ready to solidarity with the fate of their people. Only a few years ago, while here in front of the Parliament and before the Government were allowed protests, some of the leaders of the association listened to another song, but I accept, or support and preparedness to change their minds, because people mature and need to be helped. Here's the future time slowly or it's over, with a few more words to say. Once again it has been shown on these amendments to the law after seven months that it is not good to manipulate Croatian defenders, it is not good to make unreal promises which are known not to be realised, and I hope that new amendments to the law will not soon be, that it will be announced about changes in housing where some crazy number of 90 thousand apartments are announced that someone will build them, and the government will probably need guarantees, or the state will need guarantees, immediately stress that this is contrary to the existing Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and that I would ask the Government to, on this fact, when it subscribes to such contracts to keep an account. And finally, once again, we show regret that the government is beginning to save on those who will receive the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41882	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41883	Mr. Vice President, in a series of incorrect allegations that he has made and a series of deceptions that have been made behind this pay phone, I must correct one very important. And it is that Article 31(7) which is deleted, the current paragraph 8 becomes paragraph 7, sir read the Bill's proposal, see what is said in Article 7 and then you will see clearly and ambiguously that for Croatian people with disabilities of the Homeland War, who have agreed that this is how retirement is calculated in the future, in fact, savings are actually happening in the state budget, and also ensuring an equal user of pension rights and not creating new tensions between these users in the future and in the future. And what you're still deluding the public here is that the previous defence populations have not supported the government, so that your government, who has... persecuted them, deceived them and stripped them of their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41884	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the distinguished representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41885	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Pancic, regarding employment. Namely, taking care of the employment of Croatian defenders that is true does not lead either this government or led the former because when the former government came to power in the 3rd month of 2000, it abolished the incentive measures to hire defenders and then waited 2 years and again returned those same measures. And time and time were lost, the greatest concern about the employment of defenders was led by Matesha’s government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41886	Thank you. The word on behalf of the HSS Club has a distinguished representative, Željko Ledinski. Excuse me, on behalf of the motionary State Secretary, then you will. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41887	I must indeed react that some statements by Mr Pancic, this government has shown that it has very much to take care of Croatian defenders, particularly by including in the Law a provision on the lowest pensions, which protect Croatian defenders who are in the most difficult situation. I said in the opening statement that the coordination of associations, so defence associations including HVIDR supported and passed the Law but that it supports the amendment of this Act is aware that defenders must share the fate of the rest of the Croatian population. When it comes to Mr Pancic's agreement with the HVO, the agreement is over he is prepared to pass the Croatian government then that process of interstate bargaining will pass over the agreement itself. It is a very different and important quality than the agreement that you have prepared during your term of office and which has never seen the light of day, and this government will surely resolve that issue in the near future. When it comes to telecom dividends, read the provisions of the Privatisation Act a little bit more carefully, so you will understand why the government has not paid off the Telecom dividend on the account of the Fund, because there is no legal basis for it. When it comes to employment measures, Mr Pancicu, a programme that was in your time, during your term of office has been extended by three measures and it is fully implemented in these years and a half and significant successes have been achieved in the field of employment of Croatian defenders, especially when it comes to agricultural cooperatives. When you mention corruption to the ministry, there was indeed an indication that the employee was doing things that should not be allowed, however, the ministry, the vice-president and minister reacted at the same time and thus proved very credible. The government of the Republic of Croatia did not sign any housing contract or provide any guarantee only gave principle support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41888	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41889	I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for some explanations especially about housing but I would still correct a few incorrect allegations. The first is that there is no legal basis for paying dividends, all you have to do is read the law on the privatisation of HT, you don't have to be any lawyer and see that there are grounds. Then, if significant successes were achieved in the recruitment of Croatian defenders, it can only be that the number of unemployed Croatian defenders at the Croatian Employment Service is increasing and around the Croatian Ministry of Employment it would be good to know about this agreement where the consensus in the Assembly should really be reached either the victims of the HVO or to be told to wait for a month so that the contract will be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41890	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41891	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me a few words on the proposal for this law on the amendment and addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with the final proposal of the law. When I spoke a few months ago about that law then I said the following. That it is not good for every government to change that law about defenders, but I expected that we would accept that law as one that would be valid for a long time. Unfortunately, it's happening again, and then the law was being passed maybe in one situation when there were elections, so it was a little bit more of a desire to give up to a certain part of the population, and then we made it quick and now we see that after a few months we had to change something. And what we're changing right now, the HSS Club can't support, and that's basically the right of an ordinary defender who could never practically achieve it. Because when you're looking at an ordinary defender who's going to have that minimum pension, he couldn't use the right to buy a car because he didn't have the money for it then, because he didn't have the opportunity to buy a new car to be free of customs, and other rights that defender if he wasn't wounded, he didn't have any practical means to say. In addition to the possibility of hiring a larger number of people we hear and are now unemployed, it was hard to say at all that anything they could accomplish. In that part, it is obvious that now that he has gone to the deserved pension at 65 years of age, which will be on average likely in 10 years then that pension will be further reduced and, as the secretary of state says, I quote: "the defenders will follow the interests of the entire people and therefore the associations have accepted it". It is easy to accept representatives of organisations who have been in some kind of position in the name of their membership of defence that it is good for them and whether they have consulted members of their associations in the first place. Furthermore, when we talk about here in every law, it is said that the evaluation and sources of the necessary means for law enforcement clearly do not require funds for this implementation but it would be nice to show what it will be in a year and what in ten years, how much less money will be paid through the form and minimum guaranteed pensions. I understand that here's our friend Djakic is HVIDRA's president that HVIDRA in that part has received certain rights and that she does not refer to them. But for an ordinary defender who can leave only that guaranteed minimum pension, he will practically be damaged, and I don't think that we did well in proposing such a law, especially since for ten years there will be virtually no significant funds that would require a smaller number of defenders at that age. So with this, we could have waited, maybe four or five years, and then passed such a law if I understood the law's intensity as my fellow secretary of state. And in that part, that's exactly why I say a common defender is not a good thing that we did, and when I talk about some of the other measures that are being given these days, let's say for the establishment of defense cooperatives, then here's the same thing, we have cases of all kinds of cooperatives that have received some support. Here's one example I know most from a cooperative in my county where I used to live who got those 150 thousand kunas and now they've replaced the manager, etc. When they spend money, it's a matter of continuing to work. And it would be good if we were already in favour of certain cooperatives that I agree to support, but then to see really what this cooperative's program is, who are those people who are behind it, if they can lead it, if they know how to run it, and not just give them a little money, we take pictures and afterwards no effect of it turns out to be. There are, in some, I don't say, but I've set an example where there isn't. You know, and be it good that then we don't say it is now that we in the county have supported one cooperative that has not known a dozen defenders, three are needed to... Even cooperatives with three members received these funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that part, it doesn't give the expected effect, it's more of a short-term measure, and I'd prefer that when we go into such an incentive that we give it to those people who will actually do a quality job tomorrow where they will hire those defenders where they will have an effect and only employment carries some effect. And it's just been visible all this time and not just now for these governments, but also for the past government that we've had an increase in the number of unemployed defenders and these ordinary ones who are now going to experience that they can't normally go from their pensions to those trends and the state of life in Croatia. Here, I'd like to conclude with that. That's why the HSS club won't be able to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41892	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik. He's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 77 votes in favour, 23 abstentions and 11 against the proposed law, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41895	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In Croatia, at the moment, they have four housing savings with a total savings of 5.2 billion citizens. In the past seven years, therefore, since 1998 when the Law on Incentive Housing Savings and State Encourages have been adopted the housing savings from the state budget, with incentives to be paid back to 2004 by the end of the eighth month, a total of one billion and 80 million incentives have been paid but only 360 million housing loans have been approved by the four housing savings banks. And these incentives, on average, grow 30% to 40% each year, and the proposal to amend this law goes in the direction that housing savings would give more housing loans than they've given so far, and that the encouraging housing savings really have that purpose that this law was passed. Therefore, an amendment to Article 7 is proposed. Introducing cross-financing for all housing savings. Therefore, the law will no longer, these amendments to the law will no longer need to be spared for two years in order to obtain the right to a housing loan as defined by the applicable law, but housing savings will have the opportunity to obtain a housing credit for inter-financing before the necessary period of housing savings is exhausted, thus reducing the waiting period for so-called “. ” real housing credit. The next significant change is the introduction of the possibility of transferring available housing savings once a year from one to another housing savings facility. These amendments to Article 13 of the current law allow housing savings to be transferred once a year under a housing savings contract from one apartment to another, and these additions are prescribed that the housing savings bank is required to carry out a housing savings order within a period of seven days. And the third change that is proposed is the reduction of incentives from 25 to 15% based on 5 thousand kuna, with that I would like to note that out of 400 thousand savings, the average housing savings are 3 thousand and 660 kuna. But what is most important is that we will encourage these changes to housing savings and, in particular, with this amendment to the applicable law on the introduction of cross-financing for housing savings, that housing savings will be more credited and that these funds from the budget that are then given will have a real purpose and that mutual competition and the removal of the interest rate of the housing savings bank will be competitive to the business banks, with that I would like to point out that the loans paid by the residents have a fixed interest rate, while these interest rates of 3.99, 4, 4.5% which are given by commercial banks are linked to the currency clause to the Swiss franc and this is extremely dangerous due to the exchange rate change. So, I propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this bill on amendments and additions to the House Savings Act and the state-sponsored housing savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41896	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. The club of HNS representatives of PGS Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41897	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, honourable promoters, colleagues and colleagues! The government is proposing to cut its housing incentives from 25% to 15%, thus saving about 5,000 kuna instead of the previous thousand, 250 kuna. The highest would be about 750 kuna per year. The housing savings should primarily be intended and not as important as the incentive means are but as important as it is for the State to determine the corrective measures to be spent on purpose. One of the possible adjustments is that citizens who entered the housing savings are able to dispose of state incentives only when they have the right to credit. However, as we began with housing savings there in 1998, how we missed the possibility of such a correction would certainly have been followed up on this segment would have caused legal uncertainty of savings and, in a broader sense, would have caused more harm than benefit. In economic terms, however, resolving citizens' housing problems should be at least such an incentive to investment in construction and this should be reflected in the economy as well. I have been observing the amendment and addition of this Act in a package of other changes such as The possibility of pre-financing seems not to be a bigger problem for banks because what banks capitalise the most is the interest on loans and the manipulative costs that banks charge rather than the funds on which citizens themselves save. And right there was the problem that, for the period from 98 to 2004, residents from the state budget were granted even from over a billion kunas, while only around 375 million kunas of residential loans were realised during the same period. This Amending and supplementing the House Savings Act and fostering housing savings enables residents to grant loans for inter-financing and citizens, not as regulated only by local self-government units so far, cities and municipalities. By the way, during this legal period, credit for improving housing conditions and the quality of poorer layers of citizens did not require any single unit of local self-government, just so much about fast for citizens. So, as soon as the housing savings are achieved, citizens will be able to make a loan for about 0.5% to 1% of the unfavourable interest for the first two years. However, according to those two years, teaching interest will be as favourable as in the present case that the disadvantages of the first two years will be corrected during the next repayment period. In addition, this proposal allows savings to move their savings once a year from the savings bank to the savings bank to explain this initiative by favouring citizens who will assess which of the savings banks gives more favourable credit conditions. The intention to take care of a citizen would be noble if the move did not entail any manipulative costs, but we do know that these transactions are a clean and very high-quality task of bankers. So this proposal more looks like it came from the savings themselves. The benefits, i.e. the expected effects of this housing savings proposal, i.e. the bank, are the fact that more loans are expected to be granted and more money will be made in additional transactions. The benefits for the country, which is predicted to save 80 million kuna a year by reducing the incentives. The advantage for the citizen is that the credit for the apartment will be able to realise immediately, which is also a psychological dimension, because you generally opt for this form of savings in order to solve certain housing difficulties. Waiting for the possibility of realising the loan, citizens often solved their housing problems through other forms of lending, especially as banks have recently exceeded themselves in the offer of credit packages, with very attractive low interest rates. In such circumstances, housing savings were mainly used to realise and make more profit on their savings roles that are in optimal circumstances at the expense of cca. Five thousand kunas brought about 1250 kunas or in realisation of about 900 kuna. The housing savings which are very present and successful in some neighbouring countries such as Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, therefore did not receive the desired effects in Croatia either in terms of a more permanent solution to housing problems or in terms of the launch of construction, so they can be responsible for determining that the solution to both problems also means the launch of the economy through construction, impact on the GDP, and the resolution of housing problems of citizens is significantly better solved by the model of encouraged housing proposed by the previous government. We at the HNS-PGS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41898	Thank you very much. SDP representative club, respected representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41899	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the bill of law before us, we estimate that we have one positive thing and unfortunately a negative thing. The positive side of this proposal is precisely the possibility to save earlier use of their resources, not to have to wait two years and essentially to get those funds into office as soon as possible without being anything but savings in savings. And I think the apparent difference between further incentives and the credits used probably also affected the proposings to offer this solution. And we think it's really something to accept. And that in some ways would allow for the real installation of housing funds. If we estimate that a smaller part of the funds has been used during this six-year period that is behind us, then we always have to ask ourselves what are the reasons and, of course, decide whether or not to put any negative proposals into the Law that is before us. Why? As much as we estimate that various aspects of fostering housing have a goal and allow young people above all to gain the opportunity to solve their basic life problem, which is the apartment, as well as as the Government, to assess that it is a policy that means and encourages the economy in raising economic branches and growth rates. Therefore, housing is important in addressing young people but also in addressing the problem of the economy. So that's why we're assessing that the House Savings Act itself, as much as he didn't give and won... We need to work on the effects in a way that continues with these trends, taking care of young people, taking care of the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it's hard for the SDP club to make a proposal that reduces incentives, and especially if we compare them to here, Western European practice is 15% and lower and we've had 25% so far and we also estimate that, unfortunately, we haven't achieved the effects in some way. If the meaning of the Law was concern for young people, the meaning of the Law was economic incentive and, because in 1998 it is unequivocal, at the same time we estimate that it is a better practice than the direct loans of the banking system, regardless of which they currently have a current interest rate something lower but it is questionable that it will be in a year and housing investment is a long-term investment then we cannot clearly accept a proposal to reduce incentives. It can't be accepted. Why? This Law does not give us what is needed, should continue to encourage housing. However, by proposing a new government, I would say programs, the ideas of the former government are slowly leaving, so this will be the only method that will in some ways be encouraged. If that's the case, why are we reducing incentives? We haven't achieved our goals, we haven't changed, I'd say politics in Europe compared to the 98th time we decided this, and on the other hand, we're leaving the other kind of incentives slowly. And that's why we find it unacceptable to reduce incentives from 25 to 15%. Moreover, what we are assessing is that this Law will be applied this year and that the savings will be this year and then we ask if this is also the retrograde of the Law. Why? So because this year's incentives are paid for the savings that have been made last year, so their right to incentives has changed. And that's also what I say is a practice we shouldn't accept. We really shouldn't all those who started saving last year believe they're going to get a 25% boost now we surprise them with the bill we're taking off their incentives from 25% to 15%. The proposal should therefore be applied from next year because then saving this year and if the question is what about saving those who have already decided in the first few months of this year in this way to solve their housing problems. This is the reason why in the dilemma accepted, acceptance or non-acceptance of this Act we estimate that it is not acceptable and the SDP will not be able to accept this proposal due to the immediate reduction of incentives. As much as we estimate a positive definition that speaks about how to use and speed up funds into operation. But as an SDP, we can't escape another finding. And what we want to say very clearly when we observe, I would say this weekly session of the Croatian Parliament is unfortunately full of laws that show that suddenly the Government is trying to deny many, many rights under the current law. Just before the debate over the pensioners and the harmonisation of pension increases. Discussing amendments to the Law on Defence. It seems to me yesterday or the day before yesterday to discuss VAT and 30 days of VAT returns to businesses. So we treated them differently. The amendments to the Health Law have also been introduced and I would say the administrative costs of treatment and now the question remains whether and whether young people with these 80 million kunas how much this is about the difference in annual incentives we send a message to save and we will deny you 80 million. Is the reason for all of these changes that we are significantly removing citizens' rights under current laws the result of the IMF pressure and IMF policy, or would I say the wrong projections of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? The projections that will be able to lower the deficit even below 4% by passing laws with which we did not know what this would mean in the expenditures of the State budget. And it is also evident that the wrong projections of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that spoke about the deficit nearly 4% last year and lower for this year were not accurate and obvious warnings of world experts that something must be applied now we have results in just 7 days of the government meeting. In just 7 days of the SDP government meeting, we have changed our policy towards pensioners, defenders, the economy, the sick and the young. And great. It is acceptable for the SDP to decide whether our warning to reduce all this is because the government has made a mistake in its projections or, as my colleague from the HDZ Club says, the best thing for citizens is to judge. Because apparently less resources, less rights, maybe it's better for them. In my colleague's opinion. The SDP club simply believes that there is no need to reduce 80 billion kuna incentives because the law has not fulfilled important things. It encourages young people, the ability for young people to solve their basic problem, and neither has it solved the economics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41900	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Luka Roic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41901	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act, the State Encouragement of Housing Savings is a law which, by some kind of emergency procedure or emergency procedure, has come to this hall, which says that the situation with each, every kuna in the State Budget is very important. I really appreciate the government's concern to deny any unnecessary lip when it comes to subsidising, encouraging, and any other giving that could potentially come into real terms. But I think this law should just be called a real name and publicly admit it. Because it's no shame not to have. There's no shame in not being able to achieve all the goals we all want. It's a shame not to say it publicly and openly admit that the problems with the finances and the state budget are huge and that we want to save any lip in any way. But as this is about saving exactly the most vital part of the Croatian population, I think it's the wrong approach for young people. I know from the reasons I read that these incentives are smaller in all similar countries, but I think that Croatia should differ by showing greater concern for young people than everyone else, and the fact that there are 400 000 savings in Croatia at this time means that there are those who need such housing policy and I wish there were a little more information in this bill and an elaborate on sub-occupancy, about people who don't have a roof over their heads, about those who need the care of the state so that they could provide even carefree living in their previous years. It's not here. It's mostly said here that it's better to get less because if that's how you solve the problem then the country will be less costing it for 80 million kuna. Of course, it can't be as good for both the state and the individual. It must be worse for an individual. I agree with the state. Maybe it's a little better. Here in this Law there are, as the predecessors and several good solutions have said, the possibility of co-financing can absolutely be welcomed, the possibility of transferring housing savings between housing savings can also be accepted. The proposed that insurance companies can also deal with or set up housing savings, but we can also accept a real reduction in incentives from 15% to 20, from 25% to 15%, we cannot accept. We cannot, of course, accept that this year applies because you will admit many of them who have decided on housing savings if they knew and might not have done so for such a law. Regardless of the reasons that regular interest in commercial banks is now less than in housing savings but people have the right to calculate, they have the right to choose which is their better combination. If they were expecting a donation of 1250 kuna to a maximum of 5,000 kuna, then it is their right to receive it. And not to tell them half a year is what you've been saving for this year you won't get $1.250,00 kuna of incentives but 750,00 kuna. I think it's incorrect, that it's a certain retroactive law that's not acceptable. If it is necessary to save 80 million kunas, let us do so from next year, let it be clear to all those who want to save in the future for solving their housing problems. I will not enter any other analysis of the reasons why this emergency law may be in front of us, but on behalf of the HSS, I must say that it is unacceptable to reduce the incentive from 25% to 15% and that all of this is being applied from this year, not even if it is correct for those who invest, from a future period when they will be able to decide whether to save or not. This is how we brought them before the final act, and they actually have to accept the conditions that we imposed on them, not the ones they chose. And that's why the HSS club won't support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41902	Thank you very much. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41903	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, even with this delay, it will take me 10 minutes to explain what I think is important here. This law brings several benefits and benefits that should indeed be accepted. But what I personally find unacceptable, and I must say that several young families today have called me and said that I stand up for it and try to correct it, is to reduce incentives. This is even about two injustices that seem to be. One injustice is not only about to be reduced incentives in the future, incentives will be reduced for those who have so far paid housing savings for this year 2005, i.e. to pay by the end of the year. I think it's very incorrect. During a period of certain financial years, to amend the rules under which the financial year began. I agree that it was possible for some abuses of this housing savings in such a way that someone used it as a suitable form of savings rather than to buy an apartment, adapt, equip the apartment, etc. But those should be punished, right, but it shouldn't be because someone wrongly punished those who see it as the only way out to solve or improve their housing issues, and because of that, I don't think it's fair to punish the entire population, first of all, by reducing their incentives to something that they've been paying for this year. For example, if those who paid the full incentive for this year had known this, they might not have done so but would have, for example, be able to use funds by the end of this calendar year and 31.12. to pay it at the expense of the housing savings bank and make that 15% contribution because it would have been more favourable to them than it would have been to them in this way when they paid them believing that they would get 25% of state incentives. That's why I've also made the amendment that for at least this year, so for what's to be paid in 2005, leave the incentive the way it was when these people made a deal with housing savings. Besides, I don't know if there were any misunderstandings or whether there were conversations with housing savings, but last month you had ads on newspapers and in electronic media where housing savings just invited citizens to join and become members of housing savings, because if they do today, they will provide 25% of the state's incentives. Apparently, they've been killed in that case, if here's not my amendment. I usually advocate to remain incentives at the level of 25%, but then we really limit it to what this law now seems to be, not to be a purposeful savings, not to be a purposeful savings, but to really be a purposeful savings, and otherwise, this will be an andtidemographic law because it reduces the possibility for young families to come to their own housing solution, to improve their housing solution, or to do something about meeting their own housing needs. I think there are a lot more savings if the state is going to exercise more control over how these funds are being spent than to reduce from 25 to 15% of the incentives, because we need to see what these are all elements of demographic policy. Unfortunately, after a year and a half, we still do not have a plan for demographic renewal that has been discussed, but this certainly does not contribute to the development of demographic policy, or to the fact that young families decide to marry at all, does not contribute to the decision of young families to first, second or third children. It does not contribute because some have calculated that there will be a greater amount of money than that with little incentive to meet their own living need and the other does not contribute because it puts in one full legal uncertainty all those entering a business with the state and here is talking about one contract between citizens and the state and I think it gives one negative signal to our citizens. I think the state budget, and that's what I said about rebalancing, there's plenty of room to save that 20 or 30 million kuna, and it's safe to leave the incentives here at 25%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41904	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41905	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here is after the great worry the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown for the pensioners in a way that will pay them back 13 billion kuna in the next ten years and deny 25 billion kuna and in fact save 8 billion kuna, the government is now showing its great concern for young people. By reducing the incentive from 25% to 15%, the government says within two years it will save about 800 million kuna and on which, on young people. On which other than them. The explanation on the one hand is cynical, and on the other hand completely illogical. What does the government say? The government says it doesn't make sense to give such incentives, it's a waste of money because they're not used anyway. Too few loans have been raised and too few apartments have been purchased to pay for young people from the state budget imagine 1.250,00 kuna. Here's the bill. Five thousand, five thousand kunas of savings was won $1.250,00 kuna, that's $6.250,00 kuna. One square meter of apartment costs different, of course, depending on what city, but costs about 2,000 euros because the apartments in Croatia are expensive. So if a man wanted to buy just on the basis of this savings apartment, if he didn't have other sources of income, then he would need those 5,000.00 a year plus 1.250,00 kuna incentives for an apartment of 30 m2, equal 60 years of savings. And you say after a few years he didn't buy an apartment! So how could he buy it? Explain to me how he could have bought it. And where did you get the sense to save these people, not the MPs here, to tell those people who saved them that they were guilty because they didn't save so much in 5, 6 years and the state was only giving them 1250 kunas to buy their apartment and solve the housing issue. This government is deeply concerned about demographic problems very much, but when it comes to doing not specifically, not doing anything, but when you don't have to do anything, but just leave it the way it is, just don't spoil it, fix it don't, there's no need to fix it, but don't spoil it. Now, when you have to do this kind of effort, you don't get involved, and you encourage demographics in such a way that you deny young people the means of incentives, that's your concern for demographics. Listen, I don't think that the demographic picture in Croatia will be fixed by the posters of Don Ante Baković and the funds that you give out of the budget for that association, not by that you will certainly not fix the demographic image, you can fix it if you withdraw this Law in time not to be ashamed. Don't be ashamed of those young people you save on, save on something else, save on yourself, save on the government, save on them. So these incentives it's a long-term measure, it can only show the results for 10, 20 years but the one that's now started saving or a few years ago, he'll certainly solve his housing issue he won't come knocking on the door of the state, it's the state's interest, to encourage people to take care of themselves and the state to stimulate them for such care. And that 1250-dollar incentive was a stimulant, come on, save it, it'll pay off for you one day you'll handle this problem yourself, you won't ask the state to solve it. But you don't need those kunas in your budget right now, and now you're gonna deny it to young people you're gonna do long-term damage to a cow you're killing for a steak of one. And these young people will be demoted. You know those who started saving, they probably won't give up because they've already saved something, but the new ones are saving it you won't get because they're too little of an incentive. And what are you going to do? You'll do it, you'll cut the housing, you'll reduce the real estate traffic, you'll reduce the real estate traffic, you'll get less tax on the 5%, you'll do damage to the state, not to your government, she's still two years behind you and all the next governments, you'll do damage to those young people because you've gone to that money now, you're just grammistic now you need these money. So give it a little bit different in the budget so you don't have to do it on them. In addition, look at what legal certainty is, people entered into a savings system because they had one promise of one vision that they would get 1250 kuna a year and now that they were getting it for a few years now you turn the pipe to them. Well, look, if they knew the incentives were going to shrink, that they knew when they were choosing the HDZ government that you wrote it in the guarantee card, we, when we come to power, guarantee you that we're going to cut your incentives. Then it'd be fair then you'd have the right to do this. So why didn't you write it on a guarantee card, that people know what to choose to know what's waiting for them. So naive, they thought no matter what we choose HDZ we'd still get 1250 kuna on that housing savings, they didn't promise anymore, but they didn't promise any less. That's not what you were saying in the election campaign. What legal certainty is there but what trust is in the state. We all agree that we need to boost this trust in the state, trust in politics, in politicians, trust that you really want to work for the public good, you and Prime Minister Sanader and the whole government want to work for public good. That those young people are at your heart, that you want to help them. That trust, we all want to build, in politics and politicians, what kind of message you're sending, that politics has decided, your government, that politics has decided that they've been counting on you to deny them. .../The speaker shut down./... I beg you on behalf of those young people who have been saving so far, I beg you on behalf of this country, I beg you on behalf of your trust in politics as a job that is done in the interest of public good give up, withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41906	I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by legislator Zvonimir Mršić and Alenka Kosisa Cicin-Sain. Let's go first with the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41908	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41909	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41910	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41911	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41912	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41913	It becomes an integral part of the law. Speak louder, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41914	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41915	Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41916	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41917	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41918	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41919	It becomes an integral part of the law. Sixth?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41920	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41921	It becomes an integral part of the law. Alenka Kočica's amendment to Chichin-Shain. Amendment 1 to Article 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41922	It's unacceptable. The government cannot accept because it changes the full concept of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41923	Honorable representative of Alenka Koèa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41924	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have tried to use this amendment to save funds from the title of encouraging housing savings to focus on the programme of organised housing, because as we know, such construction contributes to economic development, and it also addresses the issue of housing for young people. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41925	Please, let's get on with it. - He can vote? The result? For Amendment 20, 11 abstentions and 80 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41926	The government does not accept for the reason that in the first year of application of this law this would raise a question about the sustainability of housing savings, and that was why I was saying how much credit was raised in the past period. I know that this amendment would go perhaps in some future times towards use, however, it is the purpose of the legislator that if the relationship of the credits used is changed to fit this provision in some future period.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41927	Honorable representative of Alenka Koèa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41928	Thank you, Mr. President. It almost seems amazing to me that the government can get an amendment relating to the intentional use of state incentives. It turns out that you want not to use purposely these funds, because it is this amendment that tries to make the funds available at the time when loans are withdrawn, not in advance when they are not known what they will be used for. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41929	Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 26 for, 11 abstentions and 69 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. We have two amendments to the respected representative of Zvonimir Mrsic. Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41930	It's not acceptable, because it basically changes the concept of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41931	Representative Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41932	Well, I think this law changes the concept of what the citizens knew from 1.1 to today. So here I propose that for this year, the funds that the citizens will pay in the housing savings will remain a 25% incentive. I think it's incorrect for citizens who have contracted housing savings from 1.1 to today that today, within 8 days someone tells them you're not going to get 25% but 15%. I think this law should apply to what will happen after 1.1.2006, i.e. the funds that will be paid after 1.1.2006. Otherwise, I think it should remain an incentive of 25%, but once it has fallen, it certainly shouldn't be reduced to citizens who have so far paid in this year's funds, counting on it to be 25% of the incentives. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41933	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 39 for it. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41934	The government does not accept it because it is practically the same as the first amendment only in the second article.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41935	Representative Plasimir Mršić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41936	I'm pulling because both are connected.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41937	Thank you. Amendment 2 of Mršić's MPs has been withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 2 abstentions and 35 against, the proposed law was passed along with the amendments adopted. I am giving the vote and the conclusion of the Legislative Committee. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct an editorial of the text of this law together with the Proposer before his publication in "The People's Newspaper". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 100 for and 9 abstentions were reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41940	It's not necessary, there's an explanation in the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41941	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, honourable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41942	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we all already know, ballots have been prepared to vote on proposals submitted by the Supreme Court groups, other courts, legal chambers, the Minister of Justice and the Dean of Law. They have, however, put individual candidates to vote according to their professional criteria, because each of these promoters is obliged to substrate on one proposal to the Croatian Assembly of three candidates. However, they did show one of their own will, from which the profession can only be denied by arguments rather than by the power of the majority to undo it. We know how it was chosen or what the Constitutional Court said in its decision 15. 3. In 2000, the then DSV worked against the Constitution, against the law and against the purpose for which it was elected. We all know in 2001 when the composition of the DSV council was elected under the new law and by which we re-elected it has become one agreement that we do not turn around here safely now and it is already evident to vote, because it is not such a thing although the Rules of Procedure allows it but in that case, when there are more candidates where no consensus has been tried that clubs are just after the speech and advocated the profession of the candidate. So there was that, and this is one step back in that one good practice. Therefore, here is that I can not only mention one formality that is not respected until the end because the Supreme Court has proposed six candidates and has only one right since the candidate from the Supreme Court Group is already in office for him, it is the current President Milan Gudelje. Therefore, the Supreme Court was then entitled to only three proposals because one candidate is elected. So now we're here again, too, if we're going to stick to the strict letters of the law, we're going to find ourselves in a little disrepair with the law because every candidate can have three proposals. The SDP club proposes, or opinions, that we parliamentary representatives should first of all stick to the draft profession. However, if this will be so soon, we will see after the vote or the results of the vote has been announced. However, this is one public matter where candidates need to be discussed and voted publicly. Therefore, it is a matter of professional rather than political matters. So there's no reason for this vote to be secret. The SDP advocates that the equal opportunities of the Rules of Procedure vote be made public because we are not ashamed of our choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41943	Thank you very much. The amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council of 15 December 2000 and, under Article 2(2), the last relevant committee of the Justice Committee will propose to the Parliament of the Croatian Parliament any proposed candidates who meet the conditions for appointment. This is the relevant committee and proposed and according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, when there are more candidates under the clear provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be held in secret if there are more candidates. I'm closing the debate. We are now going to vote on a proposal for candidates to elect members of the State Judicial Council. We're going to a secret vote. A secret vote shall be held on ballots prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. The President shall also be assisted by a number of MPs and MPs in the secret vote, and we have already elected four MPs and MPs to assist in the secret vote. They are MP Milanka Opačić, representatives Josip Vresk, Nikola Vuljanić and Emil Tomljanović. MPs who help the president conduct a secret vote hand over to voters, so these four will hand over the ballots to voters. The ballot's handover is recorded on the parliamentary secretary's list, secretary of parliament, enter, circle, it will be all out in front of the assembly, rounding up the regular number. The vote on each ballot box is attended by one of the MPs to help the president. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. There are three boxes and three ballots. On one ballot are the names of candidates for the State Judicial Council from the ranks of judges, the second from the ranks of the Croatian Bar Association and the third from the ranks of the Faculty of Law. Six are elected from the judges, two from the lawyers and two from the law schools. A ballot rounding a regular number in front of the name of a larger number of candidates than the number being elected is considered invalid as if they were posted. When all MPs hand over ballots, then we will announce the election and which candidates have been elected or appointed. So, then I ask the MPs and the MPs to take over outside the assembly room, in front of the Secretary of Parliament's ballots, vote, throw in, and then come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41945	And here I hear now that we will still wait for the results of the election of the State Judiciary Council, so if it is near the end I ask that and as soon as possible here because I see the excitement of going to the resorts of Croatia. ... And if we can wait, then we'll [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then we will, I beg you, remain in our seats. [[Intruder: We must wait for the results to be announced.]] I hope that's very soon, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41946	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. Let me read now and declare the results of the vote. I declare that out of the 152 MPs, a ballot for the election of members of the State Judicial Council in the order of the judges was received by 106 deputies and voted on by 106 MPs. There are no wrong ballots. The candidates from the line of judges received the following votes: Ljuban Batinac, County Court in Bjelovar – 6, Vitomir Bojić, County Court in Velika Gorica – 1, Nediljko Boban, Criminal Court in Zagreb – 60, Katarina Buljan, Supreme Court in Rijeka – 11, Lucija Čimić, High Court of Commerce – 82, Ana Garačić, Supreme Court – 26, Drazen Jakovina, Municipal Court in Zagreb – 21, Dragan Katjan, County Court in Rijeka – 24, Senka Klarić Branović, Supreme Court of Republic – 7, Darko Clear, County Court in Varazdin – 27, Zdenko Konjic, County Court in Zagreb – 8, Antonija Kovačić, High Criminal Court of the Republic – 3, Marija Kriletić, Administrative Court of the Republic – 5, Ljiljana Lvažaljana Levaždin – 27, Zdnjan Šupanjski Šupanjski Sudić, Vrjan Županjski Šupanjić, Vrjanjski Švrić, 14, Vrjan Župan Šrjanjskijski Vrić, Vrjan Žalić, Vrjanjić, Vrjanjalić, Vrjanjaljanjaljanjić, Vrjanjić, Vrjanjskij. According to the number of this vote, I declare that for members of the State Judicial Council of the Judges: Lucija Čimić, Ivan Mikšić, Đuro Sesa, Nediljko Boban, Mirjana Rigljan and Miho Mratović. Secondly, I announce that out of a total of 152 MPs, ballots for the election of members of the State Judicial Council received 106 MPs and voted 106 MPs. There's one wrong ticket. The candidates received the following votes: Anton Etinger, lawyer in Rovinj – 30, Marin Mrklic, lawyer in Split – 2, Ranko Pelicarić, lawyer in Zagreb – 93, Vlado Sevšek, lawyer in Varazdin – 10, Arno Vicic, lawyer in Zagreb – 69 and Ratko Đurić, lawyer in Zagreb – 5. I declare that the members of the State Judicial Council have been elected by the lawyers: Ranko Pelicaric and Arno Vicic. I declare that out of the 152 MPs, a ballot for the election of members of the State Judicial Council in the order of the university professors of legal science received 106 MPs and voted 106 MPs. One ballot is invalid. The candidates received the following number of votes: Prof. Anita Kurtović, Faculty of Law in Split – 87, Prof. Zvonimir Lauc, Faculty of Law in Osijek – 7, Prof. Berislav Pavisic, Faculty of Law in Rijeka – 91, prof. Silvija Petrič, Faculty of Law in Split – 11, Prof. Zlatan Stipković, Faculty of Law in Zagreb - 7, Prof. Alan Zelec, Faculty of Law in Zagreb – 6. And I declare that for members of the State Judicial Council of the University of Legal Science Professors, the following are elected: Professor. Berilav Pavisic and Prof. Anita Kurtovic. Congratulations to the members of the State Judiciary Council on the election and I wish them success in their work. They need to take an oath before the President of the Parliament, we'll arrange it in a few days. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude this session. I want us all to get a nice and good rest, be fresh and orni for September for the first autumn session. Every good and pleasant vacation. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday afternoon, from the Government came the proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement for the project of research, restoration and revitalisation of cultural heritage, Ilock, Vukovar, Vukedol between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, which lends a loan to the Development Bank of the Council of Europe to Croatia a loan of 169 million kuna with a 15-year maturity of 15 years. So it's a cultural heritage project to explore the restoration of cultural heritage Ilock, Vukovar and Vukedol. I would like to suggest that we put it on the agenda and ask the Parliament to agree to put it on the agenda by emergency procedure and vote immediately when the time comes? Please, who's up for it? Thank you. Unanimously, I see it's adopted. Well, I'm opening up a debate on that loan bill right now. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41994	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, continue the session. I call on the President of the Croatian Parliament of Mr Vladimir Seks to address the representatives on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the military-related operation "Storm". Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41995	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This year will mark the 10th anniversary of the military-related Operation Storm, the key operation of the Homeland War. The Croatian Parliament's Declaration of Homeland War on 13 October 2000 found that the Republic of Croatia led a fair and legitimate, defensive and liberating rather than aggressive and conquerive war against anyone and in which it defended its territory against major Serb aggression within internationally recognised borders. The Declaration of the Homeland War "Storm" was identified as one of the most brilliant military-redarative operations of the Homeland War and a presumption of the later peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube and created assumptions for the coherent development of the Republic of Croatia as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern Western world. It meant legitimate, fair on the basis of international law military-related surgery. On the basis of the decisions of the United Nations Security Council Resolution, Resolution of the General Assembly of the Security Council Nos 815 847 and 981 which established the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. The military-redhartic operation "Storm" aimed at establishing constitutional legal order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia and returning to the wing of the occupied parts of Croatian state territory. "Storm" was not any organised, criminal, planned enterprise aimed at ethnic cleansing or any other crimes or violations of international law. It was based on international law and obligations and obligations of each country to return occupied parts of its territory under its constitutional law and integrity. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, this 10th anniversary of the military-related operation "Storm" means for us a reminder of the most brilliant grand action, a liberating action that has brought much of Croatia's state territory back under control, full control, judication and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. It also means showing respect for the victorious Croatian army, to all those who have passed their lives, who died in the action. She means to us to mark one... One permanent... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] all the victims who fell for Croatia's freedom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means a reminder and a permanent commitment of all members of the Croatian society and the state to take permanent care of and care for the truth, about the Homeland War, to provide permanent care for its best traditions and gains, to care for families of the dead, wounded, disabled, and the obligation to respect and cherish the nobleness and purity of the Homeland War and this military-related action "Storm". And that all that was negative, all that blacked out a truly grand operation to be found in the face of justice. We can't close our eyes before that. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the military-reding Operation Storm, couldn't because it came later, after the tragedy of Srebrenica, but it was still largely able to prevent a similar tragedy of huge proportions that was being prepared in the Biak Enclave. We express our gratitude to all those who have contributed to this action. We express our gratitude to the Supreme Commander and the first Croatian President, Dr Franji Tudjman. We express our gratitude to the many famous and unknown heroes, heroes, knights and first line and those who have been in the background, who have all contributed to getting rid of a large part of the occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia within the legal order. The Croatian State Summit was founded by the State Committee for the Marking of the 10th anniversary of the "Storm", led by three presidents of the State, Government and Parliament, the Presidency of the Assembly, a number of ministers, military commanders and 5 August in Knin, will be a magnificent marking of the 10th anniversary of the "Storm", several days earlier will be a scientific professional symposium where prominent public scientists, military theorists, military theorists will light up the military-reding action "Storms" from all major aspects and the solemn assembly of all the tribes of the Croatian Army with military honors, along with the war flags of war commanders, passing by, in Knin will be held and a final festival event with speeches and presidents of the Republic, the Government, the Croatian Parliament with the participation of all MPs who are invited to join this marking, by the great and the most important of their political operations, which have been recognized by the Croatians, and the most important of all of their political operations, who have been respected by the rightful, and the most of all of all of their time, and the time. These events should be marked, remembered, remembered but remembered and remembered in life through the proper study of all important historical facts, through teaching and school programmes not only by solemn academic marking but also by continuous teaching of younger generations, young generations that the Homeland War is based on Croatian statehood and Croatian sovereignty, that it was a righteous, liberating war, imposed a war in which Croatia, with severe sacrifices and severe consequences that will be remedied for decades to achieve its full territorial integrity and its integrity. We must remember our history so that again as she says, the saying would not experience similar tragedies. All victims have the right to a pitet, name, last name, burial. Justice should be the supreme principle of this reminder. It should be built into the foundations of our memory, the entire Croatian people and all Croatian citizens. Justice and truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-15-0.u41996	Ladies and gentlemen, let us pay tribute to the moment of silence of all the dead, defenders and civilian victims during the Homeland War and after the war, especially those who gave their lives in the military-raid operation of the Storm. - A moment of silence - May eternal praise and glory be to them. - Praise them! – Ladies and gentlemen, the last vote we voted today is on the election of the State Judicial Council and our colleagues who are under vote counting will inform the public of the results of these elections. I hereby conclude this summer session of the Croatian Parliament. We wish you a pleasant holiday and good health in order to start a successful session of the autumn part of the Croatian Parliament in the autumn. Let's all get a good rest.
