ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38032	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Polish Ombudsman is the Croatian version of the institution of the ombutsman whose roots, i.e. are still in the old century, the Roman popular tribunals, then in China censors and juanas, and later in the Middle Ages and Spanish institutions of secession, until the newer time of the Swedish suicide of the ombutsman, founded in 1809 to control the work of the state administration and judges on behalf of Parliament. However, only since the half of the last century has the institution received its present form since the first modern ombutsman founded in Denmark in 1955, so exactly 50 years ago, it spreads rapidly and today it exists almost in all European countries, and in more than 130 countries around the world. The expansion of the circle of the countries that have introduced the Ombudsmans has followed the recent years and strengthened their role in legal systems, and thus the material and personnel strengthening of their offices that become respectable institutions with high professional and moral authority. The institution of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia was established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 90th year, the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Croatia of the Republic of Croatia of 92th, the Law on the Public Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, appointed by the Assembly, reports submitted to the Croatian Assembly, then national, because its work covers both the state and local administration, as a general difference between special lawyers for children and gender equality and... with three deputies who elect the Croatian Assembly on his proposal. In addition to the central and regional public administration of the department of the Ombudsman, it shall also cover all bodies with public authority in the area in which those bodies, on the basis of public authority, resolve in administrative matters. First of all, with regard to complaints from citizens, and then on its own initiative, the Ombudsman examines individual cases of endangerment committed to them by the authorities of the public administration, bodies with public authority or employees in those bodies and bodies when carrying out their tasks. By assessing the procedures and actions of those bodies and bodies, the Ombudsman shall not be authorised to give binding orders or to withdraw or repeal acts, his powers shall be to give notices, proposals, warnings and recommendations, and the bodies to which they are assigned shall be manifested. When those bodies do not comply with the proposals, warnings and recommendations, the Ombudsman may inform the Croatian Parliament and the public about this through regular annual reports, either through specific address directly or through the Parliamentary Committees. Therefore, this is about an additional, flexible and less formal but simpler and cheaper protection that in not a small number of cases can free citizens of a painful and long-term formal procedure or allow them to exercise their rights more quickly and fully. It is particularly important that interventions by the Ombudsman are not limited to the assessment of the legality of the work of the administration in a narrow sense, but to respect the principles and requirements of good and citizens of friendly administrative practice, often from the point of view of the principle of justice and morality. Through this kind of protection, the Ombudsman acts in two directions, warns of possible threats and violations of rights and helps them through the relations of citizens and administrations but also contributes to democratic control of the administration, thereby improving and improving it. In this respect, the work and action of the Ombudsman is largely determined by complaints of citizens on the conduct or conduct of administrative bodies and slightly less on the illegality and irregularity of their decisions and acts. Given that the report is quite large and contains a lot of statistical and other data on complaints and work on complaints as well as evaluations of the results achieved, I will not repeat in this opening statement, I will only indicate a number of key indicators in this regard. In 2004, there were 2710 items of which new 2011 written complaints. The office was personally joined by 1067 citizens, and the phone office addresses 20 to 25 citizens per day. In all, about 6 to 7 thousand citizens each year address the Ombudsman. The relatively large number of complaints relate to the long-term nature of the proceedings and not to the adoption of a solution in the legal or at least reasonable time limits. The length of the procedure is most often in areas and issues that are directly or indirectly linked to the consequences of the former state's war events and collapse. The structure of the complaint is dominated by the rights of pension and disability insurance, then property, return of property and housing rights, rights from reconstruction and other rights of victims and defenders of the Homeland War and slightly less status rights, so citizenship, foreigners, construction, urbanism, environmental protection, police, personal security and others. The length of the procedure in some of these areas is conditioned by objective circumstances, such as a major increase in the inflow of cases over a short period of time resulting in the application of new regulations, or as a result of the start of application of new regulations or programmes, but due to limited material and financial resources, which all affects the resolution of established and justified requirements of citizens in matters of pension disability insurance, return of property, reconstruction and housing. However, it should be said that, as a rule, it is not a matter of circumstances which could not have been foreseen and in time to take the necessary measures. In this regard, it is known that parliamentary committees have already called on and called on both the ministries and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to take appropriate organisational, staff and other measures, and to carry out a breakdown of the causes of unscheduled work. It is obvious that all these measures have not led to significant improvement, this statistics and the report shows and therefore it is necessary again to warn that, with regard to its important function of resolving administrative matters, this means the rights and rights of its citizens, the state administration is still quite abandoned and measures are needed to improve the situation. This time I will repeat just some of the measures I hope with enough arguments suggested in the report. To implement a permanent system of monitoring and evaluation and resolution in administrative procedure in administrative areas and for state administration as a whole. In this respect, it is necessary to strengthen and train the Central Administration Office and to establish the obligation to report regularly to the Government and the Croatian Parliament, the Assembly Committees. It is very important that the Central Administration Office intervenes when indicated, so not only at the end of the year but during resolution. When preparing and adopting regulations, it is mandatory to include and foresee the consequences of resolving administrative matters, including the possible regulation of specific deadlines whenever necessary. In fact, we know that a general legal deadline is in force, from the General Administrative Procedure Act and that there are areas, I will not mention denationalisation and some others in which it is quite clear and obvious that this deadline cannot be respected. When preparing the rules, the Parliament may also make sure that specific deadlines are introduced in certain areas. It is also necessary in these situations to provide material conditions in those departments and services where a large inflow of cases is expected in a short period of time, and then to strengthen the departments in central state bodies that resolve in complaints, and what is very important to commit them and train them to solve the case in a metric whenever possible, it is known that our administration authorities, and unfortunately and the administrative court very often approach the abolition of the solution, and even if they could solve the administrative matter themselves, return the cases to a retrial and in one round, two or three times, the citizens of two, three years cannot reach their rights. And it is very important to respect the obligation of the administrative authorities to always report to the public and the parties in an appropriate manner in case they cannot meet the legal deadlines. What I think is important is that these measures can be implemented quickly, parallelly and relatively independently of other necessary changes and reforms in the administration, and unfortunately very often we go into changes to legislation as if this is the only solution to improve work, but it seems to me that once a time it is good and analyze the situation and take less significant but very useful measures. In addition to all those measures, it would be necessary to continue in certain areas of decentralisation and transfer of administrative services, of course, and the resources and resolution of administrative matters to the local level, closer to citizens and to day-to-day control through local authorities, which shows that this experience could lead to a more up-to-date and quality administrative solution. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! In addition to the long-term long-term administrative procedure, citizens complain in large numbers about the length of court proceedings and the way the courts work, although, unlike for example, Denmark, in which the law explicitly prohibits the ombudsman's treatment of courts in Croatia, there are no such explicit prohibitions, there is no doubt that the courts are excluded from the ombudsman's section. However, the citizens do not know or want to know because the number of complaints brought against the courts addressed to the Ombudsman for years is not reduced. About 12 to 15% of all written complaints refer to courts while the number of such orals was coming to the office, there were phone calls and up to 40%. This points to longevity as well as the biggest problem of the Croatian judiciary, as well as the general belief of citizens that within the existing system involving courts, the presidents of courts, the State Judiciary Council and the Ministry of Justice cannot solve their problems of long-term proceedings or obtain the right answers to their complaints. Both the latest data on the number of pending cases and on the long-term duration of the proceedings show that all measures from changes in the legal framework to controls within the system itself do not produce adequate results. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia did not contribute to the improvement of the constitutional law, which was the burden of resolving the issue of the length of court proceedings being transferred exclusively to the Constitutional Court, so that the problem of pro futuro is not resolved at all and the Constitutional Court unnecessarily burdens itself with a large number of cases of which the highest number would be more effective in dealing with in a timely manner. The expectations that the judiciary will function well if the supervision and control of the work of judges and courts is established mainly or exclusively within the system itself did not prove justified. In the Croatian judicial body, there is not enough ability and strength for the necessary changes and often the Czech interests are stronger than the social ones. Therefore, even the overall state within the system is not assessed sufficiently critical and without it there is no pressure to change the situation. On the other hand, at least until now, the Ministry of Justice has not been prepared to take the necessary control, possibly fearing and objecting to endangering the independence of the judiciary and establishing the authority of the executive authority over the court. Faced with similar problems, many European and non-European states have entrusted parliamentary ombudsmen and protection of citizens' rights when they are threatened or injured by the work of judges and courts. Authorities are different in some countries, so they don't always include all kinds of courts. What is mostly common is the right of the Ombudsman to intervene because of the longevity of proceedings or obvious abuses in the process. In these cases, the usual powers of the Ombudsman are the right of insight into court records, powers, warnings, proposals and recommendations both to courts and state bodies which adopt regulations and measures in this respect but also to propose strict and other proceedings. In view of all of the above, I expressed my view that it would be necessary to take good and serious consideration of the need and possibility of participating as an independent and independent institution in some forms of control of the work of the courts and that it would be good to study the good and bad experiences of others in this regard. For the time being, that position has not come upon a good reception of the Association of Judges, though, according to my assessment without valid arguments. This depravity and absence of effective control mechanisms and in administrative resolution and in the handling of courts result in quite a mess in which, unfortunately, a large number of cases make it impossible for citizens to predict when their affairs will be resolved or even when they will be taken into work without talking about some order of the championship in solving public and known criteria. Such a state of nature affects the most those less protected powers and money because it favours the bias and corruption of all kinds from friendly services to well-paid abuses. Although, as a consequence of war and related political events, there are still a wide variety of divisions in society, it seems to be created or created, and a new division will soon prevail if not all others and this is a division of poor and weak, rich and powerful, a division that has already been announced in one speech as a division of the written and chosen ones. And while the divisions of the rich and the poor will always be divided into weak and powerful in front of the state administration and the courts are inadmissible and devastating for social morality and cohesion. It is therefore urgent to introduce order and legal equality in administrative and judicial resolution, including free legal aid and other aid to weaker and ignorant people, but above all, clear criteria, predictability and certainty in terms of time limits and procedures. It is not least important to point out that today, among the vast majority of those weak and poor, there are not only those who could not succeed in any society but also a large number of successful, well-deserved and honest people who have lost both work and dignity in the fogs of Croatian conversion and transition and, given the age of life, have no chance of a new start. It is the obligation of the state to arrange for the judiciary to function equally and not to be chosen and written off before them. The strict respect for material and procedural regulations and the control of the work of administrative officers and judges must prevent their often arbitrational conduct, which is usually in favour of a stronger one. And when I am with the weak and the poor or written off, it is my duty that as the authority of this House whose office is addressed annually to several thousand citizens to warn the representatives and what is not in the report because it is not formal legal proceedings but is the daily one of the civil defenders, his deputies and employees in the office. We're talking to a large number of people who are asking for help and at least a place where they'll be heard. They say they have no one else to talk to. Unemployed without an apartment or a chance to reach the apartment, impoverished and tormented by long-standing disputes and driven by justice but also by a sense of helplessness and injustice without much hope that their condition will improve. Workers who do not receive salaries also come and they are who have lost their jobs many in conversions in Croatian way. Although the most older ones have a lot of young ones. Many of them are educated, and they don't know why they can't get their chance. The common feelings of all are injustice and the absence of faith that their condition will quickly change. Almost without exception, they point to illegality and corruption as the causes of all their troubles, asking the state to take more account of them, convinced that budget money is still being spent irrationally, that there is unnecessary waste and luxury, inappropriate social opportunities, and that social giving needs to be distributed more evenly. Although I am aware that citizens who address the occupier are not in general a representative sample of their numbers and even the structure is concerned. It is my duty to warn myself that there must be room for these people too in all future projects and programmes. Finally, I remind myself that I was in my opening address to the Parliament when I was chosen to mention that I would remind the Assembly of the great problems of small people, so I am doing it this time. In my part of the report, I particularly stressed the issue of the return of property, reconstruction and housing as issues without whose effective resolution of parts of the Croatian Serb returnees cannot achieve fundamental rights and no initial assumptions for normal life in the Republic of Croatia. By passing laws and other regulations as well as government programmes, the Republic of Croatia has expressed its readiness for their full integration into Croatian society. However, the report has more detailedly analysed obstacles and shortcomings, many returnees with great difficulty achieve a return and full implementation of the rights guaranteed by the law and mentioned programmes. The initial good atmosphere with the support of most of the opposition was provided by the Croatian government with public and clear views but also supported by a responsible and pragmatic policy of the Serb minority leadership. It is important to continue to complete the programmes of return and renewal and to establish full normalisation of relations in particular in areas of special state concern. Obstacles and resistances, which unfortunately still exist in state administration bodies and local environments, need to be removed. It seems that some officials, officials find it difficult to accept and understand that there is no place for political arbitration in these issues and that it is legal issues regulated by Croatian regulations and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also of the Croatian national interest to ensure equality before the law for all citizens. I would like to point out in particular the question of the housing programme of former tenants. The programme has not yet entered a full implementation phase as only the first priority group is still being resolved. Ensuring accommodation for temporary users, without which the return process cannot be completed. In order not to question the deadlines and thus the programme as a whole should ensure the conditions to start resolving the housing issue of the most urgent cases. All of this should contribute to normalising relations and removing obstacles to the integration of returnees into Croatian society. But that's not enough either. For them to be fully involved and without which there is no stable and European Croatia, it is necessary to be more consistent than so far to ensure and achieve important minority rights, especially representation in representative bodies, in accordance with the law relevant to representation in the judiciary, administration and public services, equality in employment and social opportunities. Not only must law enforcement in these matters be a matter of goodwill, and such failures and behaviours should be sanctioned and sanctioned legally. In particular, it is necessary to sanction not so rare the appearance of hate speech and national intolerance and to completely disable them in public, political discourse. And in the end, but not least. I concluded the report with a proposal to staff and materially strengthen the institution of the occupier. Taking into account the possibilities, I proposed a programme which, starting from this year's rebalancing to the 2006 and 2007 budget, would create normal conditions for the office's work so that the 2008 office would have a total of 32 employees, as provided for by the Law on the Internal Order of the Ombudsman as early as 2002. For comparison, I'd like to suggest that he arranges... In the smallest European countries today, they have twice as many employees as the Croatian office, while most offices in more developed countries range from 50 and even up to 150 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, I note that the amendments to the Constitution in 2000 gave the Ombudsman new powers and responsibilities that require special experts as well as different methods of working from the former ones. In this regard, it is necessary to supplement the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of 92, which has not been amended after the amendment of the Constitution. In particular, it is necessary to regulate more closely the powers of the Ombudsman in relation to the security services and the Armed Forces and the protection of local self-government in relation to the authorities of the state administration. In this regard, I remind myself of the multiannual conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and of the Committee, which are unfortunately not realised either in terms of amending the law or in terms of human and material reinforcement, or in terms of the appropriate space for the work of the office. I also remind myself of the fact that strengthening the institution is also envisaged by a national programme of protection and promotion of human rights and is recommended without exception in all findings, reports from international institutions, experts addressed to the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that the Croatian Parliament's will is manifested by the election of a new Ombudsman by consensus to strengthen and empower the institution for the real role of its parliamentary supervisor. I therefore expect not only support but also concrete decisions on realisation and older conclusions and new proposals in this section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38033	I thank the Attorney General. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, Committee on Immigration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38034	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the 16th session held on 24 May this year, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman for 2004 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Polish Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 15 April this year. The Committee considered that report as an interested working body. In the debate, the committee members looked back at the following legal areas. Infringement and endangerment of status rights, property and housing rights, property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, pension and health insurance rights, refugees and exiles, rights of political prisoners. The lack of regulation and application of the law on the basis of... Rules and instructions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is evident from the response of the Ministry of the Interior to the Ombudsman since 30 December 2002, in which the Ministry of Interior refers to the rule under which the emigrants refer to persons who have moved out of Croatia in order to live abroad all the time and determines that it is the rule about so-called. economic emigration between the two world wars means from the special parts of the Republic of Croatia. By means of such reasoning, the MUP refuses to apply Article 11. Law on citizenship on requests for admission to Croatian citizenship of Croats evicted to Macedonia, Montenegro, Bulgaria and other countries. In further discussion, there was also a special talk on the rights of political prisoners, many have already died and have not been compensated. It is proposed that the Committee on Immigrants propose amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Political Employees. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38035	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Justice Committee, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Rade Ivas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38036	Mr. Vice President, civil defenders, colleagues and colleagues. The Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman for 2004 at the 26th session held on 24 May 2005. The Committee considered the report in question as an interested working body in the section relating to the work of the judicial authorities and the implementation of the laws which are within the competence of this Committee. Introductoryly, the Ombudsman pointed out that the report shows that the number of cases that citizens complain about the work of courts is growing. The Attorney General's Office received 294 complaints in 2004. Citizens tend to complain about the longevity of court proceedings and the irregularity in the work of courts. In particular, the report highlights relations, areas and phenomena that deserve the attention of all national local authorities with concrete proposals. In particular, the need to introduce an effective system of monitoring and evaluation of solutions in administrative matters, to achieve the efficiency of work in central authorities by appeal, the obligation of the central state administration office to report regularly to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the discussion, the members of the Committee assessed that the report on the work of the Ombudsman was well-designed, that the use of the methodology and the indication of concrete examples clearly points to the problem faced by the Ombudsman as the author of the Croatian Parliament with the task of protecting the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the process of bodies with public powers. The report highlights issues, certain areas with proposals for measures, which significantly distinguishes it from earlier reports by the attorney general. In the section of the report concerning complaints from citizens, on the work of the courts, the Committee is aware of the fact that there is an increase in the number of cases which citizens complain about the work of the courts, whether due to the length of proceedings or irregularities in the work of the courts. The Board is also aware of the fact that the Ombudsman is not authorised to influence the work of the courts because the Committee itself receives representations similar to or the same content and does not have the power to control the judiciary or in part of the long-term conduct of the proceedings but is used by giving the case to the competent ministry or by sending a rush to the courts. It is this, this disabling influence on the work of the courts that leads to public dissatisfaction and mistrust in the legal system. Taking into account the constitutional provision of the three-division, the members of the Committee agree that no form of control is carried out by the judicial authority. Therefore, any attempt to warn the ineffectiveness of the work of the courts may be considered to be a breach of guaranteed independence and independence of the courts. The imagined form of control and control of the work of courts exclusively within the judicial system has not proved effective. Furthermore, the choice of courts itself, the decision on the strict responsibility of courts, is also exclusively within the system. It is proposed that, in the right to improve the existing situation and achieve the efficiency of the work of the courts, one session of the Committee shall be devoted to the functioning of the judicial authority with a emphasis on the rule of law's attitude towards the court in order to respond to proposals by the Ombudsman and the public's demands in order to improve the effectiveness of the judicial authority. The Committee endorses the opinion, agrees with the opinion of the Ombudsman in part of the report, which discusses shortcomings in the work of state authorities, administrations and bodies with public authority and supports the proposed measures. Since the most citizens' rights are achieved precisely in administrative procedures, it is an assessment of the Committee members that a debate is necessary in the Croatian Parliament and the Government on the resolution of administrative procedures and the regular reporting of the Croatian Parliament on the work of the central state administration office. The members of the Committee supported the proposal of the Public Defence Tribunal towards the staffing of the material strengthening of the Office of the Ombudsman in order to ensure, in due course, human and material conditions for the exercise of constitutional powers of the Ombudsman. It has been estimated inadmissible that the work of a civil defender on the ground is financed by the funds of international donors. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the following conclusions: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 and the second is adopted, it is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia consider the opinions, objections and proposals given in the debate on the report as well as the proposals and recommendations of the Ombudsman contained in the report to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38037	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Committee on War Veterans, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38038	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed civil defenders, sir, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 13th session, held on 18 May 2005, discussed a report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman for 2004 which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 15 April 2005. The Committee discussed the report in the section in which it deals with complaints from defenders and victims of the Homeland War. During last year, according to the Ombudsman, the decline of newly admitted cases was recorded by 16%. 2 thousand and 11 versus 2 thousand and 389 in 2003. And the total number of cases solved that were working in 2004 is 1329 or 49%. The reason for the reduction in new cases is the fact that the smaller number of counties visited in 2004 i.e. 5 counties were visited in 2004 and in 2003. 10 and the fact that countys with lower military intensity have been visited, which is one of the basic reasons for complaints against citizens. The number of complaints by Croatian defenders and victims from the Homeland War compared to 2003 has been reduced by 26% from 371 to 275 complaints. The main reason for the conversion is the long-term conduct of the administrative procedure and the Office intervened with the competent ministry in rushing the proceedings. In a brief discussion, it was noted that the status problems of Croatian defenders were largely solved and no increase in cases with such problems is expected in the coming years. The members of the Committee supported the measures proposed by the Advocate General to speed up the resolution of administrative procedures. And these are: the introduction of an effective system of monitoring and evaluation of solutions in administrative matters both in the areas and for the state administration as a whole. Enhancing services which handle complaints, ensuring material and personnel conditions in those first-degree bodies which have a major inflow of cases in a short period of time and prescribing specific time limits for resolution when necessary in certain administrative areas. It has also been observed, although most of it is not subject to the reporting period, to the problem of providing funds for resolution, to translate the right to the current Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families because the parties are given solutions by reason that payment will follow the provision of funds for this purpose in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and is mainly about pension, disability rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: The report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 is accepted under 1. Under 2., the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide the necessary financial resources for the staff, material and spatial strengthening of the Office of the Ombudsman as proposed in the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38039	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38040	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. And where else but in the Croatian Parliament to discuss issues and issues on the agenda? It is simply how human rights are exercised in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the human rights of the institution of the attorney general, here are some information for the introduction. In 2004, the Ombudsman launched 1120 examinations in the state government and failed to respond to his request 227 times by the state administration. This means that the number of 1120 in the "N" position has increased the number of dissatisfied citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the exercise of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. If we start from the evaluation of the Ombudsman of the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, and I will quote this once again: "Demandment and absence of effective control mechanisms in administrative resolution therefore in the resolution of the state, in the handling of courts, there are riots in which in a large number of cases" I add "I can't predict when their matter will be resolved or even when they will be taken into work without the order of the championship in solving public-known criteria. Such a situation in the nature of things most affects those weaker and unprotected, unprotected powers, money or politics I add. This favors the presence of corruption of all kinds in the state administration. In a situation like this, stronger, more powerful, without rules and impartial judges win even when they're wrong. Next, the attorney general continues. And while the division of the rich and the poor will always be, the division of the weak and powerful in front of the state administration and the courts is inadmissible, devastating for social morality and social cohesion. I add this division in Croatian society is finished or close. This process has been caused by numerous differences, and in our opinion today's situation is covered by the differences of conversion and privatisation in Croatian way by bribery and corruption again in Croatian way, crime, unclear state policy, inefficient state administration, very little social sensitivity of the government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, when we look at the laws and declarations, it is the obligation of the State to regulate the state administration and the judiciary in a way that functions equally and legally and not to be chosen or written down before them. It's again a quote from the report itself. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the evaluations of the Ombudsman are of increased weight for us if it is known that the Ombudsman is the author of the Croatian Parliament, and our task is to protect the Ombudsman, but at the same time constitutional and legal, human rights of our citizens in front of our country, before our authority, against bodies that have public authority. For the time being, the attorney general states that he cannot act in court. However, its initiative and the assessment that the system itself does not solve the problems we have seen for many years, gives this initiative in fact a serious consideration in this House, especially if we can remember our assessments that the solution to the problem of ineffectiveness but not only ineffective justice and court cannot be solved by a very well-designed technical and technological modernisation of courts and judiciary. Of course, the Ombudsman is an institution in a Croatian society which, as Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament, has the right and the right and obligation to ask the Government and the Croatian Parliament for a programme of measures that will allow, within a very short period of time, public administrations, especially when it comes to solutions issued on the basis of the records, to obtain those solutions within the deadline provided for by law, within 30 days. Such a situation is generally not in the Croatian state administration. When it comes to the programme of measures proposed by the Ombudsman, I think it is not enough for this report to end with being accepted. It is worrying to look at the statistics that the Ombudsman informs us about the state of the case in certain activities. It should be said that only in the area of helping citizens to exercise their pension system rights this year led 563 cases. 563 cases, if added, that a single item is not resolved within three years. Imagine the situation in the Republic of Croatia when pension requirements are resolved within three years. This should also be added to the non-resolvement of the status or problems of whole groups such as the Roma problem, as also pointed out by the Ombudsman here. From a report that is actually very illustrating and indicative, we could set examples for example and believe that in this situation we would create the wrong picture if we did so, simply because the report by the Ombudsman is not an accurate insight into the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. It is a view from the negative side of the human rights exercise in the Republic of Croatia, simply because it is the task of the attorney general when the right to intervene is not exercised. But we can't sneak in. The data and examples mentioned in the report oblige this House to accept this report with exact deadlines from when it will request, until when the Government will have to propose a programme of measures to change, an urgent change of this state of administration. When it comes to the judiciary, it may be a proposal by the attorney general not to go outside the justice system for some non-judgment inspection, not a trial that must remain autonomous to any judge, but the work and efficiency of work may have both a head and a tail, but then the Law on the Ombudsman, perhaps even constitutional provisions, should be amended. All in all, our view is that it is truly illustrating and indicative and talking about the causes, about the decline of citizens' confidence in government in the Republic of Croatia in general and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Trust is not obtained by declarative performances, promises, or good stories. It is necessary to take and propose concrete solutions, to assign concrete institutions, to set deadlines and terms, and this Assembly to oversee the work of the state administration, which is one of the tasks and functions of this Assembly, should say in the next report that we have taken a step towards a better, fairer, fairer and more efficient state administration and that we have then carried out one of our functions. At the end of what do you say? You can't not accept the report, but you can't even reconcile with the report. As a result, the SDP Club expects that, in addition to its conclusion, the report will be proposed a programme of measures and activities that will improve human rights in the Republic of Croatia by next year, especially in front of state administration bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38041	Thank you very much. It's on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38042	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. I actually have this report by the attorney general or perhaps better to tell the people's lawyer, because it is actually in the full and legal sense of that word, I also understand as part of the story about us representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Parliament as such. And that is because he is our representative, our commissioner in matters of the functioning of the state administration, in matters of the functioning of the government institutions and as we have heard, it is indirect in matters of the functioning of the judicial authority, in which we are actually sitting and what we are sitting in these benches. We sit in these benches because we represent the sovereign will of the people who chose us, the Croatian people who chose us. And he chose us in faith that right here and this House can best represent this sovereign will in two things. In real life and in good life. As things stand now, we unfortunately don't do our job. If by any chance there was a declaration here on the agenda that this House adopted over the past months and years quite a few years, here would be a lot of discussion by MPs and rather engaged words and discussions. Today, unfortunately, there is no interest and that energy here. Which just shows to what extent we actually appreciate what our basic job is. And that is to ensure, on the basic sovereign will of the people who choose us, what makes us choose, the right and the right life. Right in terms of good authority that will work both in the interests of the people and in a good life that will be able to be shaped under the leadership of that authority. Unfortunately for us, we do not consider these questions and keep our priorities. Because if we were to hold that, then the Attorney General wouldn't be in a position to beg for money, to ask for money for his basic activity, and to get that money easier than international organisations who are here not confirming our sovereignty, but to confirm some kind of presence of the International Community or share in its sovereignty, but to get it from our government and our country. I'm not going to say anything bad about those who help out the attorney general and his office. But I'd just like to make that fact clear and presentable to us and to our public. In other words, as long as that is the case, we will consider the problem of human rights, freedom, the functioning of our institutions, any administrative, any executive, any fates primarily an external-political issue and only then, possibly, an internal-political issue. I think it's time to break up with that fact and that kind of political understanding at least in this House. We had a civil defender in the past term who had introduced a new political philosophy in terms of citizenship and the removal of those consequences that could not be seen or those, those atmospheres where citizenship could not be seen and in which the principle of government could not be seen as the governments of civil, civil and human rights could not be seen. Today, we have a civil defender who directs us in his report to the issue of the functioning of the institutions of government, state. And in the end line that of course points to how we function here ourselves. If it's really not possible that our government, although individual parliamentary committees have been looking for it for the past year, have repeated it in this year, raises the amount of funds for the work of the Office of the Police Attorney, then colleagues and colleagues I think we have nothing left to do but say, as a gesture of protest or goodwill, that we will separate the amount from our salary so that this office can at least symbolically get some kind of support. Anyway, we're out in public like the ones who don't actually do anything and we get big wages. Therefore, if indeed the Government for this segment of action not only of the Parliament but of the activities of an important institution in our democracy, it is not able to separate the necessary funds so that the Ombudsman can travel to Croatia, so that he can send his teams and help local communities overcome their difficulties, help the representatives of the authorities to behave in accordance with the principle of good administration. Then there's really nothing left for us but to say, okay gentlemen, if you're not able to finance it here we'll take part of it because it's more natural and better for us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament to single out 500 or 1,000 kuna, than for us to have a situation like we have. And that's that people from different international organizations present here help us make this office work as politely as possible. The other thing I'd like to say is the subject opened in his report by a public defender. In this report, unlike earlier reports, it is a question of the functioning of the judicial authority. Which was discussed on the Committee, which I belong to myself, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in one constructive, in one productive way. I also hear on the Justice Committee, according to a report submitted by my colleague Ivas, which is simply about the following. The occupier warns of a fact based on what he has as complaints and as representations of citizens, and that a good part of the difficulty stems from the failure of the courts, either because of the long deadlines, or because of some other reasons. I think if the MPs in this Parliament rightly in the Croatian public have stopped being "holy cows" that no one can touch or point to difficulties, weaknesses, anything else. If politicians in general stopped being "holy cows" that must be covered by any nation, any institution, anything else. Then I think the time has also come, and this report suggests that it is time that those who cover themselves with the independence of the judiciary and make themselves "holy cows" to stop being and to really be in the function of what is called the Institute of Independent Judiciary, which means that they work in the function of citizens, not in the function of seizing, of stalling, and I don't know what not everything else. And in that sense, I don't think this House is questioning the trinity of power. It is simply necessary to enable its authorised authorised representative, the Office of the Public Attorney and the Ombudsman to express his opinion and his assessment and his findings on what he considers to be weaknesses in certain cases or in groups of cases or in phenomena when it comes to judicial authority. We will likely have on the agenda next week a question from the President of the Supreme Court, which, in fact, belongs to both the President and the Supreme Court, is a good part of the issue of how the courts function and how the judicial authority works. In the debate we had a few months ago about the Supreme Court, we realized that the Institute of Independence of the judiciary was desirable, welcome and welcomed him, but he did not bring results because indeed some of them hid behind it. They hid their incompetence, hid their incompetence and hid their attachment to something third, not to the independent judiciary institute and, of course, the rule of law and the rule of law, and that's what needs to be said. That's what the MPs of this House have to say not because they get criticism and why they're guilty and why they're not guilty because that's how it's always going to be, but because they have a certain responsibility and that responsibility as well as the one who's the legislator, the one who makes it possible for the laws to come into force, can't stop with the act of voting, and that's why we have the attorney general, so we can say that there really is a thing in the law enforcement, that the thing really stands with the functioning of legality, and if it's necessary and necessary to say that this legality should work better, then we empower him, let's give him that power to say it. Of course, when I say let's give him that strength so he can say it, I mean, first of all, to the Institute of Public Statement. The Attorney General should have the opportunity for him and his office to publicly say what they consider important, what they consider important, what they consider to be an important message that the public should be informed about, and in this sense this Assembly should, I can only plead that we allow the Ombudsman to open up space to be one of the strong components of public talk about how the matter really works in terms of government, how the matter really works in terms of administration and how the matter really works in terms of legislation. We can hardly imagine the situation in which the competent authorities and even parliaments as can be read in the case of the Ombudsman of the European Union, that parliament apologizes to citizens of any Brussels, whether Paris, or London because of the fact that they did not receive notice in time of how some employment competition ended. In other words, that kind of sense of responsibility of the institutions, the state, the courts by which they will know that not only does business but at the same time an apology for unfinished work is an integral part of it, as is of course our obligation that in cases where we have not done what we should do to face it and to say we have made a mistake. But as we are establishing some kind of mechanism, unfortunately still insufficiently effective, so at the same time we need to establish the possibility of mechanisms and controls of those who, unfortunately by this point, have no sense of being controlled, controlled by anyone, and that those most concerned, citizens can in any way influence whether they will work better or not, whether they will work more or not, whether they will work more justly or not. The occupier is certainly not the only one who can change that, but with us MPs in the Assembly he and the others, of course, he is undoubtedly one of the basic mechanisms that can contribute to this. I will not talk so much about the specific issues of this report, in my opening statement it was so I told the Ombudsman that he did not leave room for any particular... no separate interest in this regard. At this point, I think we're dealing with a report that only opens space for two things or two requests from this House. One is to allow it to have as many better assumptions as possible for work, the other is to enable it not to extend its powers but rather to comment on the basis of existing powers what it believes in the judicial authority in a poor state and the third, of course, that, together with it, we are fighting for a bigger space in public debate, in public discussion, in public opinion on what is the field of its work, to be held in the right sense by the public agency, or the national lawyer. Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38043	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38044	The gentleman who spoke as usual in his theatricalally emotional demagogue speech said several misinformations and untruths. He said MPs should single out 500 to 1000,00 kuna for the work of the occupier. I will not speak of the demagogy and the untrueness of this, but I can warn the gentleman that this is impossible under the Law on State officials and the Law on Parliamentary Representatives. Obviously, the gentleman on that side is uninformed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38045	Thank you. Please don't comment on who's coming from this pay phone, I don't think that's right. The HNS Club of PGS is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38046	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe I've checked very well, and I'm sure we haven't received the government's opinion on this report. I didn't find him until half an hour ago, although the government gave its opinion on all these reports that have been on the agenda so far, which is truly surprising, I don't want to believe that the government believes that a report by the Ombudsman is not worthy of the government's position or that they are not obliged to report what they think about what is being found as statistics, but especially that last dozen papers that are in the title of a proposal by the Ombudsman in order to eliminate the cause of the problem that it warns us about. So because the government has not given its opinion in writing I will assume or act as if the government has said that it accepts this report. With this I suppose they also accepted all the proposals that in this document the Ombudsman gave us as our Commissioner for the Protection of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia, which points to something that is improved or good and to what is not good. With the election of the Ombudsman, we sent him and said on behalf of Parliament, please protect human rights in this country and help citizens to exercise their rights in a easier way. They did it, they came with a report ahead of us and let's just take a couple of data or a finding into consideration. During last year, there were 2 thousand 11 new cases and 699 transferred from earlier periods, which means that in the last year there were 2 thousand 710 cases of which a thousand 326, about 50% were solved. The fact that 50% of the cases have been resolved suggests that the occupier also has huge problems in the fact that bodies with public authority or public authorities are simply not responding. They do not cooperate to address problems or solve individual cases. It is also noted that the number of newly admitted cases in the past compared to 2003 is somewhat lower. Which is probably partly the consequence that in the meantime we chose and formed the Office of the Ombudsman for Children and Gender Equality, that part of the case that had been with the attorney general had now ended there. It may be one of the reasons for a small number of cases and the fact that even citizens have seen that in a large number of cases, and especially when problems relate to the judiciary, the Ombudsman has no jurisdiction. And perhaps in some parts, the sectors of the former problems have indeed been improved by the work of the state services, institutions, bodies with public authority and there have been fewer problems. Second, what was found in this report that the field work of the Ombudsman, therefore, the visit to the field both last and last year, proved to be extremely useful for the citizens and for the Office of the Public Attorney, that such practice should continue. Because especially that part of the population that does not have material resources is difficult to come to Zagreb to get advice, information, or a solution to the problem. But it is also noted that the visit or the field work of the Ombudsman's Office was possible thanks to the donation of Norway and the OSCE. I want to believe because of what the report later says that Norway and the OSCE will continue to finance or partially finance the Office of the Ombudsman when already in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Government and the Parliament did not provide enough funding. So, here it is proposed that such a way of working continue and I want to believe that the Government's amendments to the budget for this year will satisfy the requirement if I have calculated well for somewhere around 670,000 kuna necessarily necessary funds in this financial year. The number of cases per area is firstly 536 cases that the Ombudsman had in the area of pension insurance. 536 or it's 40% of all your cases. In 2003, in the structure of the number of cases, new ones arrived from the retirement area were 16%, 28% last year. So almost every third case that came to the Ombudsman last year referred to the area of pension insurance. Remember the debate on the Report of the Pension Insurance Fund when we pointed out that, according to their report, there are a huge number of complaints which are being resolved in the first and second stages of the procedure. That the deadlines for resolving complaints are shamelessly long and that no one, nor that report of the Peace Fund from the Government, reacted and raised the question of responsibility to anyone in that system or body with public authority. And what does this one of those 536 cases in the retirement area look like? On December 17, 1999, one person filed a complaint with the pension service. December 17, 99. On 12.8.2003, the Attorney General is asking for an indication of the Peace Fund on the case, not getting an answer. Repeated request 17.11.2003, does not receive an answer. The request reiterated on 26 January 2003, the complaint was submitted in 99 that last February, the Ombudsman had been informed that the pension service decision of 9 January 2004 had been granted the right of the complainant to retire from 1.7.99. So from December 99th to February 2004, it was necessary for the pension service to solve the case, be careful, and to answer to the occupier's staff that the case was resolved. It is the 536 life stories of Croatian citizens who have passed a picture of this kind. Perhaps in the Government this report no one has read, so these same people will remain in their posts, and the occupier will give us a report next year that such cases are not 536 but a thousand 536, and perhaps some of them will be rewarded and declared to be the best civil servants. The report finds that the authorities who disobey the request of the Ombudsman are the Ministry of Environmental Protection – Construction Inspectorate, Ministry of Justice – Civil Law Administration. I repeat, the Civil Rights Administration is deafening the demands of a public defender when he tries to solve the citizens' problem. Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and State Office for State Property Management. It is the 6 bodies of the state authorities that have been found to be most often deaf to the request of the attorney general. The government accepts this finding in the report, and I assume that the leaders of these reactors will soon be promoted. The area of justice, the judiciary, our Commissioner for the Protection of Human Rights whom we have appointed and elected several months ago warns us that Croatian courts are violating human rights. Because of the shameless other deadlines for solving court cases. The Attorney General has no jurisdiction and jurisdiction in the judiciary. It proposes to consider the possibility of extending powers. It proposes that the possibility of extending the mandate of the Advocate General to the judiciary be considered. The government took it silently. That's how I interpret the government's silence. The report also contains a finding that is very important to me. Without stronger state support from the poor local community in accession to resolving Roma issues, the majority of whom are also underprivileged, perhaps that's why. Paradoxically and most complaints about the attitude towards the Roma and discrimination occur precisely in those environments that have been done most for the situation of the Roma and in which they have begun, but no programmes and measures have been completed to improve their living conditions. And they suggest, for the long-term creation of equal conditions for Roma children with preschool education and learning of the Croatian language in all major Roma communities, there is a need to provide resources, but also greater powers, independence in assessing and taking measures, social services on the ground. These services seem to be hampered by formal and bureaucratic procedures, contrary to the nature of social work and do not have the possibility of selective selection of measures necessary to stimulate or correct desirable behaviour. The Ombudsman also warns the competent authorities that there must be a change if we truly want to start solving the problem of a national minority and the Roma community. I want to believe that someone responsible in this country's social services has read this and that it will manifest itself through the bill of amendments to the law. And for the end of three things. In the budget for this year, the Office of the Public Prosecutor for Official Travel has 75 thousand kuna, the Ombudsman for children 140 thousand kuna, and the Advocate General for Gender Equality 99 thousand. For intellectual services, the office of the attorney general has 3 thousand, the lawyer for children 100 thousand and the lawyer for gender equality 206,000 kuna for this year. It is a finding of the situation, a state budget, a government with its opinion or attitude has not disproved these facts. The occupier further warns us that 670,000 kuna is needed this year and I want to believe that the money will be secured in changes to the state budget or reserves with which the finance minister and prime minister can manage. And I end the following, in the assessment and the proposals quote, and while the divisions of the rich and the poor will always be, the division of the weak and powerful in front of the state administration and the courts is inadmissible and fatal to social morality and cohesion, and therefore it is urgent to introduce order and legal equality in law and judicial resolution including free legal and other assistance to the weak and ignorant, and above all orderly, clear criteria, and predictability in terms of deadlines and method of treatment. The occupier proposed that the Republic of Croatia provide the institution with legal and other assistance to weak, helpless ignorants before the judiciary in which they are unequal. Since the proposal for a conclusion that our club would make in this sense that we oblige the Government to come in three months with a proposal for a draft of such a legal solution will not be accepted, I am sure, and I appeal to the ruling representatives' clubs that, by their proposal, the Government undertakes to propose, within 6 months, the implementation of this proposal by the Ombudsman to help Croatian citizens who can't do so alone and because of their ignorance and resources, to obtain justice in the Croatian judiciary and state in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38047	Thank you. As for the government's opinion, the government will have a report at today's session on the work of the attorney general. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38048	Dear Mr. Vice-President, the colleague has incorrectly said twice that the public defender is not an attorney, but that he is the Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the protection of human rights. This is incorrect because the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, who protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the proceedings before state administrative authorities which have public authority as prescribed in Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38049	Thank you. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the command of the War School "Ban Josip Jelačić". On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38050	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 and as far as the reports are concerned, I think we can be satisfied with the report on the work of the Ombudsman, however, what is much more important through this report, I think it is necessary to consider and assess the work of the state bodies of the Republic of Croatia, because what is stated in this report is a de facto one small collection of complaints which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are referring to to the Ombudsman, and in the process of exercising their constitutional rights to state bodies. Now, if we're going to evaluate how our state bodies operate based on this report, it's already another form of debate, and here we have to tell the attorney general right away, absolutely certainly no one has come to the office and no one has written to him to commend the state bodies, but they mainly address when there are certain problems. When we look at all this very clearly, we see that there are still problems in the judiciary and that there are a number of objections to the work of the judiciary and, of course, the total state administration. We talked a lot about the judiciary here last year, and if we were to evaluate this, we see a lot of complaints about the disputed court proceedings, and that's not at all controversial, but I still have to warn when we've been assessing the state of justice for 2004, it would take us 15 years to solve all the backlogs in the judiciary by 7%, I said it wasn't some kind of dramatic progress, and when we did, it would take us 15 years to solve all the backlogs that were. However, after we have introduced certain measures and after we have changed the Law on Courts in the area where we have given greater authority to judicial advisers and the President of the Supreme Court that the cases from the courts that are loaded are being deployed to courts that are less burdened, we can nevertheless assess that there is one progress, too, when we look at the state of the land books, and there is something happening, we see these grants that are now informed something is happening in this segment, this gives one hope, it gives one hope that we will still do something in this mandate and that the Croatian government will achieve certain shifts because the issue of justice is a very important issue on our way to the European Union, because we do not have to edit it for anyone but for the sake of ourselves. And we see the role of the attorney general in relation to the judiciary is, in fact, minimal, and there is one ignorance of our citizens with the very function and role of the attorney general, and here we support in any case these proposals that the Ombudsman has made regarding certain legal changes that would redefine the role of the attorney general in relation to the judiciary. There, of course, we can experience certain remarks that strengthening the function and redefining actually the role of the Ombudsman would be influencing the independence of the judiciary, but I don't think that this should be feared, I think that these measures that are proposed to have the right of insight, that they have the right to demand that the case be resolved more quickly and that they have even the right to seek strict responsibility. I don't think those are measures that could be said to be intruding into the independence of the judiciary. As far as the state administration itself is concerned, it is also an objection that these proceedings are slow, that they last a long time which is not disputed, but what is definitely in the report and that the Croatian government must respect that we and the Government and as a Parliament do not have a full report on the resolution of these administrative matters. So, we don't have one transparent statistic of how many per year, according to the departments of these cases, how many do we get rid of, how many don't get rid of them and stuff like that. This is what we actually need to have in order to adequately assess whether our administration is doing well or not because what is written in the report appears to them, of course, only people who have problems. And here I have to say that last year when the report on the work of the Advocates for 2003 went, and then I said that there was one measure actually that cost nothing, which could be effective and this is about the appeal procedure in the administrative procedure because the administrative procedure is, unlike the court proceedings, it is faster, it is more elastic, it would have to be more efficient and there are the first-degree bodies that have adopted certain solutions and certain administrative acts have the authority to change their own solution on appeal. And here I think that I need that institute, and I am glad that in my report, the Ombudsman said that the institute should be used because there are simply decisions of the administrative courts that are typical of certain things and which are clear and now if the administrative body gets a complaint that it already knows that there is a case law of the administrative court that will actually change the appeal before the administrative court, I don't think that it should wait and not cover the administrative court with so many disputes, but only the administrative body should, in fact, change its solution. And in any case, it's really a measure that absolutely costs nothing, but it's a measure that the government should actually insist on, and the ministers individually in their own ministry that it is being implemented and how it's being implemented, we can only really see if we have a full report on the resolution of these administrative matters by our ministries. That's why, in that part, I absolutely support all these five measures that the Ombudsman has proposed here. And thirdly, what's important, I think that really here's the institution of the attorney general we need to develop, we need to make it as transparent as possible because the attorney general is actually an institution through which the wise government will actually see where the system doesn't work, and that's why it is both the interest and the government and us to develop an institution of the attorney general because through that we will see what weak points we have in the functioning of our state administration and we will be able to react in a timely and good manner. And that's why, I mean, it's really not right for county tours to be funded by other countries, international institutions, for that we need to find money. It's not right. There's a problem and space every year and everything. I think that despite the high pressures, we all know how much the state budget is burdened on us, we all know how much the external debt and deficit of the state budget, but by redistributing the funds, I think we need to find the means to put the attorney general in the way that the institution deserves it. And we see from these statistics, the attorney general in other countries actually, and even smaller than us, is actually one institution that employs more people, which is, of course, the opposite of all these other requirements for the administration to be reduced, that the state spends too much, and the costs should be reduced. But, of course, in that story, then we need to see what's significant and what's not. This is an institution we shouldn't be saving on, this is an institution where we shouldn't deny funds. And that's why here's the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we're aware of all these problems that are here. We support this report, but we're aware of everything that's written here, and in any case, we're going to argue that the government is in line with the possibilities and we're going to find solutions that are already being proposed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38051	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38052	Well, it is incorrect that a colleague found that this year's or a reduction in the number of cases by 7% in 2004 was the result of an amendment to the Law in courts where individual cases were allowed to be moved from one court to another court. This is one measure that can certainly add something a little bit, but reducing procedures can bring and result exactly the systematic measures that have been taken in the last few years. Among them is a significant amendment to the Law on a litigation procedure which speaks precisely of deadlines under threat of even significant infringements of the procedure. Then, it talks about opening up a whole series of courts, about big employment. Only five hundred people are employed in the land where we are during the coalition government a loan was raised at the World Bank... and reshape the land books that began during our term of office. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Unfortunately, the executive law has been abolished which would greatly win over this very situation which, unfortunately, is now escalating.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38053	Thank you. You can't argue. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38054	That's not what I said in 209. I said that 7% of the cases were reduced, and that's just statistically correct. I just said that this was one of the measures that we brought last year and I didn't say that this measure was directly in that relationship and actually the injury, it wasn't a correction, it was actually more of a replica honestly speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38055	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38056	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Mr. Attorney General, the esteemed gentleman of the council! This may sound like a heresy, but it is clear that every country must have a civil defender, the Republic of Croatia must have it, but let me be skeptical of the Ombudsman for children and gender equality. Okay, someone will say that these institutes recognise and know Sweden but Croatia is not Sweden. There may be more problems in Croatia than one in Sweden, but my opinion is that these two defenders should be two confederates at the Ombudsman's office, and then they would come to the number of people the Ombudsman was talking about. Finally, I agree with all those who have said that it is not logical, and this side 135 says that for example, the costs of legal counseling for children, I have nothing against it to avoid being misunderstood, are 2.8 times as much as the attorney general or the lawyer for gender equality, as much as 3.5 times as the attorney general. However, I purposely point out this very information, not to say that I am also reading the end of the report by the attorney general, but to express in some way the solidarity of our MPs with the Attorney General's Office. The whole public calls for MPs, the Parliament doesn't pay for their phones, we don't have offices, etc. But I don't know, he doesn't mention that on Croatian radio television 200 people receive higher salaries than the minister and something similar is in this report. True, when private media is on Wednesday, I will remain silent even though I could talk about privatising these media, but the state institutions would need to know and cannot have the head of a public institution paid more than the prime minister or president of the state. But now it doesn't matter. The Attorney General is nothing but a shoulder to cry on. De facto he is without power as we are agents without power. We may be looking for some information but which we can or may not have to get. And as much as I think that part of the step forward of the esteemed fellow Pupovec was a good part of the demagogy a little while ago. However, this report is in some way a lacmus paper dealing with the problems of Croatian citizens. Let's get along first. The poor one who speaks to a representative or to an attorney general. The one who does so is the poor one, whom neither God in this land can help anymore. We are addressed by people who have lost and their last hope and are now being caught as individuals, which, especially if we are not in the ranks of the ruling party, we can only cry together with those people over their fate, over the fate of the parliament, and if you want to see the fate of the attorney general. I am saying this and because this Parliament is systematically marginalized, underestimated, and always by gentlemen who have power, and I repeat that power is not in this Parliament, it is primarily in the large capital of the executive authority and the clear media. And that's it. But the Parliament should spit because they also know very well that none of this Parliament is threatened by any danger because it is actually an institution without power. What are the main problems in this report? First of all, the work of courts, the longevity of disputes, I often heard calls at the expense of courts, and I have no intention of defending them, we protected them because of independence, it's okay, like bear-like bears, it's good, clearly when they work, but people are unhappy even though it's logical that in such disputes one side always loses the dispute, the other gets and it's clear that the one who loses must be dissatisfied. However, that litigations on the other hand must last 10, 15, 20 years they do not have to. And I join the citizens that this caste has become in some way a privileged and major problem at the moment and by the very independence of the judiciary. They are absolutely untouchable, that is well, but it is not good that Croatia has a million and a half or two million pending cases because of such constitutional position, it may be the culprit and this Parliament who has not simplified the proceedings enough, but the judges have certainly not broken up from the job. I recently read... The constitutional court, which has abolished, is side 35 that union membership is also paid by those who are not members of the union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also think it's okay, it's right only that I didn't know that the initiative was launched by the attorney general. However, the union scene must not be stopped by gentlemen. True, trade unions or union leaders are also politicians, politicians a couple of excellency, that we understand each other, but we need to find ways that the strongest trade unions in this country can continue to exist in the counties. There are unions that have inherited property from the former Yugoslav, there are others who do not have and there are those in an unequal position. And why do they have to exist? Because we will agree that the biggest problem, today in this country, is universal, above all unemployment, well, unemployment should not be dealt with by trade unions but should be warned, but working opportunities are certainly not ideal in the Republic of Croatia. Somewhere else, there is a pension problem. The truth can sometimes wait 10, 12 months, 14 months, especially if one of the former Yugoslav republics worked. It's just unimaginable. Imagine someone not getting paid 10 or 12 or 14 months or not getting a pension of 10, 12, 14 months or as Mr. Leko mentioned 3 years or 36 months. But that's what I'm trying to say. Although that is not the problem for 2004, it is the 2005 problem, so-called. double taxation of the so-called Slovenian pensions. I know it's gonna be 10. 6th or in Brijuni or Pula, Mr Sanader and Janša to sign a double taxation agreement, this should be welcomed because 14000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia are mostly receiving Slovenian pensions at the border. But what happens, we blame them for this situation, they blame us. And what is particularly important is that such a single contract is then, as soon as possible, ratified both in our and in the Slovenian Parliament because it is a simple life. People are losing at this time 500, 1500 kuna, it's an old age population, and it's time to adapt. One word, please, and a far faster solution when the pension institution is on Wednesday about issuing a solution to our pensioners, or, yes, to the pensioners. They're interesting and so-called. Work disputes. The state owes almost 10 billion kuna on various grounds, it will surely lose 50% of that amount, which is about 5 billion kuna. If all those verdicts suddenly came toll, the state would go bankrupt. And about that clearly politicians, not now the courts have to make sure they don't promise one thing without the other not, then they do. For example. VAT 20% or pension adjustment with salaries, so now we see a drop, i.e. returns to what was until 2003, etc., etc. Household law. That must be a huge problem. There is also a conflict agreement, international agreements have power over the law, and the problem Croatia will have to resolve. I would like to quote, no one has touched this so far, page three of the Ombudsman, where it is said that on the one hand, it is thought that the applicable law which is also covered by the Agreement on Succession, the postponement of its solution in the near future could cause a number of problems, especially given that the successful solution to this issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been said. On the contrary, the view is that it is primarily a political and not a legal issue, i.e. there is no legal foothold to update this issue as if there were also a need to bear in mind the circumstances in which the said right had been lost. However, housing law is, in some ways, a front, under quotes, clear that it is not the same, to some ownerly, really legal relationship. No one's gonna tell me who he is, for example. He left Sisak in 92, and before that we know what was going on in the city, that under quotes, "he gave up tenantly". I mean, there'll be these permanent, gentlemen of the polemics. The question arises as to why all of this, the one who left the city with the JNA, is another thing, but now the tenant is in a worse position than the one who was, say, in the late '90s and so on. What we'll finally do with those who are during the so-called. The Brijuni declarations replaced the apartment so they eventually lost both their own and their other even though they were, let them and be warned not to, but all they did was lay artis, and if they were to judge third, I think they would side with the householder's rights. IDS, just the IDS was fighting to rent into what's-his-name. The apartments of JNA don't pay the extra square, the ones who lived there know what it is. Whether an IDS honored it in the elections I doubt it but I know that we helped many of Pula, Rijeka, Zagreb, Split and we have reason to be proud of it. I'm sure that's the way it is. I also think there's a lot of mention here about what happened after Storm. These individuals did not realize when they were doing it to destroy Croatian property, clearly owned by the Serb population, and the tragedy was complete what was happening after the end of the war and it seemed that they would no longer return. But why don't they come back if people didn't cut in the blood? Why don't we keep living where they lived? Why not be buried in places where their ancestors are buried, etc.? Two sentences on the return of property. First to the tenants of the so-called. Nationalized apartments should belong to an apartment where they live 50, 60, I don't know how many years. Some of '45. Let's go. There, there's an IDS decoded as well as a so-called. Optanic assets that the optanists have to solve this problem exclusively in Rome. Not to solve in Zagreb or Ljubljana. The truth is, the state needs to pay off the $35 million plus solve the 5 grand of 236 people who got the so-called. leave from Yugoslav citizenship which is a problem, but this needs to be resolved as soon as possible although state logic is clear. Every day late, one applicant requests less. However, there are 5 thousand 236 people of 196,000 Ezul who left Croatia after World War II. I will not waste my words on the Roma here. They need help because the way they live today, 2005 is incomprehensible. For the end, it's just an illegal construction that's being mentioned. I know the opportunities in Istria, especially in the area of Marchana. It's a disaster. There's nothing to help. The space has been devastated, however, insolence never ends. The coast should be protected and it must be "condio sin quo non" but where it is possible to fit into spatial plans it should also be done but before that again invite people to discipline. Finally, the mayor of Istrian County was building a basement without permission. They brought him down, and no one clear after that, or before that, can tolerate such a situation. I'm saying this because the impact on the coast of the people of Istria, outside Istria, is no different, such that it's a problem that everyone has to face. But it's also a question of who's selling this country? It's not sold by the county or the municipalities. It's sold by small people who solve themselves in this way. That's the point. All in all this report I see as kind of a shoulder to cry on, but the poor thing says a saying is also difficult to God. The one who has. That one will certainly not turn to the defender or the representative. They will address either the lawyers directly or the courts under allegations. And say what? The IDS of course supports this report. For the end, maybe just one personal case. A woman recently approached me, an old woman from Pula who had a house in construction in the 1990s, but also an apartment of former JNA. It was some ground floor, nothing, in the early stages of construction. She lost the dispute, and today she's just about a thousand and a half, two thousand kuna, I don't know how many pensions she has to pay a market rent in a military apartment. I am aware that it has been wronged, but everything is backed up by judicial decisions, or decisions, that clear people in the ministry are today only being called for by the court's decision. And finally that tenant was a musician at JNA. It's a paradox. He was neither a general nor an officer nor an aggressor, but who in this country to understand these little people, and I am going to turn to the general's attorney with this particular example when I fail to do anything else "vis avis" that person.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38057	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Party, a true colleague, Pero Kovacevic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38058	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General with his associates. Yesterday and today, we are considering three important reports, and this is the Ombudsman for children, lawyers for gender equality, and now the attorney general, where all of them means the defenders perform as attorneys of the Croatian Parliament. And the reports, in particular, show no power. So one infirmity when the authorities do not respond at all to the demands of the attorney general, and the occupier performs as the authority of the Croatian Parliament. And now let's take the list of institutions that most often go deaf about the demands of the attorney general, and these are: the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, and the State Office for State Property Management. So what do you say now? So the occupier is acting as the authority of the Croatian Parliament. We, Croatia reportedly has a parliamentary system. So what kind of ministers are officials who do not respond to the request of the Croatian Parliament's authority? And how can we go over that fact that those who correspond to the Croatian Assembly are not responding and will not respond to the request of the occupier, and when he performs as an authority, it means that it is the same situation whether he signed by President Seks, whether he performs. And we are now very simply going over this situation rather than deciding today to use the Vice President or President of the Parliament's powers and tell the honourable ministers to choose to come at 3:00, at 3:00 in the assembly and here in front of parliamentary deputies to tell why they defaminate the Ombudsman? Why are they demeaning the Croatian Parliament? Why are they doing this? Why are they playing with human destiny? If we do not start talking that way and take appropriate measures, what has always happened will happen. We will point to a considerable number of the problems expressed by the attorney general in his report. Those reports will be isolated, and the situation will continue to be the same. The situation will continue to be the same as it was, as reported in this report. As reported in the 2003 report. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I demand the leadership of the Assembly's presidency to choose to invite ministers, responsible officials to come to the Croatian Parliament at 3:00 and say why not do their job? Why are they demeaning the Croatian Parliament? Why are they demeaning the institution of the attorney general? Only in this way can it be done in order for us to start acting responsibly towards what our task is, and it is our job if we have authorized, and we are the attorney general to help him in this part that he can carry out his duties because unfortunately, according to the current state of affairs and according to the current legal decisions, there is no measure. He can say it in public. It's a question of who's going to publish it. It's a question of who's going to publish it. Therefore, this is a request from the Croatian Party club because it will happen to us as always happens. We'll adopt reports. Neither the problem of the funds enough to work will be resolved by the Ombudsman nor will the issue of rooms or anything else be resolved. We'll come back in a year, we'll discuss this report. We'll talk again about how this report proves that our rule of law doesn't work, that we don't have government bodies working. So the central authorities. That our bodies don't even work with public authority. In fact, they're not citizens' services. That they become a purpose to themselves. They become a purpose to themselves because how to say about countless of these cases that are listed here. As a result, according to the HSP Club’s assessment, this report is far and higher than the two other reports we have considered because they have at least tried to point out the meanings of these 2 thousand 710, for example, which depict the situation in each area. And now, normally, if we don't have a functioning and inefficient government is automatically required to have an echo in the judiciary because all these cases that are not solved by the central government mean the central government or public authorities end up in a court of law. They end up in court because citizens don't have any legal option but it's the only legal possibility to appeal to them. And now that we're in court, we know what the situation is. There is also a case here, I can tell you countless cases from what we representatives of the Croatian Party are doing. We're holding office days and let's say I had about 38 office days in the area of my constituency, over 1,000 and some parties were there and managed to help people in over 70% of cases. So it's another way of doing the same thing to my other colleagues and colleagues from the club. This is another way where we MPs can act directly and take action and help people to exercise their rights. Next thing you know, we're seeing the laws we get ourselves. In general, this report follows that no administrative supervision is carried out in the country at all. The ministries forgot that one of their main tasks was to conduct administrative oversight, and on the other hand they forgot that they were responsible for the situation in a particular area they covered. Now, what is this responsibility for the situation in the area when we have a list of these six, seven state bodies, the central authorities of the state administration that don't even respond, and we know what the situation in their area is, what is the situation in the area of lawless construction, what is the situation in the area of pension insurance and the resolution of these demands, what is the situation regarding the defence issue, what is the situation regarding refugees, what is the situation regarding political prisoners. No condition. The situation is alarmingly bad and therefore we cannot just go over all of this because for each of these areas I can tell you on behalf of the HSP Club other examples that are not contained in the report, people did not address meaning to the Ombudsman, perhaps some are where they also point to the same problem. Well, let's just say he's injured and he's putting status rights at risk. Mr. Cain spoke about Croatian broadcasting. I have the case of Mr. Rajko Daday who has the court's executive verdict that Croatian Radio Television must return it to work. She doesn't do that. So she deafens herself to the Croatian court's executive verdict. She doesn't do it and what do you say now? We have a situation, for example, property and housing issues, a case of 6 families of Croatian military disableds and defenders from the Split area. These are the families of Buljan, Erceg and others who received from the Ministry of Defence of dwellings, and in the end, they were normally lost by the return of tenant rights, and they were deposed, and none of these authorities answered them what, as in such cases. So this is about Croatian wartime disabled people who, like with that apartment, were legally resolved in paper. Now they're going to be decommissioned, they're going to end up on the street, and the state is not responding to anything in that case. Also, the situation exists for you regarding the rights of political prisoners. There are also executive documents that have to be paid, but unfortunately the case of Mrs. from the Crosses where nothing has been done. So there are countless examples like this, and there are countless examples that after four, five years, the issue of pension insurance rights as it is here and counted in the report, and no one answers for it. Watch out, and then, normally the attorney general is thinking about it, it's 60 days to solve a bar to make something look as legal, let's extend the deadline. In our view, not to extend the deadline, but to go through that institute, if it is not done in time for the revision, means it is automatically considered to be a first-degree solution, and then in such cases the head of that body of the state administration or the authorised person who solves it should be held accountable, and then the state will proceed with a regressive suit against them and make up for the whole part. Because it is the only way that this inert bureaucracy, the state administration that has become the purpose of self-remembering that they are there for Croatian citizens and that they must implement Croatian laws, that they must comply with Croatian laws both in time and in time. And that's the part where it can automatically be achieved that the rule of law starts to work, that the central government authorities start to function, and also bodies with public authority, and then we will automatically have less pressure on the judiciary as soon as the central government and public authorities work, far less cases will end in courts. And what reforms are being carried out in the judiciary is best visible to you when the Ministry of Justice is not responding to the attorney general, and they say they are doing reforms. Therefore, all of this needs to be carefully and carefully read and we see a lot of situations not working. Let's say the situation goes further. What does this report say? So, this part of what we are talking about on behalf of the HSP Club is said in the sense that it is also necessary to respond legally, not only to these measures, both politically and legally but also to the legal ones, which is the situation of the introduction of a legal aid institute, the introduction of legal aid institutes both with the judicial authority and with the central authorities of the state administration. Let's say, when either of you went to some central government body and said I wanted to make a statement, a request orally on the record. I don't know if that's who in the government's bodies is doing this. I left and said, "Give me a request." I'm saying no, I'm giving you a request to the ZUP orally on the record. Please tell me I've come to you uninvited, and now there's so much time and I'm asking for it. But he says, "We don't do it." So he said, but in Croatian law, it says that you must do it. Why don't we make a situation when the inspection finds that there are concrete measures that it can take. Let's say in this variant, if the minister does not answer to 50% of his salary, the second time he has to take responsibility for the Croatian Parliament and vote on his trust or mistrust. So these are the measures where something can be done effectively to improve the situation. And now we're coming back to this issue of the functioning of the judiciary. I think the Attorney General is right that he should have certain options for reacting, especially in these cases of delay and lengthy lengthy lengthy court proceedings because there are countless examples of such a nature to obtain, for example, the judgment of the Administrative Court. Then that verdict is not respected, so you have to go to the Administrative Court again. That's exactly how I went in a dispute with the Department of Defense. I had the right to return to the Armed Forces. At the time, Mr. Rados thought I was politically inadequate, so there was silence from the administration. I went to the administrative dispute. I got a administrative dispute about the administration's silence. Unfortunately, it wasn't made for that either, but it was as a solution that I gave up my request when I never gave it up. I've again received a new ruling from the Administrative Court. Here, it's just one of the situations. I speak my own personal example, and such examples, such as workers who have been illegally fired in the INI, have been illegally fired in the INI. Four, it was successful to get, if this process has lasted since 2000 and it has been going on and on and on and on and on, first-degree, second-degree again even though it is clearly apparent that a failure has been made illegally. But nothing, nothing at all, and such situations in every area, you have every area. There will be more if we don't understand one thing that we have to act no matter what the government and these ministers think. But we have to act by the Constitution and call them to account in all these cases when they do not comply with the requirements, and the fact itself says enough that these other cases will be solved if they continue not to respond, and they will all boast and will say that they are excellent for the establishment of the rule of law in their area. Now we see what the situation is, and therefore if we adopt the report without taking measures each year, we will have the same situation if not worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38059	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, colleague Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38060	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Always the debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman is an opportunity to think first, to give answers and to assess the role and place of the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary democracy and through our authority as we have the reputation, because this reputation we have is the strongest weapon and strongest legitimacy in the hand of the attorney general. The dignity of this House represents all of us individually the weight that the Ombudsman has estimating, solving and trying to find the best, the most just answers to the numerous complaints that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have. The number of objects, the structure of the case does not testify and can often not be brought into line with the content of the most important principles to be achieved. Why? It is unquestionable that reports on the work of the occupier are more appropriate every year. That they are entrenched with various structures, that they are clarified with the numbers that have been processed and which are not, with those who have been satisfied and who have not been satisfied. But the key task in my debate in the Croatian Parliament is to answer the question of how to help the Ombudsman's Office fully achieve the rights that belong to it under the Constitution and by law. How to avoid obstructions often by the authorities of the state administration, the county authorities, municipal and urban authorities which do not respond or who misrepresent the request of the Office of the Public Attorney. What are the measures that we can take and which we have at our disposal as the Croatian Parliament to lack them, the problems of individual but also grouped when it comes to Croatian pensioners, when it comes to the individual structures of this society, when it comes to those that we often place in the order of the poor. And the poor and the rich have been, and unfortunately, these differences will likely exist in the future. And society kind of accepted those standards. That is why Croatia is a social state, and then every government's policy tries to equalise the relationship of rich and poor and measures to take those measures to equalise relations and improve the quality of life for those poor. But what this House must not first of all be allowed to do, and what the state, excuse me, the attorney general must say is that there must be no weak and powerless waiting in front of the state administration. And on the other hand, there are powerful ones who do not belong to them. Therefore, the task of the debate on the situation and this report is the task of achieving mechanisms that are weak and powerless, which in most cases are the subject of all these sad life stories and fate, how to bring the state administration at all levels, that local and regional regional self-government treats them equally well with the same respect as those who have. If the state administration itself, and this is also confirmed here, does not find time through its ministries and its bodies and does not give at least the satisfaction of responding to the request of the attorney general without bearing any sanctions. Then what example and what opportunities are still available to our authority or translated into ourselves. Therefore, we can commend this report in a normative sense. We can say that a huge effort has been made to achieve improvements in certain segments. There's been a split in the complaint. Retiremental insurance complaints are growing for a reason. They are linked exclusively to social sensitivity. They are linked to the structure of our citizens who are apparently living the worst and the hardest. And it is evident that it is in this field that the social sensitivity of the state administration and that in this field lies the greatest blow that our citizens receive every day during the exercise of their rights. And the older they are, the more helpless they are, the more helpless they are. Therefore, the social category that we have to defend everywhere and in every place, and we need to help the occupier to create and the conditions for this House to regulate those who do not respond, who will not be involved in the demands of the Ombudsman to solve certain cases. There are a whole series of complaints relating to various positions of life in various structures. I'm only going to list some that I hold out that so far there's been no talk about them. Although the issue of urbanism, construction, environmental protection or construction does not take up some terrible place, but it is still on the rise compared to 2003, the problem in citizens is causing huge trauma, huge problems, but always misunderstandings, misunderstandings of causes and consequences. The causes that have led to such a situation in urbanism, such a situation in the area, such a situation in construction, these causes are far more significant and as long as they are not fully aware of the consequences of this situation that we have today, which is worrying, but also in this worrying state and in such circumstances there is a structure of citizens whose human, civil, civilization and life rights are also at risk. Because if a man in his municipality can't come to a quality spatial plan in his city for 30 years, if he can't afford to consume rights by law and if he decides to still have his family, and he has to arrange it to arrange his life, then, of course, he's an offender because he illegally built an object. But of course, there's the other side that he's not allowed to do. And in the current procedure, this situation, as is evident from the press, has been further complicated, and in the last ten days, they say there has been a complete delay in construction, especially in so-called construction. PDO or protected coastal belt. Because the government's regulation, this last one, is completely incomprehensible, so I can't even interpret the authorities of the state administration who are in charge of carrying them out, but they can't even interpret them. So there's trouble everywhere. But the most important task of this House for me is that by the authority and legitimacy that we have and which we have passed on to our authority, we ask those who account for us, and that's the executive authority, that if we can't call other structures in this manner of responsibility, we invite them. Therefore, the executive authority must be obliged to respond to what the Ombudsman has asked them to do and that citizens must have the right to respond to their government and that is the key thing and that is the most we can do at this time and believe that only those responsible to us will be corrected, the next report will be far more quality, and believe that both man and institution can bear as much burden as they can. We can put more weight on them, but he won't be able to handle it, and he won't get rid of it. Therefore, the measures at the disposal of this House must be regulated in those cases where the operation of the state authorities is not in conformity with the law and with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38061	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next is on behalf of the National Minority Club, counterpart Nikola Mak. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38062	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Attorney General with his associates. This 2004 report on the work of the Ombudsman, signed by two leaders of this important institution of our democratic system, waiting as long as five months until the election of a new ombudsman. This was certainly very bad, and it reflects our understanding of his role and importance, and therefore our assessment of their work and effects is even more commendable. The Club of National Minorities discussed this report not only from the point of view of the threat to national minorities' rights but also from a general view of certain rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I will present our assessments, opinions and proposals first. First of all, we repeat, our observations last year, that the first-degree bodies of the state administration's office are generally clear and conscious and professionally, and they bring first-degree solutions to the denationalisation process in real time. However, very often unnecessary and chicantly involved in the process involves the state attorney's office and local authorities and the second-degree bodies of the Ministry of Justice are overly burdened and something that was possible to resolve in the first degree is delayed. We are all talking about first-degree bodies and the second-degree body, and we are completely losing sight of that someone has intervened in the process in the meantime, which is the State Attorney's Office, that is, the former public defendership and the local authority who, in principle, certainly brings red tape and in this way they have begun to exclude themselves from the public eye, and in view of the public, they remain first-degree bodies and remains the Ministry of Justice as second-degree when it comes to the denationalisation process, and in the Ministry of Justice because of the few professional staff and burdens and other second-degree procedures, they do not reach it in satisfactory time. In such cases, a fundamental question is raised, in whose interest are the State's attorneys and representatives of local authorities? Are they not also the bodies of those citizens, that they are the citizens of them, and that they may finance them? And therefore, what we heard today from the HDZ Club and what Mr. Public Advocate suggests in his conclusions, that they should have first-degree bodies when they receive a complaint and when they receive a response to the appeal that they use those legal powers they already have and to resolve. Just to be honest, I'd like to see what state administration's office will do on the ground, the head of the state administration, the referents who solve it, who will take that courage upon themselves and solve it within these legal options. However, this possibility exists and needs to be insisted, and this support to your request to apply this more often is the way to end the suffering, unnecessary suffering for the citizens. Of course, we exclude from this criticism those cases that are controversial and where there are clear arguments to initiate the second-degree procedure. To such complaints, citizens generally do not raise objections to the Ombudsman. So we believe that the state's attorney's office and local authorities with much more attention and self-criticity should participate in these processes, and then there will be fewer complaints to the attorney general. In the work of the Ombudsman, we commend the exit from the Zagreb office and the talks in certain counties. This is an example for the other centralized bodies of our country, and in the budget of the Ombudsman, there should be sufficient resources for even more intensive work outside Zagreb, unlike some of the remarks that have been made here, we believe that the funds of foreign donors should also be used because it does not matter what color the cat is but whether it is hunting mice or not. With special satisfaction, we note the social sensitivity with which the Ombudsman deals with the problems of members of the national minorities and not only the Roma, of course, to the Roma who deserve the greatest attention because of their overall difficult position but also to the members of all other national minorities. When it comes to Roma, it should also be pointed out that the international community has been involved since next year in solving their personal problems in the programme "Decade for Roma", which is also within which our national programme for Roma was adopted in 2003. This will certainly help to reduce the number of complaints to the occupier in this population. This report specifically lists the part that warns us about possible segregation of Roma children in lower classes of primary schools. Here we point out and warn about the exceptional sensitivity and complexity of this problem which is not black and white as it is often surface-simplified and then, of course, misjudges and interprets in the local and foreign public and creates the wrong picture in the law of those environments that have been most done in the education of Roma children and otherwise in solving the problem of the Roma population, which is the most visible example of the town of Čakovec and Međimurje County. The National Minority Club particularly appreciates and supports clearly core proposals, which at the end of the report is the new Ombudsman from page 124 to 139, which, of course, highlights its sensitivity to the problems of the Roma population. In these proposals, we see a real starting point for getting out of the present vicious cycle of repeating problems and possible solutions. If in 2005, all those who are responsible for the situation discussed in this report do not remove the causes of these problems, and they have actually been unsolved for a number of years, then the work of the Ombudsman will also have less and less meaning and impact, and that would be a very bad sign of our democracy. Therefore, both the Council shall not be satisfied with the paper findings and conclusions of this Report when adopting the laws and the Government and the local authorities in their application. Croatian citizens deserve effective protection of their rights, and the best protection will be when the Ombudsman will have nothing to do. But it's certainly a distant future. Until then, let us make it possible for the attorney general to exercise his legal rights and obligations as effectively as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38063	Thank you, fellow representative. On behalf of the club HSLS, LS and DC, colleague Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38064	Honored Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Malcic, dear colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me, this is the 10th, 11th report by the occupier in this House, and I'm afraid nothing is changing. I usually quoted Remark, so we said nothing new in the west. We could now quote the same wise Arabic proverb: "dogs bark, and caravans pass." And let's be honest with ourselves, I'm afraid nothing dramatic will happen next year when, in 2006, when we receive here, when we listen here and refer to the 2005 Report. What does that show? It shows, in fact, that every report and our relationship to it actually only happens in one ritual. The Attorney General is tasked with writing a report. This report is written correctly, it's exhaustive, it's thorough, it's analytical, and on that side, the man has done his job. On the other hand, we receive this report, we have some observation about it, but nothing important changes, and that's what really needs to be frustrating. Such behavior is inadmissible and apparently many things in our society are not arranged. Now, who is responsible for such a situation that nothing really matters and that, well, and now, we can say with full responsibility that when we discuss it next year, nothing will change. The rest, I say, of observation, of a few remarks, of a few praises, and we will continue to realize that our whole series of institutions is actually not working because simply, even by sound reasonable logic, if we praise the reports of the Ombudsman, then we can conclude those arguments and contraio that there really is a whole series of institutions that don't do their job at all. And we obviously agree with that, with that kind of knowledge when we don't change anything important. I know that Parliament or debates like this are not the best place to open up a theoretical debate which we do because obviously something is rotten in the state of Denmark when it is so possible. I've talked here on several occasions about that there's actually a double state. On the one hand, you have a state that you can, that is, what the state thinks of yourself and us as Parliament, are the National Journals that pass laws, and then there is something besides that. There's something besides the People's Newspaper, some other right, some other relationship that just, in fact, what it says in the People's Newspaper is very elegantly derrogating. And to derogate is precisely showing this large number of complaints against the occupier, where man must also write in a large number of cases that he is not in charge. Now, if you have one local level that you are for a large number, that the mayors, mayors, mayors are incompetent and then, I don't know, and the Parliament obviously agrees with that finding that we can't really do absolutely much or almost anything then what's the problem? Whether legislation should be changed, whether and in any way, to impose certain sanctions, to ensure that someone is properly sanctioned, or punished, or commended if he deserves it. It is clear that the Minister of Justice cannot and must not influence the work of the courts, i.e. the institutions, their autonomy mirrored every democracy and ours. But obviously, out of some problems, we all will, we can't close our eyes and just, I say, here's the deal, and then we always think it's happening to others. Because we're usually this ex-terrorist, being a parliamentary representative gives us a different position, so that's what I say happens to someone else. Well, that, I think, is what Mr. Malcic himself said, and some MPs have reiterated that this relationship with the public defender, precisely with this impenetrableness of our institutions, has our Croatian citizens who belong to that segment that we usually undermine under the heading "an orphan, poorer people, people who for some reason are in an unfavourable position". Ordinarily, it's usually called "weak subjects." Obviously, we have made a whole series of mistakes in our structure of our society, that our society is obviously not consistent when something like this should happen. We're here and there, again... that our privatisation isn't very successful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That some have used some old political powers to turn these political powers into some new types of economic power. And that's that finding. We're talking about something, a revision, but usually it's pre-election, and usually it's part of some promises. But when you get into a situation where some of this is realized then it's clearly out of it because it's going to be a political relationship of power, that it's not good. We also swear by the reconstruction of the economy, but we forget that this reconstruction then does not follow the reconstruction of democratic institutions. Before... So, Parliament, state, society as a whole, and then it feels very strongly in these very everyday relationships where it is precisely the fact that we are facing a large number of exactly these tragic cases that are then asked for help with the attorney general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He, as someone here has said, shoulder to cry and just really seems frustrating when you read down the note, the public defender is not competent. Now who he is or who should be in charge or who's going to take that responsibility so that it doesn't really change for the better. I think no one but Parliament and Parliament must really be chosen to take that role to create these important political, economic relations in our society. And no, I'm saying, as we ritually accept, we praise reports that match the genre, that they're thorough, that they're exhaustive, and then, I don't know, we just figure out every year that the reasonable deadline for a verdict is. That until the European Court of Justice warns us in Strasbourg and until it becomes part of it, it only then becomes a part of our public, and we actually live with such cases on a daily basis. There are no municipalities, there is no city in our Croatia where we personally do not know about these cases, but precisely because you respect the autonomy of the judiciary, which you do not want and cannot in any way act politically simple life, this parallel life, that double state, that other face of the state that is not at all great, I say, what these reports show. That's exactly what I think it's about time we got something done. To say this behavior wasn't great, that it belonged to someone, come on, a period of transition, that transition is, we want to believe that at the end and that building these democratic institutions is something that is necessary. I mean, I'm not going to say anything, I'm not going to invent hot water when I say it's not enough, it's not enough democratic institutions just to create, but to build, cultivate and develop them. We are obviously prone to actually going a few times to inflation these democratic institutions, institutions. Here, two days we have even a few... for gender equality, for children, for the attorney general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying, I'm afraid, apart from the fact that we're going to ritually accept with more or less approval of that report, that the situation in society is not going to change, and I think that the Parliament is the most invited to change that. With that simple, I'm going to belong again, because I've said it several times before, and I said that almost nothing would be noticed that man would read the old report, because you're just changing the situation year, or a certain number of subjects that are less or more threatened by the area of society, but more or less everything else remains the same. I would not really like to quote Remark, so that in the West we have nothing new, or this is how we relive everything so as to say "eto dogs bark and caravans go by", but this can really be one reason to do and I think we promised ourselves somewhere in 2002 if I'm not mistaken for a thematic debate in this House on the state of human rights in Croatia, I think that as a society and as a parliament we can face it, and that we can really look that state in the eyes and really be aware that we are not as beautiful, smart... as we think, but certainly there are medicines to this. What the drug says is under the leg just needs to move the leg or make certain steps that can be painful, which can be like this, but certainly without sanctioning a certain negativity of a certain bit of obstruction, the functioning of a rule of law, and they say by that... but the rule of law works and how much we are able to suspend the power of an individual or state that we can actually talk about a modern civil democratic society now as we think, we all think privately that we are and that we should be. But I'm saying there's obviously something behind it. I'm saying again about these financial problems, that the Norwegian government, before that Canada, the OSCE that they have to finance, I don't think we really need it because then it's just a small step away from someone saying that a colleague of Malcic and his office are mercenaries in the function of some other services that we already have, we've had examples. I think that this country, in fact, should do this for itself, not because it is good, or a good recommendation for this or that membership in any international or European association. Now, in this sense, and in the name of the HSLS DC LS Club, what exactly does the report make ambivalent on the one hand, the office of a man who has done it well by one good tradition, and on the other hand, dissatisfaction is obvious that there is a whole series of institutions that are really not doing their job well and who are causing exactly a frustrating feeling to every citizen of this country, and so should we Assembly representatives who should finally break up with one such practice. I think what I should say at the end, too, is ritualically that this report is accepted but it really doesn't make much sense, it's just a premise, and it's not going to have any effect unless there's a change of practice, so I'd like it as a rare when I'm being denied in my life, and it really doesn't really make any sense in 2006 that it just follows that someone's been carrying a certain consequentiality because some object has been stalling for 5, 10, 15 or 20 years, or... someone's making a man's pension impossible right now and not after a few months, because today it's computer time, information, we think that those calculations really need to go from themselves, which would mean to any man and us not get paid for a few months, then we imagine a man who's really waiting for that pension as a cold sun, and there someone is actually making fun for all of us. If that were not to happen, we would really like the report to be as short as possible with as few of these cases as possible because it would be our ideal, but still that next year we know about certain sanctions against those who do not do their job in the way that, in accordance with the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia, those laws that we can read in the National Journal, not those who are actually being implemented and who very often serve as a substitution for this rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38065	Thank you very much, colleague. No more registered clubs, we can start with an individual debate. The first is for an individual debate, counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38066	Thank you, Madam Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. It took a very short period of time for our prodigal defender to meet and see the rights of the weak, all their sorrows, all their helplessness, all their hopelessness, hopelessness, maybe instantaneous apathy, but still anger and anger and not coping with the situation. It is certainly necessary to give recognition and accept this report but in no case should we make peace with such a situation and should in any case propose conclusions and adopt the conclusions that such a situation should change. The Attorney General points out that the division of the poor and the rich must not result in such division in front of the judicial and administrative bodies, and finds that the rich and the poor have always been, and that is correct. But even more true is the claim that in Croatia's history there has never been any poorer and never been richer, and not only that, but that trend goes on and on and on, it is not finished, so the richer they become even richer, and the poorer they become more and more poorer. It is therefore illusory to expect that those who are paupers who are poor will be able to bring any justice to the court or to the state authorities. We can be surprised what it is, but we all know from life that there's hardly any trafficker who didn't end up in court, and he was well and quite punished for it, but we don't remember that someone stole, robbed and banked, and converted various abuses and illegalities and that the matter was brought to an end and got the fine. And I think he's too modestly hard-wired our public defender that maybe this isn't a representative part of our population, unfortunately it is. Because the rich are not threatened, in front of the state, in front of its authorities, in front of the court. Yesterday we also had a report that ended today on violence against children, i.e. children’s lawyers and lawyers for gender equality. It is already clear when a drunk who beats his wife and children will end up in prison immediately will be given a measure, but if a man who is in a tie who usually and often and undiscovered crime of white collars, who is in a certain position, there is a terrible prejudice that such crimes do not. So if we look at the structure of the condemned, then we'll see that the efficiency of our system, both the judicial system and that of the administrative system reflects and achieves itself on the poor but not on the rich. That's why there's no complaints from the public defender from the rich in front of you, in front of your office, in front of your associates. If they get caught up in such troubles, they'll find a different way. And now we need to speak more here without any stuttering, we, as a coalition government, have been burdened with a terrible interference in judicial power, so we have created such legal instruments whose consequences we see here as well. There is still a very high system ineffectiveness, although huge funds have been invested to improve what is not enough and not enough in a material sense, but at least in this. At least enough to strengthen the moral habitat of government officials and then judicial officials. That's what you're saying here, and every moment and every support you've got. The independence of the judiciary is not independence from common sense, from sound logic, is not independence from the law. We are in this sense, and it is regrettable that this legal proposal has not been accepted and proposed a criminal offence against the law by a judge who has always existed in the Croatian legal system. It exists in the Constitution. Then things would clear up because you have a paradox that happens in the judiciary that these thugs and powerful men who seem to be able to do nothing but justice when they open an investigation report such conscientious investigative judges or debated to deconcentrate them and destabilise them in their powers and in their fair work, while others don't even have applications. So it's obvious there's something to be done, but if I do, I'll go back to what seems most important to me. If the poor become poorer, the richer all these measures will not bring true results. I think the core of the problem is, despite the fact that such theories as today are unpopular or recently unpopular, and I think they're getting more and more popular because they're true. However, the government's state policy is to protect the rich rather than the poor. Just a few applications. A number of benefits under the parole have been abolished, or the justification that these benefits have been used is only rich because the poor have not even come to an opportunity and this is a terrible burden on the budget. And what are the results of that now? That the benefits were abolished which led to one legal order that everyone was stimulated and taxed and that he would then return to him if he was overpaid. However, the government's cash register is getting poorer and never worse. And if it wasn't an accident, it would be another piece of information. If we had made this government possible now, and we had previously made it impossible for the owners of companies that had liquidated their company because they had fallen into debt, because they had not paid the state their taxes, taxes and compulsory insurance, or paid the worker that it was impossible for such a owner to start a new company, but today we have a new password fast, but quickly only for those. And they can start a company even though they've left the workers and his family in despair and they haven't paid him the salary or paid the state. But the state doesn't care. Hence, mechanisms are created that please only the rich and not the poor. One more thing. The government has persistently refused to sanction non-payment of wages as a criminal offence. He exists in our legal system the right to pay and so all such applications are rejected because there is no one who has denied anyone the right and that he cannot achieve who cares. We were suggesting it, it was also adopted but abolished during this government and again the government refuses to sanction it. So such situations are not random. They are the concept of this government where the poor, where the rights of the poor will grow poorer and weaker. And support should be given to the authorities if the intention is to do what the Ombudsman is proposing that there is no system in Europe or in the world where the executive and the legislative authority in this way does not control the judicial and vice versa. Well, even in our Constitution, there's a trodioba guaranteed, but there's mutual control, and there's our support if you have the courage to do it because you have the support to do it. Because we see that this system doesn't work anymore. We had it right away because the public was very sensitized and it's still very critical of the judiciary so much would be even more critical if someone dared to stick to the independence of the judiciary. We've had grotesque things that this House fired a judicial official because he didn't answer his job and was previously killed. So, because of these monstrous things, we've gotten ourselves into a situation like this so that you can no longer control the situation of why an object has been standing for 15 years and that it's considered an attack on the judiciary. It's not an assault on the judiciary. So what you can and must control is what you need as well. After all, citizens expect it and they know very well what it is and what it is not an attack on the judiciary. And maybe one more sentence as far as the administration itself is concerned. It is unacceptable for the ministry as a second-degree body in all almost ministries to have patterns of answers to first-degree solutions. The appeal is denied because you and those reasons wouldn't have led to anything different. Therefore, there is no real reason nor are they mentioned and then the Court of Justice is normally burdened with these cases because the appeal or the second-degree solution has no reason at all. So these are things that need to be controlled and it's our duty. That is why I propose that we adopt these proposals made by the Ombudsman and empower him in monetary terms, so in this amount in budgetary terms, because he will continue to be, his powers will be weak and insufficient just as weak and insufficient as his resources are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38067	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of fellow MP Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38068	Thank you, Madam President. Namely, the correction of the wrong allegation in combination with the state statement helps the rich and not the poor. Now, the illustration of that was tax returns. The tax return, right, was possible up to three times 12 thousand kuna, so 36,000 kuna that none of the poor could ever get. And now it's still worth it. He's not at 12,000 kuna, but I'd ask my colleague to really, when she illustrates the data, not use the textbook "how to wash her brain out to voters". Probably partying.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38069	Dear colleague, I must warn you that you have not corrected the incorrect assumption. I don't think so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think you interpreted what your colleague wanted or didn't want to say. But okay. We have a breach of our rules of procedure. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38070	Here, before the breach of the Rules of Procedure, allow me the right to exercise my right to self-help. A colleague said we're brainwashing people. You've washed people's pockets, and for the brain, we'll be easy. A colleague injured Article 209(2) of the Rules of Procedure because he is also speaking Article 208 because, behind that institute, the correction of an incorrect quote is being misused and he is corrupting my exact quote. And that's why, and there's no such institute here. Therefore, he injured Article 209(2) and Article 208, but I mean, I suggest you be gentle with him because no punishment helps.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38071	My colleague, it seems to me that after these discussions of yours, we will have to go once more to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I see there will be a lot of imaginative additions and changes to make it all work out. Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Babic-Petrichevic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38072	Madam President, I appeal to Rule 214 of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague hurt his rules of procedure with her untruths. The Croatian Democratic Community has not washed and washed anyone's brains out because it wanted to and that it worked could not have done any part of what its party has done for 50 years. She washed Croatia and impoverished Croatia so her descendants here today try to impose what they have imposed for 50 years and worked for 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38073	Thank you very much. It seems to me that a break is necessary. I'm declaring a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38074	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the 2004 report on the work of the Ombudsman. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38075	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A report by the attorney general never gives a complex picture of the human rights situation in a country. Of course, in his report, the occupier's lawyer shows statistics and statistics on the citizens who appear to him as a complainant and the picture is necessarily fragmentary. The report does not say anything about the state of religious rights and freedoms, about freedom of the media, about all other aspects, about many aspects of human and civil rights. That is why this report should be promoted not only from the aspect of what it writes but also from the aspect of what is not in it this year, and there have been many previous years there have been. Unfortunately, in the public defender's reports, we have had opportunities to read about far more harsh human rights violations than is happening today and with this, it can be concluded that the human rights situation in Croatia is changing for the better every year. If someone as an external observer compared the human rights situation in Croatia 10 years ago and today, then perhaps you could conclude that it is two different countries, that it is not the same country at all. Let's remind ourselves, so a dozen years ago, maybe a little bit more, people were killed, they were disappearing, their homes were torn down, their houses burned down, secret services were stalking journalists, they were listening to the entire newsroom. Such a situation began to radically change in 2000 and is changing happily, until today. It's going better, it's going slow, but it's going better. This kind of thing, this kind of thing, in a report by the occupier's attorney today, is no longer available and we hope that they will not be in the future. If it happens today that secret services come out of the scope of their powers to conduct an unauthorized conversation with journalists then there is a scandal, then it is discussed in the Croatian Parliament, then it is discussed in public, then intervened by the President of the Republic, his predecessor the late president did not always react in this way, he had understanding of human rights violations by the secret services and in this sense we can be satisfied. However, the occupier today opened an important topic and received strong support from some clubs. I think that subject deserves a few words. It is his request to extend the vacancy of the Ombudsman to the judicial authority as well. The mere fact that as many as 40% of complaints are about the actions of the judicial authority. It seems alarming. It's the alarm bell. That's what we all have to worry about. The thing has actually become paradoxical. Fate power instead of being the protector of human rights has become the part of the state government that violates human rights to the greatest extent. It hinders the fulfillment of justice, and citizens expect the fulfillment of justice and rightly conclude that it is the state that has the responsibility to provide them with justice. The judiciary is therefore not the only, not the only, legitimate expectation of citizens. One of the dams is certainly politics, but citizens deal with politics easily, shifting it every four years. The second serious dam is the state administration, the clerks. The citizens are already a little harder to deal with, but it is therefore the executive authority that should control the state administration and make it effective and put it into the service of citizens. So it is somewhat under the control of citizens through the election of the executive government, through politics and the state administration at least indirectly. When it comes to courts, then we can conclude that this system is out of control. It is no wonder, then, that the president of the Association of Judges, Mr. Sesa, has strongly stood up against the initiative of the attorney general. His reaction was nervous, almost panicking. That's perfectly logical, because it'll get the judiciary's control when they're so much nicer. Why should the administrative court, for example, settle labour disputes as the law says, urgently, when it can solve them for five or six years without anything happening, that no one will answer for it. Why wouldn't the judge let a dozen criminal records go out of date? When it doesn't account for anyone. No one. And when a criminal record goes out of date, then there's been a huge injustice done to someone, because someone's committed a crime before that. In that criminal act, someone is damaged, and when the file goes into obsolescence by the judge, then the injured party suffers a terrible injustice. And we've got judges who've got a dozen and a dozen files that's gone into obsolescence, the penitentiary ones. Nothing to anyone. Why don't some judge make an inadmissible acquittal about whether or not someone prescribed it, master's work just two days before the absolute statute of limitations. Why not explain that it's a common practice for scientists to copy from each other. Why not do so when there are no consequences, and it was intended to determine whether the text "A" is identical to the text "B" and failed to do so within the time limit. Why wouldn't another judge, in light of the verdict for the Serb people's indictee, find the defendant guilty because his ancestors have been pushing the Croatian people for 400 years. Why don't you write something like that when he's still judging, and after that argument, he's judging the gentlemen. Judge! Why don't Judge Domić Paul Brač enroll in two people when he still receives the court's salary? He's getting a court salary today, and this month he's getting a court salary. No, she is suspended, but her salary remains, because the State Judiciary Council has not yet found time or reason for Judge Domic to be relieved of judicial duties. Why not transfer a judge of ten million euros from a bank account into the pocket of a man who was tried as a member of a criminal organization? Why don't the three judges of the high-level commercial court continue to please the parties in the proceedings? When they're sure the State's Attorney's office will refuse criminal charges against them like she did. The system, gentlemen, the system of justice cannot repair itself. We trusted it, but it turned out he couldn't do it. And he's quite right as the civil defender when he says, "In the Croatian judicial body, there is not enough ability and strength to make the necessary changes, and often the Czech interests are stronger than the social ones." On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice has not at least been ready to take the necessary control until now, probably fearing and objecting to compromise judicial independence and determine the rule of law over the court. Such a situation in the nature of things affects the weaker, unprotected powers and money, because it suits the biases and corruption of all kinds, from friendly services to well-paid abuses. The dioba of the authorities includes mutual cooperation and mutual verification of the authorities' holders. Some kind of parliamentary control not only is it possible, it is necessary. The example is Finland, Slovenia, Sweden, Poland. So let's not close our colleagues and fellow eyes in front of this problem, which is rightly being warned by the Attorney General. Let's just say it's open. The judiciary itself cannot resolve it, the minister, the minister of justice, the government itself cannot resolve it. We can do it. Not only can we make a decision, we will, we will. We allow the vacancy attorney to intervene because of the length of the proceedings or the obvious abuse of jurisdiction in the courts. Let us task our Committee on the Constitution to prepare changes to the law and task the Government to finally double the budget rebalancing of the Ombudsman's resources so that his office can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38076	Thank you very much. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38077	Mr. President, I quote Mr. Stazic as saying: "The former president," I suppose he thinks of President Tudjman, "has had an understanding of human rights violations." Mr. Representative, it is modern to end history in connection with Mr. President Tudjman, but you can't untrue in this high and honorable House try to correct history. President Tudjman turned one system in which human rights were trampled and not only human rights, but also people and human lives into a democracy where human rights and respect for human rights stood out as the highest value in both word and deed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38078	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38079	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General, gentlemen of the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I will personally join, of course, those who have expressed all praise for this very professional report, but in addition to the profession that is seen from it, I would like to congratulate Mr. Ombudsman on both personal courage and professional courage, and even civil courage to present everything he sees as a problem and as negative phenomena in our society, regardless of the segments where they are created, and all of this should serve us exclusively for one reason, as a warning that in certain places in the state administration or in certain ministries there is something wrong and that there should be, of course, an improvement in the efficiency of work, and all with the goal of achieving one of the only rights of all the human rights that we have heard here today, they should exercise their right to consume Croatian laws, their right to justice and justice. So this is what is fundamental to what all Croatian government-led institutions and we, as part of the legislative authorities, need to enable our citizens. What we cannot therefore give up here is compassion, so with all those who have exhausted all the possibilities of the legal system have been forced to address the public defender and perhaps even from all this we see that the money so far is too little for the activity that Mr. Attorney wants to improve and carry out. Even that money was not a problem, but it was a problem that could not therefore affect certain bodies, and we all found that the biggest problem with the judiciary, or the judiciary, was what should be worrying us. I have been very actively involved in the work of the Committee on Human Rights and the National Minorities and the Committee on Justice, which I am a member of and one conclusion that I do not think will cause a rebellion to say so by the judicial authorities, nor does this mean the involvement of the legislative authority in the judicial authority is that it is recommended that the Committee on Justice consider the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the judicial authority with only one goal, which is to achieve public work and improve the effectiveness of its work. Because what needs to be established here is not how it's being tried, why it's being tried, but whether it's being tried at all, out of what turns out not to be tried at all. So, if one object is to say so, I'm not a lawyer, so let me be allowed if I don't use a professional term, and it doesn't matter, so not all citizens who feel that ineffectiveness on their backs are lawyers. So if an object lies in some drawers for ten years, and I personally know such a few, so also as the head of the municipality and the president of the executive council where, in the role of the state that seeks its rights, I was in this dispute of the judiciary so involved and as a witness and in different ways witnesses that are not yet finished, then I wonder in which way those who do not know less, have less money, have less to say so, and in the end if we all have to have a relationship I already said, then the connection is irrelevant, because in that inflation connection therefore even the system can't improve. So, the only thing that has to be for us as agents here is the effort to correct these mistakes. I'm going to say the same without paying attention as Mr. Attorney-General kept writing this report on what will happen to him personally, whether someone will have any objections, so I'm going to say that in a few instances or institutions, here in some ministries you come across the wonders of the answers given to you by this guy. When you ask why some object isn't finished, then you say 500 of us are just doing five, so we can't get there. Give those who don't work at all. But right now, it's not about the others. You handle the case. Or I'll sue you in the end the minister is responsible for all this. The minister has no idea what a tenth officer or a fifteenth officer is telling him. So, she tells you so then he'll fire us there five so again I don't know any 495 incompetents. Unfortunately, I must say now, regardless of the change in power, the bureaucratic apparatus is like an angel with no idea how many heads. So, this apparatus also results in a number of problems for people who are described as individual cases in this report, but point to a general phenomenon, and the general phenomenon is that, therefore, citizens do differ by something. It therefore does not show their comprehensive right to speed up proceedings, to a fair procedure and to comply with the legal requirements at a specified time. And for this reason, I hope that in this time that we are about to read and debate in this report, by the next year when we will have a report again, there will be a shift in the organisation of both the judicial authorities and the state administration, and that our citizens will feel that what this government does both in the organisation and in the processing of officials and in the processing of cases is actively supported and that citizens will be able to appreciate it. Therefore, all the work of the Advocates should be essentially detecting weak points, and us as representatives and government, correcting these weak points and improving the entire system of government's tri-division. So I repeat, I am going back to the time when the County House was still a small one,... so the County House still had a little more power in selecting judges and appointments than this one-home Croatian Parliament does now. And because of that, controlling the judiciary in terms of doing business does not mean hitting on its independence, because we respect that trio of authorities, but in some countries it is both in Western Europe and close to us and we have other solutions. So I think and suggest that the Parliament strengthens its role as control of the judicial authority. And that's what might help solve part of this problem, not everyone, of course. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38080	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. He's gone. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38081	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, Attorney General, with his associates. So I will begin my debate by quoting one of the views or views of the Committee on Justice, which was set out in the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 as of 24 May 2005. In fact, the report in question literally states, quote. Taking into account the constitutional provision of the trode, the members of the board agree that no form of control of the judicial authority is carried out, I repeat, no form of control of the judicial authority, and therefore any attempt to warn the ineffectiveness of the work of the courts may be considered a breach of guaranteed independence and independence of the judiciary. It's a finished quote. This position is undoubtedly the result of an analysis of the Ombudsman’s report in particular in the part of the examination of the problem of the work of the courts or the judicial authorities and its ineffectiveness in terms of a solution to the case or the long-term resolution of concrete court proceedings. This problem is evident and it appears in such reports year after year and I would dare say year after year it is increasingly stressed as a problem. Indeed, the Ombudsman is not authorised or competent to protect the right of citizens in court proceedings on the one hand. But on the other hand, a large number of citizens address him with concrete complaints about the work of the courts, and most of all because of the length of court proceedings. On the one hand, the Ombudsman’s dissuade over these issues is repeatedly stressed, and in spite of all the efforts, the number of complaints is not reduced but increased. Obviously, in this way, the Croatian judiciary is becoming a bit of a problem, or a problem with the human rights aspect in terms of the public defender's obvious or findings, because there is indeed no greater injustice than late justice. And the problem, and perhaps even more devastating, is actually the general belief of citizens that within the existing system, therefore the system of justice, courts, the State Judiciary Council and the Ministry of Justice cannot be resolved or the problems of long-term proceedings cannot be solved and no real answer can be received to concrete complaints from citizens. It should be agreed that the expectations that the judiciary will function well if the control and control of the work of judges is established predominantly, I would say exclusively within the system itself did not prove effective in the exposed sense. In the Croatian Court Corps these assessments also appeared, there is not enough strength for root and necessary changes, and often not some surprise is just the Czech people's view of the mentioned problem. However, if we now return briefly to the introductory quote, it is undeniable that we are in the constitutional and legal area of regulation of the government's tridivision, as discussed in Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, the state authority is based on the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters. But it is limited by a constitutionally guaranteed right to local and regional self-government. However, the principle of government division includes forms and mutual cooperation and mutual checks by the institution governed by the Constitution and the law. Therefore, the purpose of the principle of government division is not the organisational and functional separation of the three core branches of government which would then, in order to often misread the action independently of each other. Because such separation is not only impossible to implement, but such an attempt would affect the unity of the legal system and the effectiveness of the government itself. Indeed, the purpose of the application of the principle of government division is to organise mutual verification and balance between the holders of the highest state functions, and the same constitutional and legal institute has two dimensions, that is to say, a horizontal dimension, where relations between legislative, executive and judicial authorities are regulated, but also vertical dimensions of the relationship between the central government and local self-government established on the one hand by the constitutional division of authorities, and on the other hand by the Constitution guaranteed the right to local self-government. It is very important here to stress that such a debate of constitutional provisions does not prejudice the independence and independence of the judicial authority because in the extreme line according to the explicit provision of Article 115. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is indeed independent and independent. However, this independence and independence do not, in any way, touch the mutual forms of cooperation and mutual verification of the holder of the authority, because the established relationship does not apply in any form or should relate to decision-making in concrete matters. The issue of court decisions, the reasons for their adoption and everything else related to a specific jurisdiction should absolutely be placed in the sphere of both formal and real independence and independence of the judiciary and the branch of the government. In a consistent discussion of these constitutional principles, of course, the special position of the Constitutional Court should be highlighted, as constitutional exceptions which are not classified in any of the three forms of state authority and where it is actually a kind of intergovernmental authority that oversees both legislative and executive and judicial power. Furthermore, after the analysis of the report itself, it is certainly necessary to initiate processes that will introduce order and legal equality and administrative and judicial resolution, as those which must be based primarily on order, responsibilities, professionalism and clear predictability criteria in terms of time limits and how to handle specific legal matters. And let me get this straight. The strict compliance with the material and procedural rules, as well as the control in the exposed sense of work and administrative officers and judges, must prevent them too often, and as stated in the report and in fact confirmed, the arbitral treatment is rarely in favour of the stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38082	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38083	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General. My colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, it would be limited to two key issues related to the Ombudsman's report. It is clear that there is a strong agreement that the report points to systematic rooted problems. The members of the Justice Committee supported the proposals of the Ombudsman in the direction of the staff team and the material strengthening of the offices in order to ensure, in due course, human and material conditions for the exercise of constitutional powers of the Ombudsman. It has been assessed inadmissible to fund the work of a civil defender on the ground by means of international donors. It is therefore good that the Committee on War Veterans has adopted a proposal for a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly which would oblige the Parliament to provide the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the necessary financial resources for the human, material and spatial strengthening of the Ombudsman's Office according to the plan proposed in this report. This is a chronic problem and should certainly support this conclusion and stress the exceptional importance of a sufficient budget for the tour of the counties so that it does not happen, for example this year, that the Ombudsman could not have been available to the same extent in all the counties, which brings the citizens back into an unequal position. It is also necessary to further inform the Office. It is certainly necessary to support the request for an increase in the budget of the Ombudsman's Office, which was proposed in the 2004 Report. It is also good that after the debate was held, the Committee on Justice proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: It is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia consider the opinions, examples and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as the proposals and recommendations of the Ombudsman contained in the report in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Members of the War Veterans Committee supported the measures proposed by the Ombudsman to speed up the resolution of administrative procedures and not to quote further, cited a number of reasons why this is necessary. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health has also highlighted this chronic structural problem in particular and said that the fact that the opinion of the Committee members that the protection of human rights, i.e. the protection of constitutional and legal rights of citizens, is insufficient in procedures before the state administration and bodies with public powers. In the work of the state administration and bodies with public authority, there is no adequate monitoring of the effectiveness of the work and no call for liability for non-execution of jobs. They therefore propose that appropriate personnel, organisational and other measures should be taken, to identify the reasons for unscheduled work and to establish a system that will monitor the number of cases resolved, the time limits in which they are resolved, the ways of resolution, etc. We must therefore support and require the implementation of the proposed measures related to the acceleration of administrative procedures, and therefore we must also support the conclusion of the War Veterans Committee and propose to further strengthen instead of "recommended to the Government" it would be better to say "the government is obliged to draw up an action plan on the basis of the proposed measures to speed up and resolve administrative procedures to speed up the resolution of these procedures", etc. It's a chronic structural problem that's being properly transferred year after year, and in reality nothing changes. It's pretty clear what to do. All key measures of the revision through disciplinary measures, monitoring and system improvements are listed in only one sentence of the Committee's report on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the question of why nothing significant is then taken. I must stress that the political will to protect human rights is only manifested when the government really takes into account the opinions, objections and recommendations given in the Ombudsman's report, otherwise it will only be possible to conclude that the government cares about a positive image, not real problems and the protection of human rights of all citizens. And in the end, one criticism. This was presented this morning in a debate on page 135 Reports we have a series of statistics on the comparative planned expenditures for 2005 of related institutions where a series of expenditures are being discussed for the Office of the Public Attorney, the Ombudsman for Children and the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. It seems to me that this should not have been included in this report at all because of the 2004 Report, and here is the data for this year, but there is a more important reason. There's a selective approach here. It is true that the attorneys had more budgets for official travel, for promotional and information services, and especially for intellectual services, but it does not speak of a real budget for these institutions, because when we are familiar with the entire budget then we know that for the Ombudsman, for the public defender the budget is much greater, that there are many more people in that office, that the number of salaries is higher, that the greater coefficients and ultimately all these proposals are addressed to the ministry and that usually responds positively if funds are sought for certain activities. I would therefore not agree that this office has been abandoned or would agree with what counterpart Cain said this morning, or that the two attorneys' offices should be put in the same office as the Attorney General's Office. I think these are different institutions and they need to stay completely independent of each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38084	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rade Ivas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38085	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed staff attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament which protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. The Advocate General shall consider individual cases of endangerment of the rights of citizens who have been committed by the authorities of the State administration, bodies with public authority or employees of those bodies in the course of carrying out their tasks, if they claim that it is a violation of the rights with the elements of the criminal offence, offence or breach of labour discipline, may also propose the initiation of appropriate proceedings. This report by the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's report for children and lawyers for gender equality points to all the infirmities of the Croatian Assembly's authority. On the one hand, the State Administration's authority, on the basis of a request by the Ombudsman, does not respond to more than 500 cases, on the other hand, the Ombudsman does not have the authority to protect the rights of citizens in court proceedings. On these issues, the Ombudsman is speaking in his report. He warns, I quote, "to the abandonment of the state administration, among other things, because there is no record of dealing with the complaints of citizens, but because of the disorderly conduct of complaints". It also points out that "the irresponsibility and execution for social morality and cohesion, the division of the weak and powerless before the state administration and courts, and therefore it is necessary to introduce order, legal equality in administrative and judicial resolution, including free legal and other assistance to the weak and ignorant". The state right now has an obligation to put order in the administration and the judiciary in a way that functions equally towards everyone. Therefore, respect for material and procedural regulations and control of the work of administration, administrative officials, judges must prevent their often arbitrarily and arbitrary conduct. Although the Ombudsman is not protecting citizens' rights in the report, we see from the report that a large number of citizens are addressing the Ombudsman with complaints. This suggests the problem of the Croatian judiciary, that within the existing system, meaning the judiciary, the State Judiciary Council, the Ministry of Justice cannot solve the problems of long-term proceedings before courts or citizens can get answers to their complaints. Expecting that the courts will function well and that the supervision of their work and the work of the judges will be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the courts is shown to be ineffective. These problems have also been faced by many European countries, and they have therefore entrusted their lawyers with the rights and protection of citizens when they are injured or threatened by the work of judges. These powers are different, but we can generally raise them on the right to gain insight into the court's record, the powers of warning, the proposals, the recommendations both to courts and state bodies that adopt regulations and measures in relation to this, but also to proposals for strict procedures. Therefore, it is also worth the initiative, and it is also worth the attention of this initiative to amend the Law on the Ombudsman so as to extend its jurisdiction to the control of the courts. This would not be a precedent, in fact, the team of our occupier would bring lawyers closer to other European countries. As far as this year's Report is concerned, we can say that the quality of the report has been made, that it has been used in a methodology and that specific examples show a clear picture of the problem faced by the Ombudsman. The report highlights the problem of certain areas with proposals for measures which significantly distinguishes it from earlier reports by the ombudsmans. As in previous years, the report also states that intervention by the civil society attorneys is most often required in cases of violations of human rights caused by long-term judicial and administrative proceedings, as well as ignoring national and international legal order norms on property integrity. But for the first time since the defense attorneys started, we can say that in this year, there has been a fall in appeal to the attorney general. Last year, citizens requested the intervention of the occupier 2 thousand 011 times, and a year earlier in 2,000 389 cases, which is a drop by 16%. I think this fall is conditioned by a reduction in the number of counties, a tour of the number of counties. Namely, 5 counties were visited in 2004, while a year earlier, a public defender visited 9 counties and mainly those counties located in the area of special state care. The number of complaints by Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War has also been reduced in 2004 by about 36%, indicating that certain status problems of Croatian defenders have almost resolved. But the biggest complaints this year came out of pensioners and pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of the delays in their payments. The Croatian Ombudsman's institution has been affirmed in Croatia over time as a few institutions, but for various reasons, it seems that there is a danger that part of this affirmation will be dissolved. This can contribute to difficulties in the material conditions of business, a poor financial situation that makes it impossible for professionals to be hired as needed. Bad accommodation in a residential building. That is why I support the proposal of the Ombudsman in the direction of the personnel team and the material strengthening of the office in order to ensure, in due course, human and material conditions for the exercise of constitutional powers of the Ombudsman. I also find it inadmissible that the work of the civil defender on the ground, the tour of the county, the financing of international donations, as well as the purchase of computers, office equipment, and professional literature. In the end, I can say that the report is made of quality, that it can be read from the scale of work, problems, but also suggestions on how to solve it. That's why I'm going to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38086	Thank you very much. Replica, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38087	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has said this report is far more quality than the previous reports. It's not like that for us at the HSP Club. Namely, this report does not show any greater efficiency of the Ombudsman in the last report compared to last year, compared to the year before and the whole period. Namely, all these problems that have been presented and in this report have been present for years. They have been present for years and every year happens in this assembly when such a report is considered that all this is said again, and nothing is systematically done. Therefore, quality will be for us once the occupier has greater efficiency. And when he has more efficiency, he'll have when the ministers start answering. And today, Mr. President of the Parliament, there is no one from the government and no one from the ministers, and you have a page here at the beginning that all ministers are responding. 20% of the cases are criminal, no response from the ministers. Therefore, this is only proof that the Ministers, the Government and the Underestimation of this Croatian Assembly and the Croatian Ombudsman himself, who is the authority of the Croatian Parliament. So, in this case, he's signing up like you, President of the Parliament, so he has your authority. Still, a colleague said there was no problem with the defense attorney. Come to a colleague at the HSP Club and you'll see the day-to-day calls from the defender. I spoke today on behalf of the HSP Club case 5 families from Split who received apartments from the Ministry of Defence. These are all Croatian military disabled. Now they are disembarked, neither is the Ministry of Defense answerable to them, nor is the Ministry of Defense replying to them. That kind of problem is getting more and more and more and it's not really. I wish it were such a situation if it wasn't a problem, but unfortunately it does. There are defenders calling and that's why they're getting that part of the pension difference. Normally, it's not secured in the budget. The problem is really big and let's not think it's something wonderful and wonderful. In fact, the situation and the situation are getting worse and worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38088	Thank you very much. Replication response, esteemed representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38089	Your Honor. Dear counterpart Kovacevic, in his replica, part of his replica, I can accept, but this report, unlike the previous report, has one more quality, which is that he accurately stresses the problems of certain areas and that he is giving steps to address these problems. That's not what we've had in the public defender's reports so far. Secondly, the fact is that the report shows that 26% of the requirements in the field of status problems of Croatian defenders, I did not say that the problems of Croatian defenders are solved, there are, will be many more, but according to the report there are fewer in this year, and this is certainly the result of the reduction of these problems, and that the problems of the victims of the Homeland War, the participants of the Homeland War will still be.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38090	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38091	Dear Mr. President, Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman is presenting a one-year report on his work to the Croatian Parliament, respecting and the degree of constitutional legal rights of citizens in the past year. As every year and this year, we have received a neat, transparent one-year report on the work of the attorney general, according to methodology as prescribed in the Ombudsman's office. However, what makes this report special and different from the previous one is the fact that the term of office of the Ombudsman expired in June 2004 and to the deputies at the end of November 2004, so the newly elected Ombudsman who submitted the report entered into office in early December and spent one month at work, in the last year, it is not surprising that this report is a statistical review of cases that do not contain a full picture of the state and degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, but a review of the most numerous occurrences of human rights violations and their causes. What seems important to me to point out from the debate we had last year on a report by the Ombudsman, which highlights the problems faced by the public defender in his work, in fact almost that all the conclusions of the debate with all the parliamentary committees when it comes to the problems encountered by the office of the attorney general in his work, which is space, material resources, staff, office day by county to be closer to the citizens, so we could repeat ourselves entirely and that means that, of all these conclusions from last year, little has been realized. I would especially like to refer to that part of the 2004 report that I found not well done in the past year and refers to the county visits, as in 2003 the Ombudsman visited 10 counties and in 2004. 5 and that is why the number of newly admitted objects is reduced. The report shows that during his visit to my county, Split-Dalmatia visited almost all the cities but not the areas occupied in the Homeland War, namely, it should be known that only two local self-government units were areas of special state concern in Split-Dalmatia County, which was occupied by the town of Vrlika and the municipality of Hrvatska and astonished that the public defender did not find it properly I think it would be expected that they were units of local self-government in the area of the county that will first visit, but probably, there is important what is the state of human and other rights of citizens, because the problems are certainly much bigger than in other parts of our county. NO, it's probably the last year of his term of office, so he wasn't so thorough anymore. What I believe is not so good that unlike some, I think it is not good for the OSCE to finance or co-finance the work of the Ombudsman in the tour of the county, because he is the authority of this Assembly and means we should give him such tasks as will be provided in the budget so that he can do the job that we expect him to carry out, therefore, no co-financing from any OSCE or any other donor because actually, the public defender is not an NGO to use such funds but from this Assembly we are obliged to provide the funds so that he can do what this Assembly and the society expects him to do. What makes the report different from these reports so far is a critical reference to the work of the judiciary and courts because it is obvious that many constitutional and legal rights of citizens are at risk of long-term court proceedings. It is known that the Ombudsman does not protect citizens' rights in court proceedings, so it is important that he pointed out the problems of the citizens and that, in fact, as a Assembly and as a society, we must acknowledge that we do not have mechanisms of control over the judiciary and the judiciary, and all of this hides behind the apprehension of the independence of the judicial authorities, it seems to me that the Ombudsman in his report has touched the problem from which they all detest and there are evidence that there are huge problems in the judiciary and the judiciary and there are no influence and control in this House since the abolition of the County House. So here's those who have abolished the County House, it doesn't matter they've abolished much more important things, but now we see how this House still had some kind of function. The Ombudsman also suggests some control solutions and impact on the work of the courts that exist in other countries, without prejudice to the government’s trinition or independence, that is to say, a step in the Ombudsman’s report, regardless of the risk of being called to interfere with the work of the judicial and judicial authorities. However, the fact is that the inefficient judiciary endangers the constitutional and legal rights of citizens and that is why I think it is good that the lawyer has spoken this way. Part of the report on the return of property, reconstruction and housing which says that from 1,000 more busy houses to summer this year will be returned to the owners of 750, I've got a lot of good ones. What is not clear to me is a large number of housing claims from former tenants, and it is said to be now 8,000 demands. That number is too large for me, and 2500 demands out of the field of special state concern. This raises a number of questions because this applies only to illegally-treated tenant rights holders, or to all those who have lost housing rights in the legal procedure. I think this is a very complex question and I think that this question is actually to start solving it in this House should maintain a special point that would talk about tenant rights holders who they are, so that they don't come in a mistake so that some rewards, especially if they're left without housing rights under the law, and I know hundreds who lived in cities and who at the invitation of some war trumpets went on the other side of the barricade. I think it really should be one of the specific points that this House should discuss before any resolutions arise based on, therefore, on the loss of household rights. And finally, I would really like to accept the proposal for a programme to strengthen the institution of the occupier in three years, as it has been stated, because the occupier has gained prominence among the people and needs to be brought closer to the citizens. So, my opinion is that finally Croatia should come closer by number at least means if Slovenia has 35 people in the Office of the Public Prosecutor and Croatia from 15 to 32. I don't think that's too much, that it would be enough and that citizens who have already gotten used to reputation and I think that public defenders around the county have done some good things, they've gained citizens' trust. Of course I will accept this report, but here I am also betting that in the budget for the following year, so that we do not just stay in the conclusions but that we finally see and extend this Office of the Ombudsman to the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38092	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go. Excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38093	Speaking of visits to the counties or individual settlements in the provinces of counterpart Rebic literally said the last year of office was clearly on Mr Klaric. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] He wasn't so thorough in these tours and his work. It seems to me on one side that this is incorrect because Mr. Klaric is not here and you have finally determined yourself either during your debate that Mr. Klaric and then the current Office of the Public Attorney first in his work and action is limited both financially and spatially. And very often, and we also learned this during today's debate and yesterday when we talked about the right to access information by silent administration. Therefore, at the very least it is incorrect then to say that Mr. Klaric worked incorrectly or unfoundedly because we remember every government in some way "fearing" his reports because he apparently saw the state of the state as real as it is, perhaps even much more beautiful than it really is. There's one last thing I need to tell you. You said that even those who abolished the County House had abolished other things. Your majority can have no problem if they want the County Home back, so I hope you'll do it, or it's just your wish that's nothing to do with your party's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38094	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38095	Okay. So, I think that I have just apostrophe in the tour of the Split-Dalmatia County. In fact, I began to have a public defender go around and be in all the major cities of Split-Dalmatia County and not come into the only two local self-government units that were occupied in the Homeland War, which have a lot of problems. So, then I think that in the last year of his term, he's either relaxed or I'm not attached to the funds. I don't think it's connected to the funds. So he was actually supposed to enter the county precisely in that war most affected parts so that he would then be at the centre of the county in Split, in Kaštel, Solin, Sinj, etc. In that sense. And as for the suspension of the County House, I don't think I said anything new if I told you what your party had abolished. But then, what does it matter? What's important is that I'm talking about abolishing the County House said that that's when every influence of this House stopped, every control of the judicial judicial authority. Neither did yours. Here, you were four years old. I think you've gone so far as to think that we don't really have any, and the consequence of that is actually four years of your rule that we're the full power of judgment and the work of the courts of the long-term process in courts and, of course, the violation of civil rights and freedoms by the Constitution guaranteed by you has grown the most and these are the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38096	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38097	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Attorney General, gentlemen of the deputy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say that the report submitted by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Assembly includes legal areas and an analysis of complaints against certain irregularities in the work of the courts and institutions and long-term long-term in the conduct of proceedings as well as shortcomings in the work of the state administration and bodies with public authority, and the infinity in the resolution of administrative procedures resulting in the fact that the overall bureaucratic apparatus is difficult to change its working habits and practices to indicate the need to take action against the responsibility and sanctioning of all who further suffocating the resolution of the accumulated cases, and the non-implementing of the legitimate solutions or non-compliance of legal deadlines in court, audit and other proceedings. The independence of the judiciary does not mean that there is no deviation from the law or bias in interpreting legal provisions and that it is necessary to take certain measures and applications against those who, visibly due to bias or possible ignorance, deprive the most vulnerable and the poorest. The rights of disfellowshipped, neglected, and deceived must surely be experienced through the public defendership of their satisfaction, for they are the hardest in today’s society to cope. However, of all the topics discussed in the report and all segments that are clearly and clearly presented, I will also refer to Croatian defenders and members of their families and victims of the Homeland War, which clearly and unequivocally in this one aspect example, are the procedures for recognising the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and is the most common reason for addressing your office the long-term nature of the proceedings. Namely, it must be observed that even during the same four - year period, associations came from the Homeland War, a series of complaints, complaints and requests for the salvation of those people who, through a certain four - year period, had experienced a total depravity, who in their accumulated difficulties many times and raised their hands on their own life and on their families' lives because they had not found opportunities for a decent life, let alone their rights guaranteed by law. I must say that what I have said is that the bureaucratic apparatus is holding back the accumulated problems and their resolution in this report of yours unequivocally speaking about what you have taken into account in your legal powers as a public defender and you have sought to hasten the case and the insight that has come to you, and it is clearly evident that Article 131(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders is actually considered more and unnecessary in three months, and I will state the article of this law which speaks if no appeal has been made against the first-degree body which is subject to the review and the audit has not been carried out within three months of the second-degree body being adopted the subject is deemed to have been audited and that the agreement on the solution has been reached today. This is a clear and ambiguous legislative provision that needs to be respected and therefore a number of cases would have been resolved and adopted second-degree solutions and people would have exercised their rights which were not possible in this case. But it wasn't possible for one reason that some official at the Department of Defense gave her the right not to respond and not deliver for 2000 a form for... pay, and so this unfortunate man who was listed here only by initials remained disfigured as well as in a number of other cases where you clearly explain what happened to civil servants and tenants, by red tape that wasn't legally sanctioned by anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, their ministers or their heads of office or any of their superiors or as they were called are probably also necessary to ours, your recommendation or to the application of the person who was damaged by their actions to give them a warning once, twice, and the third time to fire them. And when it comes to civil servants and tenants who do not do their duties because they have learned probably from the system to the system, from the authorities to the authorities they come, do two items a day and handle their jobs nicely private or friendly, and so they remain the most endangered layers without legal protection and without making a solution or the needs for them in offices, institutions and administrations. I'll look back a little bit on what's called a county tour. It is evident that my county, too, is covered by Virovito-Podravska. And I can say that there are certain things that also warn about the rights of both local and county authorities. Namely, I would like to take a look at the need to get acquainted with the mayors, their associates, the mayors and the municipal chiefs, but be assured that they will never present a real situation because of their political commitment and because of their authority currently in that county or municipality, they are never sincere to you or to their citizens in the presentation of the current state. I did not find that it was stated here that Virovitica-Podravska County is the second in terms of development, under the underdevelopment of the Republic of Croatia, that with the accumulated difficulties and that with the unemployment of 10 thousand and 500 unemployed, one of the disasters experienced in its territory and that it is necessary, the mayor did not boast that even certain mayors and mayors had made it clear what was most bothering them and how further resolution should be made. Citizens are actually the most honest in their statements, aspirations and demands, and it takes many times to visit the county to listen only to them and only to extract from them what is the greatest pain and anxiety in the areas of regional and local self-government in order to know how to take certain measures for further progress and for further improvement or for the real help that is most necessary in that population that actually lives most vulnerable. So I have to say that this reduction or increase in the number of items from the total, can be ambiguous and may be about the rights of Croatian defenders and half of this figure, which is a reduced number, and that is some progress but more mass disenfranchised cries for law and who knows when they will welcome it. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office works according to its own, ministry officials by their own, in another ministry by its own, and it is really difficult for those who do not have a personal phone to help him, to come to justice, wandering around and breaking the doors of all the offices eventually comes to you who cannot reach all those who have actually lost their rights. We hope that through both your activity and through the activities of everyone else and through the enforcing of the bureaucratic apparatus we will get to the point where there will be 70% less in your office of application and seeking help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38098	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. It's all right, dear colleague Doric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38099	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, allow me to say hello to Mr. Attorney General and his associates, to thank them for a very high-quality report and to apologize to you for having to sit here all day and listen to this debate going in the wrong direction for me. Namely, it's not just the case with your report, it's the case with almost every report, and that's why my application is next. We colleagues and colleagues in truth need 90% of the time in reviewing the report to devote not to problems, not to the history of these problems, here we have even now expanded to the history of the Parliament but to how to help people, in this case to the Ombudsman to work more efficiently and better. Secondly, I think that we can also try to extract what Mr. Djakic has now said nicely that from their report we should ask them if they can locate them according to certain state or county bodies and people where these problems are piled up, where the obstructions are, so that we know to withdraw, clearly and suggest certain consequences towards these people. That's the point, it should be the point of this debate. I would also like to emphasise that I am very sorry that we did not get the government's testimony, because if we had it, we would probably have a proposal for the measures they want to take to assist in the work of the institution of the attorney general, and then we could in truth discuss what I just said about methods, concrete methods, how to help the ombudsman. Whether it's just financial or other organisational forms. I would say one more thing, I am sorry that there are really no representatives of the Government here, because the government is probably through our permanent mission to the Council of Europe, and the Council of Europe materials related to this issue and proposals and recommendations from the Council of Europe not only to us but also to all the full members of the Council of Europe, and these proposals are very valuable to me and we should have discussed them today with Mr Malcic, see what he thinks of them and clearly try to find the most qualitative solutions. For this reason, let me briefly just mention six basic conclusions and ultimately this recommendation, which is crucial by the Council of Europe, and I will ask Mr Malcic that, in his final address, what he thinks about the proposal. First of all, the Council of Europe concluded with satisfaction that the institution of the Advocate General is... has revived in the vast majority of the Member States of the Council of Europe, including Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the number of cases citizens are addressing... in constant growth which is something different from ours, but we also heard a possible explanation of why it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in other countries as well as the European Union countries, there is a growing almost geometric number of applications according to... Thirdly, there is an increasing efficiency, efficiency in addressing citizens' problems through the work of the attorney generals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is what the Council of Europe finds very clear. Fourthly, because of specific problems and issues within individual countries, they are sometimes decided, and this is the case with the Republic of Croatia to establish an institution of "ombutsman" for children, gender equality and so on and so forth that is also welcomed. However, there is something else in this debate that has been particularly underlined, and I would like to ask your colleagues and colleagues for some attention. There have been decentralisation in some countries, I would say or dislocation of the office. It's not just the capital's office, it's the regions of those countries. Here Italy is a good example where regional "ombutsmans" were introduced. Why regional? To be as easily accessible as possible to the citizens of those countries. So it is a recommendation from the Congress of the Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe to all Member States to seek to introduce the institution of the regional "ombutsman". So regional offices. In particular, it is asked and prayed to the regional authorities of us, therefore, the county self-government and the city centres in these regions to engage in finding space for the work of the ombutsman that when he comes to the field he has a place to receive citizens, not to increase your costs, but to participate in this local and regional self-government and to help clear cities, the counties to inform their citizens that they can turn to these and those days, the office and where the ombutsman or his associates will be present. So I would very much like to see if you too think that in this way we Parliamentarians in their counties could ask for help from regional and local self-government, the county community, the alliance of cities that our parliamentary Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government would also be involved with such a single request because I think these proposals, and the Council of Europe initiatives are certainly very valuable and that we should not bypass them, but today would be very convenient to discuss with them. Namely, to discuss them with both you and the representatives of the government who are unfortunately not here. I would just like to say in the end that I am very glad that I heard from my HDZ colleagues that they will support as a parliamentary majority this report. I hope then that it will clearly accept and help to address individual issues mentioned here in terms of improving the work, the institutions of the occupier will also be resolved as soon as possible because this is a key issue at this point. If we really have most people in this direction when we accept the budget, when we accept certain government initiatives, it's very important. I personally feel very uncomfortable, colleagues and colleagues very uncomfortable when the Norwegian Government helps the institutions of the ombutsman in Croatia, so indirectly, what helps? They help human rights by considering that we are not engaged enough in this area. I would prefer the Norwegian government to engage in technological recovery and other investments, and less in protecting human rights when it comes to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38100	Thank you, dear colleague Doric. It's time for a respected colleague of the Koreans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General. So every year, when we have a report on the work of the attorney general, it was not in any way disputed whether the parliamentary majority, anyone on the job, would give support to the report by the attorney general or not? But what is more important in all of this is what are really human rights in the Republic of Croatia? And we can admit to ourselves that human rights are more and more protected every year. This is not seen with, we can talk about the number of cases, but the number of cases does not mean that legal human rights are not relatively well and properly protected. But what's really going on in the field is that we call it in our counties and cities it's something else entirely. However, in order for the attorney general to be far more effective than he is, I will rely on what my colleague Doric said, the real possibility that the Office of the Attorney General has. Are we all really here to allow the Attorney General's Office on one side to work properly and in quality or not? We've been declaring it all the time. However, I reiterate the fact that this report also shows that the Office of the Public Prosecutor as the authority of the Croatian Parliament simply works in inadequate conditions. Financial, personnel and spatial. And we can, I ask ourselves and you all a question: do we really want to help? Because if any, we all advocate and swear before Europe and ourselves in human rights and in their protection, however, when the budget comes, and there have been warnings regarding the work of the attorney general, I was one of those who warned about it, but most have the responsibility to make it possible for the better, better work of the attorney general. Any competition should not be created between the Advocate General or the Advocate General for Gender Equality or for the Equality of Children. They're all in need of this society. But let's at least try to give them equal conditions of action. That's why I will personally advocate accepting this report. It means that budget rebalancing will also provide money for the next year, but also for the one that is current. To make these conditions much better and better. I don't doubt that both individual counties and cities as county headquarters will find funds even though they are, we must stress that in a rather difficult financial situation right now because the budgets don't fill up as well as the state's, but they will still find ways to help. However, what I would like to see, perhaps from this debate, remains clear to all of us. Why can't a public defender often act in a better way than those that we can say are objective? There aren't enough people, there's no space, there's no personnel, but yesterday there was a debate in this high house about the right to access information. If a police attorney is to wait a few years to get information from individual authorities, then we can ask ourselves what it looks like to a common, small man? He doesn't just have a chance to get information or get information that they are, what life means to him. It is often not possible to reach a person in a particular ministry or body of the state administration who should and should be obliged to provide that information. So one of the things that is still the cancer of the early Croatian society is the silence of the administration. On the other hand, I personally believe that the legal framework should also be amended and that it is possible for the Ombudsman to initiate according to, according to the Croatian Parliament, whose authority is the authority with changes to certain laws. In the silence of the administration you have a lot of cases especially now that these collapses of construction facilities on the Adriatic are taking place that because of the silence of the administration, someone can crash the object for which they regularly sought papers or often won and something changes, but one shuts down the other, it collapses. Isn't that how human rights are threatened because simply someone is deliberately or intentionally silent or causing damage to a person as a citizen? On the other hand, I'm going to point out one problem, and I'm going to pray, maybe in the final reckoning, the attorney general will say something about it because people who have problems appeared to me as a hostage. I've referred them to the attorney general, but he's not in charge of the law of this hour. A problem that is very dangerous in Croatian society. You have people who have raised their loans, they have guarantees for these loans, and most often the bailiffs suffer. I know that in this society of this hour it's probably one of the most dangerous things to be a guarantee to someone for a loan. But you have people who have raised loans, they have property, they've copied them to a close or further family. The guarantees pay off the loans and simply these guarantees can't do anything. They are taken not by what is legally allowed one third of the wages or incomes they have but by much more because our banks know how to ensure when they give something and the poverty becomes an even greater poverty itself. Unfortunately, there are thousands of families in Croatia who are in such a situation. I think that in the context of this report, and I know that such questions have been made according to the Office of the Public Attorney, he's right, he's simply not in charge, but it seems to me that we, like this House of the High, have to feel that way and have more social sensitivity and in such cases because it happens that families are falling apart, that people are going to the streets, that they simply don't have anything to live on and social cases. Those who have raised money and who have bought property simply have nothing to do with them and laugh at them in the face. Here I end up supporting this report because these reports through these here are almost six years that I've been in the Parliament have never been pleasant to listen to. However, they are the reality of life in Croatia. However, by supporting means of the report, I support the achievement of human, material and financial conditions that the Office of the Attorney General can do even better. And then, in that case, we don't have to doubt that always those who are dissatisfied will seek someone's protection. It's often unwarranted. But let's not all have a stain on our own conscience that people have no one to complain to, we also see it on the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals, and it's one of the institutions that dissatisfied citizens address when they have no more, and the ombudsman seems to be the last institution in this country to have the will and intend to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38102	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for you to meet your esteemed colleague, Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. P.R. with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman is a review of his work and data on the degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the past year. It is certainly necessary to take into account the fact that the 2004 report was made under the circumstances of the change of the Ombudsman, where Mr Antu Klaric was replaced by Mr Jurica Malcic. Therefore, this report, in my opinion, does not contain a full picture of the state and degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, but contains only a review of the most significant and most numerous phenomena that the Ombudsman is meeting in his work. In his debate, he would specifically refer to complaints about the work of the courts. The report shows that a large number of citizens have requested assistance from the ombudsman over cases that have been awaiting resolution for years. It's often about people's fates and solving their... and life's problems, so it's not surprising how many complaints. In the inability to solve their problem, citizens are addressing the occupier in hopes that it is their last straw of salvation. Unfortunately, however, their Ombudsman is not authorized to solve the problems of such a kind but to refer citizens to their problem or to send an adjudicator for a specific case to the competent institutions. This adds to the dissatisfaction of citizens who are spinning around in a circle with their problems and do not see the exits of that vicious circle and lose confidence in the rule of law. In addition, for the purpose of defending their rights, the Ombudsman is addressed by citizens who have not bought an apartment under the terms of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. Unfortunately, there is a conflict of interest of former residents in private apartments considered to be damaged and discriminated against and the owner of apartments that often try to empty the apartment in an extreme and inappropriate way. This problem requires a hasty resolution in order to remove existing doubts and disputes, so we are witnessing unsavoury events from the apartments shown in the media. I would also say something about the rights in the area of spatial planning, construction and environmental protection where citizens also addressed the Ombudsman for violation of their rights during 2004. In particular, there has been an expression of the fact that the rights of neighbours in the procedures carried out by construction inspectors have been disregarded. Citizens shall be deprived of the property of a party and of an interested person who has the right to protect his or her interests before the authority of the State administration. Forced execution of the building inspectors' solution to the removal of illegal construction shall not be carried out in a timely manner or not at all. Therefore, there is also a phenomenon of usurpation and, in particular, public well-being. This condition is primarily unsatisfactory by local authorities in local self-government units. Local self-government units shall not have the means to impose measures to prohibit or suspend construction or order the removal of certain facilities so that they feel ineffective and helpless in that segment. The lack of spatial planning documentation is due to the legal uncertainty of citizens. Certain areas and parcels of purpose are changed through spatial order documents, and for these changes, owners are generally found out after they have already entered into force. The Institute of Public Discussions is not sound enough and in the right way, so citizens do not receive timely information on the possibility of making an observation on a spatial basis. The Ombudsman is primarily invited by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings against the state administration and other bodies with public authority. It is evident that the largest number of complaints made by citizens is the work and conduct of these bodies. A far-reaching number of complaints were referred to because of the length of the proceedings and not making a solution within 60 days or at least within a reasonable period of time. Although there are also objective reasons for overruns, such as a large inflow of the case over a short period of time, the complexity of the procedure itself and the lack of material resources should certainly be stated that it is not, as a rule, circumstances that could not be foreseen. It concerns the fact that there is no permanent and stalking system for the supervision of executive representative bodies in the resolution of the administrative procedure. In any event, a system should be introduced to ensure the monitoring and evaluation of the number of resolved cases, together with each officer, time limits, resolution methods, abolished, annulled or amended solutions. In his report, the Ombudsman also referred to the problems of citizens relating to the violation of status rights, then problems relating to property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule and also to the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Finally, it is necessary to take into account the fact that Mr Malcic, the attorney general, is short on this responsible function, so we are not able to look at his work fully and what we will be able to do in the 2005 report. I accept this report and support the initiative to increase the resources of the Ombudsman's Office and to find a solution for the adequate premises in which it will operate, in order to certainly do its responsible work better and more effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38104	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. A respected colleague, Zdenka Babic-Petricevic, is on her way. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38105	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Attorney General Malcic. I'm not going to start my brief discussion about the report that you sent us and characterized it that what's good, largely, is better than last year, I commend you and your civic duty to do everything. However, it is your sacred duty, since you must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I will present several facts that I often talk about with people I represent in the Croatian Parliament, which are Croats living outside the borders of the Croatian state. However, something has bothered me with you, and here today we all refer to the Constitution, every law that has been passed in the Croatian Parliament is passed on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I will quote to Mr Malcic the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 14, which reads: "All are equal before the Constitution and the law." So here I said in your report that I will not give you an assessment, I am not in the Croatian Parliament, but that is why we are in the Croatian Assembly to help you solve these problems that are great. Somewhere they shrink, they grow somewhere, and that's why I'm surprised when you're in your opening speech, and here you're often discussing the Croatian Parliament when it comes to human rights and protecting human rights and putting priorities somewhere when it comes to protecting human rights, so we're talking about people and all of those people we advocate and we're talking about their problems in the Croatian Parliament shouldn't be more primary than each other. The man is human. Here he said that justice is the worst when it comes late, often the dead experience justice, but it is not enough then, but it is so, justice is often like a spider but it is better to experience it ever than never. So today I will quote you in your opening speech you said this, in my part of the report I particularly stressed the issue of the return of property, reconstruction and stable care as issues without which the effective resolution of Croatian citizens is mainly the Serb returnees cannot achieve fundamental rights and no initial assumptions about normal life in the Republic of Croatia. Absolutely. I advocate that every human on, every Croatian citizen has the right to a normal life in the Republic of Croatia without prejudicing one of the other and I repeat, and I call on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it has been spoken several times today about those who left during the Homeland War for justified or unwarranted reasons, but who did not have to leave the Republic of Croatia, come back and let them settle their housing issues and let their permanent roof over their heads, as the key in the lock says. But for human reasons, I can't prejudge one another and neglect another. In the Republic of Croatia, the time of the Homeland War, i.e. at the time of the aggression on the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croats from Vojvodina, the Croats from Janjevo and about your report on page 128 but without particular emphasis, pointed out their problems, I will quote you: As far as the return of property in Croatia is concerned, there are still about a thousand of which the largest part of which the owners are looking for a return, should be returned by the summer of 2005. In addition to objective problems such as lack of accommodation for temporary users, the Ombudsman intervened in a number of cases where temporary users were unfairly favored at the owner's expense. There may be cases like this, but please, if you are stressing the problems of one, and they have no roof over their heads in the Republic of Croatia, then don't put the problems of others on the sideline, because this government and while I was a representative of the opposition, I said that there should be a permanent accommodation for each other, not at the expense of some others. In addition to what the Constitution prescribes, Croatians have become Croatian citizens from Vojvodina, Bosnia and Herzegovina and from Janjevo. Unfortunately, one part of them remained only in the Republic of Croatia, in the country of origin which, according to the Foreign Law, ceased to be a country of origin, because if the Croatian comes now without a Croatian passport and people wrote this specifically to you from the emigration to the Republic of Croatia, they are treated as foreigners until that moment until they get not a passport but a solution for receiving Croatian citizenship, and from that moment on, I cannot, even though I still point out the Croatian state as a country of origin. Well, this comparison is unacceptable to me. I'm about to solve each other's problems, that each other can't be more primary, to put someone on the first track and the other back on the last platform. And that, unfortunately, I was on Monday morning, Monday afternoon at a funeral in Savina, and I met people who were exiled from their hearths from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then a Croatian defender came to me from Kore and told Mrs Babic I went to my father's orna and I just wanted to try something, I cleaned up the oran and prepared it for the spring crop, but when I came three days later, you won't believe Mr. Pussy's attorney, that there was more trash on that oran that I assumed had collected all the garbage in that area and brought it back to the oran, Stipe I won't call him by last name and so it works and refers to part of Croatian citizens who would actually have to their hearths as Serbs have returned to their hears. If your report is not by number, but if you stress problems in your report with the same measure then I will give you in this part of your report and certainly not a passing assessment but support. I have no right or my laws are in my hands. But secondly, sir, I'm going to show you something else, which is, if you were, you said you've been going around the county, you've been going around areas of special state interest, out of special state concern, let the returnees come back, come to the elections and let it all be done. Have you been to Biscoy at Trill's, or between Dugopolis and Trill? Were you in barracks where exiled Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina live for years? Please, Mr. Attorney General, if he thinks about every citizen, he must know where Bisco is and where the living people of Bosnia and Herzegovina are being driven into the barracks in one inappropriate way. Why aren't they in this report? Why are not the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the report, the truth cannot include all those living in the Lašcevic bars? So here's if this is how it works and tries to solve the problems that need to be solved proportionately then it will be the real protection of human rights, and everyone who left the Republic of Croatia didn't have to go back to their hearths but I will support it in the hope that it will not return and will not get a roof over the head of those who killed the Republic of Croatia. But now something else, and it is requirements for admission to Croatian citizenship. Your representative was with us on the Immigration Committee. We have often pointed out to you that in this way the Law on Croatian Citizenship many do not adhere to Articles 16 and 11 of the existing Law on Croatian Citizenship and that in the correspondence between you and the Ministry of Interior today I have no time to quote what this means today and who is an emigrant. So the emigrant is the only one who has moved out of the Republic of Croatia, moved out of the Republic of Croatia between the two world wars and what these many others are, homeless. However, in the hope that you will really constructively think and not prejudge problems because every man, his problem is for him the biggest problem. So there won't be any Croats waiting for...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38106	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38107	... Croatian citizenship, allow me, Mr. Vice President, a year and a half or more. However, we often identify ourselves and see ourselves as being the same as the Jews, or Israel. We are neither like Israel accepts its tribe lost in India. And we to our Croats who, for generations already living, are third generation in European countries, not to mention the problems of Croatians from South America. They've been waiting five years, and the Croats who moved to Macedonia...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38108	Thank you very much, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38109	Here, just one more...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38110	Done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38111	... Serbia-Montenegro...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38112	We've let you go enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38113	...please, without the document I cannot get Croatian citizenship, and the document is inevitable, and I cannot use what Serbian citizens use...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38114	Correction of the incorrect quote, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38115	So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague because she repeatedly asked the current occupier if he was visiting these five counties that were visited in 2004. Well, he couldn't have been when he wasn't a public defender, but he's only been since December 1st last year. ... Well, since he wasn't a correction, how could he have been when he wasn't a public defender. .../Speakers speaking out loud, not understood.7... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38116	Proceeding, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Tell your colleagues. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38117	... But I have to tell you, I didn't call Mr. Attorney General for not visiting all the county because it's impossible. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I've pointed only two places and once again, please if you haven't, Bisco and Baraka Lavcevic. And, Mr. Comrade, listen and wash your ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38118	No, no, please nice. Please nice, there's no need to treat each other like that. This certainly wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure, it was an easy ruse to try to respond to the correction of an incorrect quote as if it were a replica, and it wasn't. I'd pray you don't throw yourself out of the bench. It's my dear fellow Piploic, but he's gone as far as I can tell. He's losing his voice on this subject. Does the attorney general want to take the final word? Yeah. The word has a mere lawyer, Mr. Malcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38119	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Given that the Report of the Public Attorney has 140 pages and that all day today has been a debate I will try not to bother you very much, but I just want to highlight some of the points that I think you need to say after this debate. First, I will say that I am encouraged by this debate as I was and encouraged when an all-party agreement is being proposed this time by a public defender. On this occasion, I will thank you for the trust and for those MPs who were not then known for their reasons at the vote. But that was already the first fact that encouraged me. The second is indeed today's debate in which the largest majority could not conclude that there is some left and right side in terms of assessing the protection of human rights. I think the debate in that sense was all useful and good. And I thank all those who have given us support, and I also thank those who have critical observations on the work of the Ombudsman, and I will try to examine and show myself to them. What we need to say at this point is that it should be understood that the attorney general still acts primarily on complaints. So he has the opportunity to act on his own initiative, but the basic basis of his actions are still complaints. In that sense, the report may seem a little and too negatively intrinsic. However, I warned at the beginning of the report that this was not a full assessment of the degree of respect for human rights, but, therefore, on the basis of the work that the Ombudsman has on the basis of complaints and other knowledge. That's why I apologize to those parts of the administration and those bodies of the state administration, and to the local and state that works well. Because there are such, but it is not the job of an attorney general to praise or to give grades in this sense. So please, I'm standing behind all these grades that apply in certain areas. We've given certain examples, etc. However, it should not be concluded from this that the situation is as negative as it is in the report because the report is a duty to point to those precisely negative, which should be corrected. In that sense, I stress, she was mentioned there several times by the government, why there is no government, why there is no obvious, etc. In some previous discussions on the Ombudsman's report, it was in some way against the government to manifest itself because the occupier controls the government rather than the Government's over-reporting of the occupier, etc. However, I warn you that this time we and the government had the necessary cooperation, that I was at the government's coordination, that the government's bodies, ministries, etc. were evident in the findings of the vehicular attorney and that I was very pleased with the reactions that I encountered there. I think that the government was about to conclude that all state bodies would continue to cooperate with the Ombudsman in order to remove the negative phenomena that we have reported in the report. So in that sense, I think it is, that it should not be detested in that the government is not directly referring to the Report. We have co-operation with the government, and I have, especially at the beginning of this year, introduced a practice of considerable consultations with individual government resolutions that are already giving me good results. The only thing to point out now is that there was a reference to that sentence of ours that these are the ministries most often deafening to us. So it's not the ministries that go deaf at all. These are the ministries where there are several cases. That's already progress compared to everything that's happened in the past few years. The government's percentage of perception and response to our demands is increasing every year. We're not happy with him until the end because there were about 20% of those who didn't respond within the time limit. But I'm saying, just calling doesn't mean that these things haven't been fixed in some way. What I also think should be highlighted is the question of material resources, therefore, budgets. I've placed a relationship to the attorney general's funds for children and lawyers for gender equality as only one illustration and with their permission. My personal point of view is that when these specialised lawyers were already established so it wouldn't be justified to join them into an office right now, but he would strongly oppose the new ones, the establishment of new attorneys. Several such proposals have already entered the procedure in some way. At least until that moment until this office provides some basic working conditions. I don't think it's enough with the Parliament in some way just calling on the government to secure funds for the work of the attorney general. This Parliament brings a budget, I really expect, after this debate, that there will be no problem this year, and that, as far as the rebalancing is concerned, I already have a letter, a promise from Minister Shuker, and I believe that in the draft budget for the next and the year 2007 we will also make the funds according to that proposal that we made. Compared to the last debate of Ms. MPs, I would only say that the result of the particularly prominent issues of return of property, the Serb returnees is precisely because we are acting on complaints. 80% of the complaints that we have in these areas, the return of property, housing care are exactly the complaints. So these are the people who came to us, so that's the largest number of complaints we're working with. I promise you that if there are not only these complaints, but any knowledge of the problems of other people who have similar that I will personally engage in finding a place not only in this report but also in a special report to the Parliament, and that I will try to intervene in their favor as much as possible. So this is not the result of some of my commitment, but it is the result of what is the largest number of complaints. On the other hand, it is not a matter of politics, for me it is the implementation of Croatian laws and the Government programme that enjoys the support of the majority in this House, which is why it has also found a place in our Report. Just to say more about the courts, I am the last person to question the independence and independence of the judiciary, I was in the Constitutional Court for eight years, and I know that the greatest liquid is democratic independence and independence of the judiciary, but in all the regulated countries, the division of government does not mean mechanical division it does not mean irresponsibility. Our constitutional provision on mutual co-operation and the verification of the holder of the government, not only gives the right but I would also tell this Parliament to open the debate in some way, whether it will be within the Office of the Ombudsman or in some other way through the Parliamentary Committee on Justice that is another issue, but I felt my duty to get to know citizens about it on the basis of a large number of complaints. I expected that it would not be your best accepted by the judges, I think that lately the tones have become more peaceful and that they will be able to do something about it. As far as fieldwork is concerned, i.e. I must tell you that for now we are not thinking at all, if we are thinking about it then, in terms of office days in the county and the field, we believe that Croatia is too small, and because of material resources, our office would not be good at establishing some regional outposts, but I will stand up for office days in the county and in the field. This particular issue as regards the law on Croatian citizenship, etc., I repeat, I am prepared not only to talk about it but to intervene in all cases where possible, however, I warn the Advocate General is not a general protector of human rights which, as an NGO, or I do not know which other bodies give general assessments, yet as a fundamental issue, has complaints of citizens and based on these complaints, the basis of his work is mainly in this. Finally, I thank you once again, I am really encouraged precisely because it seems to me that there has been no division on the fundamental issue, and that is in the assessment of the need to be before the administration in particular, and before the courts to protect human rights in the way that is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38120	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm closing the debate on this point we'll probably vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38121	A report on the work of the Ombudsman in 2004. We have a whole series of conclusions. First. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2004 is hereby adopted. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 90 votes for and 3 votes, the proposed conclusion has been abstentioned. We'll check it out at the next vote. Let's go to another conclusion. This would be a very relatively significant violation of the voting provisions. In accordance with the proposal of the War Veterans Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide the necessary financial resources for the staff, material and spatial strengthening of the Office of the Ombudsman according to the plan proposed in the report. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 90 votes for and 3 abstentions, we accept the proposed report. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the next conclusion. Opinions, objections and proposals shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent national authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 90 votes for, one abstention and 2 against the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is recommended to the Committee on Justice to consider the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the judicial authorities with the aim of achieving the public and improving the effectiveness of its work. The Committee proposes to the Committee, the other committee. That's a little bit. All right, let's get on board so we can vote. Score. 14 for, 29 abstentions, 46 against. We have no objection to the Committee on Justice having regard to the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the proposal for their conclusion and, in accordance with the SDP Representatives' Club's proposal, I am voting on the next conclusion. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare until the first autumn of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and to refer to the parliamentary procedure amendments to the rules that would allow the Ombudsman to effectively monitor the work of courts and propose measures for better legal protection of citizens. Let's get on board so we can vote. Score. 30 votes for, 47 abstentions, 13 against. That's the result. The conclusion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38122	We move to the next point - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2004. According to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the report was delivered, the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, its reports were received at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go. There's an academic named Cvetnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38123	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The report you received is only a summary of the 108th book of the summer paper, which shows the entire work of the Academy in the past 2004. Let me just point out the book in which the full view of the work extends to something over 700 pages. Last year was another successful year for our Academy in all fields of scientific and artistic work, in the work of academic classes, in its institutions and units, and scientific councils at the meetings of the Academy in the work of the Presidency and its committees, in publishing activities as well as in construction and restoration procedures at the academy buildings. On 31 December 2004 The Croatian Academy had 150 regular members, then 141 correspondence members, and 81 co-workers, resulting in a total of 372 members of the Academy last year, in all categories of membership. In the past year, the Academy held 2 regular congregations, one constituency and 2 solemn sessions. The Academy presidency held nine regular sessions last year. The Bureau held meetings specifically on criteria for the award of the Academy to prominent scientists and artists. The Croatian Elaboratu is based on knowledge and knowledge, prepared by the Working Group of Academy members and external associates, on the programme to mark the anniversary of academic founders and benefactors of Bishop Josip Jurossmayer, the establishment of the scientific council of the Croatian Academy of State Administration, the judiciary and the rule of law, the problem of abolishing the Croatian language lecturer at some German universities, the reprogramming of the realisation of the capital project of the chemical laboratory building in Strossmayer Square No. 14, the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the adoption of the Academy's report on the work of the Academy in 2003, on the content of the draft text of the Academy Statute, with a unique view to not going on the adoption of a new Statute but to amend those provisions that are necessary to achieve better organisation of Croatian Academy's work. The foundation "Ružićka's House" and the foundation's efforts to restore the home house of Lavoslav Ružička in Vukovar as soon as possible, which was devastated during the Homeland War. Then, at the first congress of Croatian scientists from country and abroad, and in its conclusions. Then on to the unsatisfactory attitude of Croatian radiotelevision towards monitoring the work of the Croatian Academy, marking important anniversary, sponsorship and organisation of numerous scientific gatherings and about the selection of scientific and research titles of the staff of the Academy. In 2004, the Croatian Academy's foundation provided 2 million 774 thousand and 520 kuna as part of the compensation for the taken-off academy's apartments. In late 2004, the wealth of the foundation amounted to around 2 million 630 thousand euros and 2 million and 600 thousand kuna. The international co-operation of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was developed and varied in the past year so that the scope and quality of action of representatives of the Croatian Academy in international associations in which it is an active member and is particularly actively involved in the work of the European Science Foundation. The Croatian Academy has agreements or agreements on scientific cooperation with the Academy of Albania, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, China, Kosovo, Hungary, Macedonia, Germany, Poland, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia and the UK. During last year, our academy signed new agreements on cooperation with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and with the Swedish Royal Academy. He's out of press III. The freshness of the edition "Croatia and Europe" in Croatian language Baroque and Enlightenment, which includes the 17th and 18th centuries, which is solemnly presented in the rebirth hall. It's ready for press II. fresh in French and continued lecturing work on II. The English edition was collected 41 contributions for IV. A volume for V and the last volume arrived 33 out of 62 contributions. The main study of the natural base was completed and a study of the found state for the development of valid solutions was launched in the landscape-architectural arrangement and the processing of all segments of Arboretum Tristeno. The organization and restoration of olive groves, the construction of a museum programme and the development of flora and fauna research projects in the framework of research were the diversity of protected areas in Croatia. Printed is the first prospectus "Arboretum Trsteno" in Croatian and English. The activities of the academy took place in nine classes, 17 units and 15 scientific councils. The Academy has scientific and research activities except in classes and other units such as shelters, centres, laboratories and cabinets. The Academy has 17 such units in Zagreb and outside Zagreb. The other nine units are located outside Zagreb, two units based in Dubrovnik, one in Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Osijek, Vinkovci and Trsten. A new scientific research unit was established last year in Bjelovar. The scientific and research unit of the Academy during 2004 worked on 45 scientific and one co-operation project. It's about what happened. parent projects, therefore, on projects whose research is mainly carried out in the academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the Academy or other scientists from the Academy's institutions and institutes. In addition to these projects in the Academy, a number of other scientific and artistic tasks were realized during 2004 which certain classes of their committees and, in particular, scientific councils and museum-galery units set as the goal of their scientific and artistic activities over a long period of time. The museum-gallery activities feature gliptotheque, cabinet graphics, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters and the Croatian Museum of Architecture. In the composition of the Academy’s professional services, the archives and libraries work. Their important activities are detailed in the summer report. The archive continues the process of computerising the entire activities of the academy. Last year, the Academy paid special attention to publishing activities because we can thus show our work and the work of our members. From its draft to the end of last year, the academy published a total of 4000 279 volumes of different editions. In 2004, 90 volumes were published and among these titles are 36 books of chambers and monuments, 37 volumes of magazines and 17 catalogues of art exhibitions and two CDs. The final accounts of the Academy for the past year show that the entire business of the Academy spent an amount of 68 million 109 thousand 420 kuna and thus achieved a surplus of revenue over expenditure of 8 million 583 thousand 220 kuna. The excess revenue shown is the result of the rational and careful business of the academy and other circumstances which have led to the fact that all the collateral is not spent in the current year. For example, funds for a publishing project Croatia and Europe and resources for working on scientific and research projects whose realization continues this year. However, the majority of the funding of 6 million 680 thousand kuna which was intended to be used for the settlement of compulsory contributions to pension and health insurance at the permanent monthly awards of academics paid in 2003, with the consent of the competent ministries, for which we particularly thank them, has been re-purposed for the project of reconstruction and arrangement of the chemical laboratory building at Strossmayer Square in the Academy Library. That work is ongoing. Therefore, the excess revenue shown above expenditure is not free but reserved funds for long-term projects of the Academy and especially for capital investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38124	Thank you, Mr. Academy. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Here you go, colleague Pavlic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38125	Dear ladies and gentlemen! So let me present our report on behalf of the parent board of education, science and culture. So, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 14th session, held on 20 May this year a report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2004. The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body and the opening statement was tabled by a representative of the rapporteur. The board members highlighted the favourable programme and financial indicators of the activities of all the organisational forms of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2004. Voicing the belief that the widest social support needed by such projects as the restoration and equipment of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the successful continuation of the scientific and publishing project Croatia and Europe. The report shows enhanced international co-operation, not only with over 20 academics around the world but also with other important scientific and artistic institutions of international importance. The following conclusion was reached by the Committee. The Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38126	Thank you very much, colleague Pavlic. Does a government official want to take a word for it? There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. I'd like a colleague of Paulica on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38127	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Vice President, representatives of the Academy and the Ministry, let me, in short, on behalf of the IDS Club with, therefore, one member of the IMF, declare myself therefore, this report. We thought, therefore, that it was necessary to look back on this report primarily because of our support for the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. So we heard in the report that the work of the Academy in 2004 was extremely rich but what we would like to especially highlight is work, i.e. Croatian knowledge-based and knowledge-based development of elaborates. This is one of Croatia's most comprehensive documents dealing with this problem, and we all agree that knowledge and application of knowledge is that or should at least be one of the basic strategic issues of Croatia's development. So allow me to say a few words about that elaborate, i.e. to extract some valuable information that this elaborate presents to us. So immediately in the first sentence, it stands out, let me quote: "The Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts considers it its duty to ring for an alert because of the situation in which Croatian society is in view of the knowledge and its application in development and to point to perspectives.". I think this is very important to emphasise and that the concern expressed by our Academy is, therefore, well justified. Because they also point out that Croatia needs to learn from a circle of less developed countries and prevent its current technological backlog from deepening. Unfortunately, this technological backlog exists, and that is what many data tell us. Among other things, therefore, we also have data on the starting position for future development in education in Croatia is determined by the state of education of the population. According to the 2001 census, this is the condition of the following. So it's about the education of the population from 15 years away. So in Croatia we have 2.86% of the population without school, 15.76% with incomplete primary school, 21%, 20.75 with primary school only, 27.24% with a school of interest from 1 to 3 years and a school for KV from VKV workers. 15% of profession schools for four years and over, 4.8% of the population with completed high school 4.0% have higher school and professional studies and 7.27% of the population has completed college or art academy. So, we all always point out that with such an educational level, we cannot enter into competition with other countries and also with some neighbouring countries that we and in these parameters have already overcome. And the Hungary that has somewhere seems to me to be 15% of the population with colleges or art academys. And it's even worse... if we look, for example. and our county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So where do we have a small number of students or, for example, a small number of students? In the County of Međimurje, we only have about 2.5% to 3% of the population with high or higher expertise. And the number of inhabitants per 1,000 inhabitants in Croatia is on average 22 per 1,000 people, which is one small average, in the city of Zagreb is just over 31%, in order to make it even less in other counties. We think that's what we have to pay close attention to. So, this elaborate, this declaration brings out six main topics that I'm not going to elaborate, I'm just going to point them out, as a possibility where we can improve our situation in science and education. So, the Declaration points out that knowledge has become the main production force in human society and the main condition of success, unfortunately, we have heard through this data that we cannot compete with neighbouring countries and let alone with countries in the European Union or developed other developed countries. It is also noted that Croatia needs to learn to improve technological development and thus prevent the deepening of its current technological lagging. Here is also the fact that only half of Croatian companies have some kind of research activity and only 32% manage to implement them in innovation. In doing so, the most successful companies in the energy and chemical sectors are all at a very low level, so we cannot compare ourselves with some countries where some companies, companies themselves, as companies, have far more developed innovation by comparing them with all of Croatia if we take in Croatia, both state institutions and the economy. What the declaration also points out is that on the development of education the focus should primarily be on improving the quality of teaching and on adequate content. The scientific work is the first and permanent task of improving the quality and application of world evaluation criteria. The weight should be placed on the use of knowledge. It should also be directed towards the introduction and consolidation of the rule of law without which there is no developed society, so we spoke here a little earlier, when it came to the debate on the Ombudsman. So these are some basic points that we should all agree on, agree to, reach a consensus because unfortunately this is the case. Investments that we have science and education on our budgets that are somewhere high seems to me to be 4.5% of gross social product a year. These investments are too small, these investments are just enough to keep the current level and if we want to catch up with some countries that we think are... Of us, these investments should be about 17% of gross social product a year, and we are as far away from that as we can see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So once again, we point out the value of this declaration, and we hope that it will come to a better example and will be brought to life both in government policy and in other institutions of this country. So what we would like to warn about would be our desire to continue decentralisation of the work of the academy classes and other units. So we heard that there are 17 units of the academy of which is eight in Zagreb, that 9 is out of Zagreb, two units are in Dubrovnik, one is in Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Osijek, Vinkovci and... If a new unit had been opened in Bjelovar last year, and it is our wish that each of our regions, each county would have one such unit that would therefore process its specificities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we might have noticed is the publishing activity, so we heard that the Academy's story was quite fruitful, numerous, that 90 volumes were issued, but what we would like to warn that only 2 CDs were released. We think that we should do this a little bit more and more together, and that the more editions should be, then, on those more modern carriers, the information, whether it's a DVD or a CD so that they're ultimately more acceptable and more accessible to the younger population. Here are the comments and with the support of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, thanks again for this report and for the work of the Academy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38128	Thank you, dear colleague Pavlic. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Ledinsky. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38129	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government and the Academy. My colleagues and colleagues. Let me first say that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will accept this report on HAZU's work for the past year. And let me highlight a few things that I think are important, and they're related to, uh, the report for the past year. And I think we should all think about it. Especially react to certain levels, as well as to political institutions. Concerned about the first page of the report, which said that last year, thanks to the election of new members, there were minor reductions in the life of regular members of the Academy. So the average academic age in April 2004 was 73.5 years. The upcoming elections for new members of the Academy will take care of the presidency's recommendation not to propose candidates over 70 years of age. The problem is that there are not enough young scientists to ensure the replacement of the older academic community. When I say that regular and working young people are the most important thing, then it means that we need very high-quality, qualitative changes from family, kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, colleges. Without rerouting the activities of all the institutions of society or of the best scientists, technicians, entrepreneurs, managers and all the other best we have no chance of the future and we will be responsible for the increasingly difficult situation in our society and country. I must say that we are particularly grateful to our academics on the "Croatia based on knowledge and knowledge in 2004" platform, but the question is how well this declaration is common to both representatives and then to business, industrial and all other sectors. Especially the ones in the courtroom. How many messages our academics have taken seriously all those concerned. The situation in our society is, unfortunately, such that it is necessary to urgently present this commendable exhibition of academics to come into the hands of all who are in all positions, positions, and I would say especially to all those and in the workplaces. That everyone can study it thoroughly and each from their position do what is there to live in practice. The first Declaration that our academics made since 2002 and presented it to the public unfortunately, the data from it did not bear fruit because it simply did not occur to all those it should have. And in that Declaration, the Academy expressed its willingness and complemented it, operationalized and simply proposed that this initiative be brought together practically throughout our society. This updated Declaration is based on this first and is also significantly extended. I must say that knowledge and technological application of knowledge remain such that Croatia is somewhat lagging behind, and if it does not begin to change, we will all be responsible for its ever-increasing lagging behind. Despite all the advantages we obviously don't know or won't use. The lack of knowledge and its application to once successful companies and today we have the opportunity to see that even these companies stop certain productions. These, too, need to be added to the serious shortcomings of the legal, judicial system and the weaknesses of the state apparatus with outdated forms of the organisation of operation and a series of other weaknesses, shortcomings, failures at many levels. It is urgent and thorough, and I think that we should go first of all from this house of this Croatian Parliament to go into qualitative change. That's why our academics and the founding of the Scientific Council of the Academy of State Administration, the judiciary and the rule of law that I believe should further from, do a part of the job. How current our academics are and how much their expertise should take advantage of speeches and statements from the other day on the pages of our House here, where experts from the European Commission's mission to assess fundamental rights in the Republic of Croatia visited Parliament 25.5. that the mission expert said that the worrying topic imposes the situation in the Croatian judiciary because of the slow resolution of court cases and the congestion of courts on numerous pending files. He wants to know how Croatia solves, intends to solve these problems? Of course, we as advocates can't turn into court decisions, but first of all, it's about the organisation of the judiciary, its organisational structure, and there's certainly the responsibility of the state. It also believes that Croatia has absolutely too many municipal courts. Of course, the situation in our judiciary has long been known to us. Furthermore, we can say that we certainly need one academic need in every branch. And I only set the judiciary as an example. The prerequisite for faster economic development is legal certainty, predictability and reliability of the institutional framework for economic activity. The normal functioning of the judiciary and the general atmosphere of the stable order created by the rule of law. Furthermore, as it stands in an extended 2004 declaration on the 50th page to repair the situation in the judiciary and the administrative authorities is a crucial level of knowledge there by employees of experts who do not meet even today's needs. Only knowledge appropriate to the needs can improve the work of these institutions. Therefore, at the same time as adopting regulations, urgent intensive procedures are needed to raise the quality of work of all those applying the right to make the difference between the quality of the rules and the way they are applied as little as possible. On page 51. Declarations of the right of one country constitute regulations, court practice and legal literature to be taken as a whole. Therefore, they must be available to everyone because everyone has first knowledge of what is applicable to them. It is the duty of the state to do everything in order to achieve it. The State would thus fulfil the task of fulfilling the basis for most of its functions. The good news since 30 May of this year is the informing of the Croatian judiciary, the opening of a judicial network containing the websites of all courts and state lawyers in Croatia, thousands of web sites of judicial witches and interpreters with the possibility of advanced search. A competent authority that allows citizens with a particular legal interest to find out which court or State Attorney's Office is responsible for deciding on a particular area as well as a judicial tribunal base which can also be searched very closely and easily. Among other things, they discussed the first congress of Croatian scientists from country and abroad and its conclusions. Thanks to the academics for having discussed it. We know how, for example, the Irish diaspora helped its homeland get out of the crisis. What may be worrying is that certain thematic activities of the Academy may not be closely monitored in various media, so that the information that might come to us in time does not come at the right time, and in that part, I think that we should also see with editors especially to say here television, radios for the information to be presented to the general public in time. It is also necessary to create conditions that will allow the creation and application of new knowledge. The marginal involvement of R & D activities in the economy is marginal. There is no necessary critical mass of knowledge and education in our economy. Research and development is the only domestic source of new products and services. In the end, I'm going to quote a piece of the declaration that I think is particularly impressed by me. And I suggest that all MPs visit the website of our academy and study a declaration that I think can help in many of our joint, further our work together. Here's a quote from that declaration. The debt of science, scientific rationality and justification must cover all relevant activities in society and political decisions should be made on the basis of all available knowledge and information and their political analysis. Competence should become a major criterion in selecting people and in assessing the proposals they teach and not repeating their earlier mistakes. When we talk about the financial situation at the academy, I would especially like to argue that in the future budget rebalancing, which will be that these funds are not reduced. And we saw that last year some of the funds were reserved and remained for certain needs of the academy. And finally, to conclude, the HSS Club supports the adoption of this report for the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38130	Thank you very much. HDZ club respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38131	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The 2004 Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts report itself states among other things: It was another successful year for our academy in all fields of scientific and artistic work, in the work of academic classes, in its institutions, units and scientific councils at the meetings of the Academy, in the work of the Presidency, etc. In the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2003, it was exactly the same: It was for our academy another successful year in all fields, in scientific and artistic work, in the work of the Academy and the class, in its institutions, units, etc. I hope it's not a form that repeats itself every year. You should take care of that anyway. Here's some basic data on the academy membership. On December 31st, the report states that the Croatian Academy had 150 regular members, 104 in scientific, 46 in art classes. It follows that at the end of last year, the academy had a total of 372 members in all categories of membership. What I would especially like to emphasise is that it is not a small force and remains a question of whether this number of people and the work and influence that the academy is accomplishing in society corresponds to each other. I think we have a right to ask for more. Keep going. Thanks to the election of new members, there was a decrease in the life age of regular members of the academy, so the average age of all academics at the end of 2004 was 73 and a half years. The recommendation that the upcoming elections for new members of the academy should take due account of the presidency's position not to propose candidates over 70 years of age for new regular members. This number is unfortunately a picture of the demographic reality of the Republic of Croatia. We age, old institutions, and all of this has the proper consequences for their productivity, for their energy, and for everything in society and for the institutions as headquarters, spiritual and intellectual ones should achieve. The same characteristics stand entirely in the previous year's report. I didn't get a chance to watch the 2002 report. Something about the work of the Academy Presidency. The report says that the meetings of the Academy Presidency discussed the appropriate decisions on the financial plan for 2004, during the proposed candidates for the new members of the Academy, criteria for the award of the Academy to prominent scientists, artists, Croatia's knowledge-based elaborate. We talked about it last year, and it seems to me that today we're talking about the same document that we talked about a year ago. Keep going. The working group, composed of the Academy members of external associates, submitted a report on financial operations and the final account. Something has also been said about the establishment of a Scientific Council of the Croatian Academy of State Administration, Justice and the rule of law, and I think it is one good, useful and valuable initiative that some others who are more competent to talk about. There was talk about starting a debate, about the criteria for judgment of scientific work. That's what you've been talking about for decades. The European Commission's initiative and the Serbian and Montenegrin Academy of Sciences and Arts and the organisation of a meeting of the presidents of the Southeastern European Academy of Sciences and the establishment of cooperation with the Chinese Academy of Engineering. And what I would like to point out in particular was also discussed the participation of the Ruđer Bošković Institute in a project of science and technology development based on the World Bank loan. Also something unusual, which could be heard at the Presidency of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, refers to the finding of an unsatisfactory attitude of Croatian radiotelevision towards monitoring the work of the Croatian Academy. So I quote what's in your report. It is no wonder that many others have recognized and I would say the insufficient responsibility of Croatian broadcasting to some important segments of Croatian social, political, scientific life that can have a major impact on Croatia's development. Therefore, I am stressing once again at the Presidency of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, a dissatisfaction of Croatian radiotelevision towards monitoring the work of the Croatian Academy has been observed. It certainly has its broader political significance, and some other opportunities will likely be discussed. The work of the academy classes and other units, as stated in the report, took place in 9 classes, 17 units and 15 scientific councils. And what you would especially like to say more about, scientific councils are one form of flexibility of the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which allows the Academy to concentrate on some important social and other problems. Indeed, I said it last year and I said it several times, and I will stress it again and again and this time, I think the moment has matured, that the conditions have been created for both the Croatian Academy of Science and Art to form a scientific council that would deal with the Homeland War. It has ended 10 years since, so it has been 10 years since 1995, enough time distance to speak seriously, responsibly, scientifically, thoroughly about everything that is very important for Croatian history, for the Croatian future. And one such scientific advice, or scientific council, should and could see the light of day in particular that there is a class for social sciences that would generally be competent and responsible to launch one such project. I've heard other places of desire for such a scientific council to be founded and I think it's likely that in my work the Academy Presidency will consider such initiatives. A few words about the financial report. The total funds available last year by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts amounted to 76 million 692 thousand etc. Kuna and were a quarter higher than the 2003 funding. This amount includes the most resources provided from the state budget 85%, then the funds secured from other sources of funding from the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the City Office for Culture Zagreb, County, cities and other legal and physical persons 12%. And I stress what I believe to be particularly important, the funds achieved by the academy's own activities were only 3.7%. And I'll be free to say next. If these 3.7% of the funding of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts budget in last year is a measure of the value of the knowledge market, then it is not good because this measure of the value of the knowledge market that shows the exchange of knowledge between the Croatian Academy of Science and Art as a headquarters institution and all other parts of society is 3 million kuna. For a society that wants stronger overall social development, progress, etc. then I think it is unacceptable and I think the academy should and may have the strength to participate more actively, more energetically in the cooperation with other parts of Croatian society. In the end knowledge is value, it is ultimately knowledge that has its own measure and should certainly insist on it. Those last year numbers are almost the same as 3.87%. A few words about what we heard here today about the Declaration of Knowledge in Croatia based on knowledge and knowledge, we talked about it a year ago. What I want to point out was a year ago in my report, it's an important document and we asked that the work on that document be intensified. It seems to me that the document has almost no major changes and it would not be good if one such important initiative and contribution of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts remained at that level in the final form. You have made it very clear and I do not think it is good that this was not heard, stronger and wider in the Croatian public, that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts considers its duty to ring the alarm because of the situation in which Croatian society is in view of the knowledge and its application in development and to point to perspectives. This message and that attitude obliges us to take steps further in this regard because it would not be good and it would not be acceptable to remain only on one such declarative document that is important, but in any case it is not enough and it is not a document that can in terms of practical values make its necessary contribution. I was in the last debate when we talked about the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, also told this Declaration of Knowledge and pointed out the following. This document, quote: This document is printed in only 500 copies. It should do everything to print this document in at least 50,000 copies and distribute in Croatian society because it is one of the best diagnosiss of modern Croatia and the problems facing not only the Croatian economy but also Croatian society and science as a whole. And I also suggested that, in this sense, we also have an appropriate concrete focused debate on which not only the representatives of the academy would participate, but all those who, in their institutional sense of responsibility, can make an appropriate contribution. I'd point out at the end of the next one. The HDZ Club gives strong support to the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and closely monitors its work as well as all reports but we are also free to give specific proposals and initiatives: a) We expect a stronger continuation of the work on the Knowledge Declaration. b) The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts should have and lead and take over the main role of the project. c) To include representatives of other academys when we are talking specifically about the knowledge, role and place of knowledge in the development of the Croatian economy, increasing the competitiveness of Croatian products, then one such action should have a wider engagement. I can say as an extraordinary member of the Croatian Academy of Engineering that cooperation not only with the Croatian Academy of Technical Sciences but also with other academics in this sense can be of special benefit. What should be prevented, and not only in this report, is that there are unfortunately many foundations in Croatia. The Foundation has a Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, tomorrow we will discuss the Foundation for the Development of Science and Employment, etc. A large number of foundations, a large number of initiatives, a large fragmentation of the small and poor Croatian scientific scene in terms of potential, especially financial resources. The resources you have in your mood are too small and some other foundations have significantly larger resources. Uniting work in this area is very important. The Croatian Parliament, I believe, Mr. President, will accept every initiative of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to this end and give support to its work as it has been, but with full right to expect more because the Academy can and we, with full right and we expect much more in this regard than it has been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38132	Thank you very much. HNS club PGS respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38133	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to welcome the academics Cvetnic and the Secretary of State, Mr. Taker. I thank the academy of course for this report, and I will begin by saying that the HNS club PGS will support the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the past year, because it is certainly not a question for us that the academy from its 9th grade, 17 units and 15 scientific councils did a very good job last year. There is no question of the importance of the Croatian Academy in our society, there is no question that it is the highest cultural and scientific institution in our country. It is not questionable that we all agree and that we want to help the Croatian Academy promote our science and our art and connect it with scientific and cultural institutions around the world. It is not doubtful that the work of the Croatian Academy should continue to be financed directly from the state budget and it is not doubtful that we need to allocate as much funds for your work as possible. However, there is something I must say now in a completely different context. I've already said at the previous point what I think about our work on the analysis of certain reports and what we should do and what we don't do about these reports. 20 minutes ago, I asked Vice President Arlovic how many reported. He told me three clubs and two individual applications. I allow that since then there has been another application, but this job about the knowledge declaration, about all your activities, has been done in an hour, and a few weeks ago about another anti-fascism declaration we've been dealing with for two days, and we certainly haven't been able to finish the job. I was one of the ones who stayed on the long list that didn't even have a chance to talk. Of course, colleagues and colleagues aren't well. That's definitely not good. Especially if we know that the European Union that we want to get close to, which we want to enter right into this segment in the next six years, will in this segment raise funds by two and a half times, from 19 billion euros to 73 billion euros, and our interest is almost nothing. In fact, I think this report should be read in a way that we can read between the lines and try to look for some of our conclusions, our obligations, our tasks. First of all, I would ask myself if Croatian society can make better use of its academically educated citizens, especially those of the most famous and qualitative. Whether or not the calls for proposals for scientific and research work are coordinated, we heard earlier, from previous speakers and the Ministry and the Academy and the Science Foundation, as well as many other institutions. Whether the criteria for selecting and accepting individual projects are harmonised. Is it possible for the applicant to get a negative review of his project with one institution, the state repeats, and for the other institution to get green light and funding. Whether or not the priority areas of research and cooperation have been agreed is whether these areas are based on our country's development strategy. Further, colleagues and colleagues, we have to ask ourselves, and knowing that the founding and ownership rights of many cultural institutions have been transferred in the process of decentralisation to counties and cities? Do cities and counties use our academics' services to protect their cultural heritage, to protect their historical heritage, how much cooperation is with state institutions and by our units of local and regional self-government? Is it logical that a huge number of academics whose average age, we heard, has been running scientific projects funded by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for 73 years? I don't think so. It would make sense that they are advisors on these projects, and that the project leaders are people at the most creative age. I will only remind you sharply that in some countries it is restricted that the project manager should not be over 60 years old but may, after that age, be exclusively a consultant. So there is also a very, very strict order of obligations of the members of society and the academic community in relation to state projects, especially those which the state wants to be most prospective, most qualitative. Furthermore, the HAZU Foundation also takes care of foreign training. For all the praises. Again, I ask if there is any coordination, any coordination with sending people to graduates by colleges, scientific institutions, economic operators, etc., etc. I'm not talking about the private sector here, I'm just talking about the public sector. Is it logical that today, at the time of the Internet and all possible aids in the field of information and communication technology, as many as 102 employees in the academy of 225, so 40% approximately, belongs to administrative and auxiliary staff. Whether the book and magazine fund that is ordered and renewed at the academy is conducted in agreement with higher education institutions, with scientific institutions to avoid repeated individual titles, especially when institutions operate within the same city. It's no problem to go to the next library and help yourself that way. Does the Government and its ministries, whether our parliamentary representatives, the Parliament and our committees, especially the National Committee that we are forming intending to include both our academics and our academy in future negotiations in the preparation of pre-accession projects, in the process of approaching the European Union, respecting their experience, their expertise, their knowledge of foreign languages and their numerous relationships with European institutions? Whether scientific councils are mentioned, e.g. in the power of tourism, economy or technological development associated with the tourist community, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of crafts or the competent ministries? What is their cooperation and coordination? It's a very long list, and I've deliberately thrown out some more intriguing questions, but my colleagues and colleagues, I think we also need to approach the report this way, analyze it and watch it this way. In a small country that has relatively weak financial resources we no longer have the right, I repeat, we no longer have the right to parallel systems, to unrelated systems, to the lack of coordination in the segment of development policy, to the inadequate use of our personnel potentials, to education and to perfect staff that are not based on the economic and other developmental, real needs of this country. At least in state institutions, the proportion between scientific and professional in or on administrative staff. We can't interfere in the private sector, but where we can do it. I am personally very sorry that there is no Minister of Science or Minister of Culture here today. He was last year maybe, no, I don't know. That's not good. I think these are important issues, very important issues and we can't cross our knees just from the eye or just a partial look at the parts of this report to approach it in view of the enormous importance of the science segment in Croatia tomorrow. At least I want to believe that because only this segment, as the predecessors said, will enable Croatia to enter into the division of work on our old continent and into a united Europe. But I hope that they will at least review the phonograms with these several discussions and that there will be much more coordination between the academy, the ministry, the science story that we will likely discuss in an hour, two and other state institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38134	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38135	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Academy, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, it is not considered delicious to question the activity of a series of institutions of national importance. However, since Croatian taxpayers will, in the very near future, ask this House for an explanation of the priorities of public costs, so it is rude to start asking questions about whether we are going to be saving on health or on another public activity. I think it's time to start thinking about the purpose and funding of a series of institutions, especially those that are insufficiently known to the public either here or there, known for their steady spiritual excesses. If it is to trust a very scarce report on the work of the Croatian Academy, what we received as a summary... The country spent some 73 million 847 thousand kuna on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say "eye" because we don't have the right information, we just know that the government's stake for HAZU's needs in 2004 was about 90,000 29% of the total. From the state budget, from various ministries. Taking into account the needs of science and art in Croatia, it is not much, but the academy has failed to spend it, and it is said, due to its careful business, I quote: "the surplus of expenditures of 8 million kuna". Otherwise, I completely agree with what counterpart Doric said, I think we need to ask a series of questions about funding the sector within the academy. But here I'm going to say a few things that aren't systematic, that can even be interpreted as subjective. It seems to me that the Croatian Academy should, as an institution, be directed towards more serious projects, and create obstacles to academic... which reached its peak, by a completely unnecessary statement about the position of the Croatian language from February of this year, as if the Croatian language could at all be threatened except by those who would make it a joke object and strangle it with their imaginative neologisms. It seems to me that the scientific public must spare the suspicious symposia as the one of ten days ago about Strossmayer in which it was, watch out for the originality of as many as 8 recommendations on the subject of STRrossmayer and, STRrossmayer and Italians, STRrossmayer and Hungarians, Bulgarians, Macedonians, Russians, Czechs, Slovenians, Slovaks only about them and in that order that one academic mathematician and actually a political marginalist would hold a referendum titled Bishop STRrosmayer, Serbia-Montenegro. As you can see, our academics have a sense of humor, by the way, the only foreign scientist has not appeared among the guests, which in the last decade has defended the dissertation of STrossmayer, which, by the way, is translated into Croatian so that it is no unknown. Far from that, colleagues and colleagues to challenge everything the Croatian Academy is doing, much is excellent but poorly presented, much is good but provincial, but much is either unknown or bad. I will not talk about natural sciences, medicine, a series of art but with authority I say that the academy classes for various humanities, literature and social sciences are average or poor therefore below the level of our limited possibilities. It's not about everyone, but it's about a lot of people. If our goal is excellence especially in science and culture, excellence must be stimulated, that means that we can't be satisfied with such a shocking report in which there isn't, literally there's no programming indication or self-critical thought about the intellectuality that we're not talking about. It seems to me that there's something wrong with the work of an institution that's being set up like that. The fact is that every day this country is increasingly losing weight with world trends in science and culture. If the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts will live on the state's manger and I don't think it has to, we have the right to ask some questions on behalf of those who pay the bill. I hope that next year the report on HAZU's work will be better but I also hope that the responsible ministries will warn the Croatian Academy exactly that it is up to them to generate funds for the work of our Academy which cannot be achieved by stories and good wishes but by critical consideration of resources, opportunities, projects and needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38136	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38137	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, the Honorable Academyman. This Report is a summary of the comprehensive report that is set out in the summer paper, the regular annual publication of the Academy since 887, so I calculate, which is actually its administrative messenger. The report contains data we have heard already in the activities of the academy, regular assemblies and formal sessions as a report on work, the Presidency of the Academy and the Academy Committees. The positive indicators of the Academy's work in the programming and financial sense are visible. It is also important to have the Academy's scientific and research activity especially on the so-called so-called "Student Research". the parent projects, therefore, for those whose research is mainly carried out in the academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the Academy or other scientists from the Academy's institutions and institutions. Activities such as renovation and equipment of library space, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, as well as works on a scientific research project, Croatia and Europe should be provided with the broadest support. In this light I appreciate it is not much to mention the unsatisfactory attitude of Croatian radiotelevision towards monitoring the overall work of the Croatian Academy. It should also be noted that the work of the Academy Committee for International Cooperation then, the international cooperation of the Croatian Academy was very well developed and varied as we could see from this report, and dedicated to the scope and quality of the activities of the representatives of the Academy in international associations. This international activity shows not only enhanced cooperation with academics around the world but also cooperation with existing scientific research and art institutions of international importance, and now slightly different. Since we live in challenging times and the academy is where the wise heads are together, somewhere, I would be happy to read from the following report how the academy is deeply, strategically considering in the national interest that this voice, and that house, is more breaking down because it is very important and necessary. I, as a representative, will now propose something and it is that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts from its social class to its representative in the newly established Croatian Memorial Center of the Homeland War. I think it would be very good, very useful, at the end of that time she has a name of Croatian, from that moment on, not to elaborate another. And finally, in that light, I join all those who will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38138	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38139	Mr. President, distinguished academics, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with an anecdote, when one respected professor from the university I came from was a candidate for a member of the Academy, and it's really the top of our profession, then there were some dilemmas because maybe the respected professor is too young for membership. The spirits calmed down when he was found to be 68 or 69 years old so he could pass. I am speaking this anecdote for the reason why it opens up the concept of what the academy is and what the task is in society, whether it is an honorary place for those who have entrusted this society with their work so far, and certainly in that part it is fulfilling that task, or at least the motto of the development of Croatian society with all the scientific potentials that it has and which should help to solve the many problems that we have as a society in development and transition. In my court, all the respect for the report that I will naturally vote for because I think it shows one developed activity I have an observation that I would like to consider on the bodies of the academy in some way, and that is the question whether the academy is not only its structure, because it may be a pity that it is focused on an older generation than the way it works whether it might give too little to this society. Not because what would be worth academia wouldn't be worth it, smart and top-of-the-line, maybe in some of our segments because it's really about people who have done a lot in science, but it seems to me that it's also a common pain institution that we have too little interaction between the academy and the social community. When I say that, I not only object to the academy but also to the social community, especially state bodies and ministries, for many years. So, I don't think it's a question right now that maybe he's not using up enough of that mind that's concentrated in the academy. There have been mentions here of advice or what is called for the judiciary, administration, etc. The body is meeting but some particular echo in public, so it seems to me even in practical segments of the activities of state institutions and societies I don't see and by what it looks like I'm afraid it won't be. That's why my remarks or my proposal to the academy and those who manage the resources of the state are to think about making better and more use of the academy. She can, she knows it, have potential and think about projects that would help Croatian society right now because Croatian society really needs a lot of science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38140	Thank you very much. Akadamic Cvetnic, do you want the closing word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38141	I would like to thank the gentlemen of the MPs who spoke a lot about the academy today, I repeat a lot because the academy is not a frequent guest in the public stands and the Parliament is still a public tribune and that they spoke sincerely and with a desire to improve the work of the academy further. The Academy is an institution that lasts 144 years with all the pains that such institutions have. That fact has a certain effect on the way the academy is. I'd just like to warn you that this average, which has been a few gentlemen for 73.5 years, applies to academics, not to members of the academy, but to academics. So, to regular members of 150. I would warn that the grotesque active in the full activities of the people at the academy are members of the co-workers. They're normally 50 or part, good work under 50 years. These members of the academy are mostly project holders concerned with which projects academics can also tell their experience consultants or project associates. So that's the fact I wanted to point out. Furthermore, there was an objection to the publishing activity of the Academy. In that sense, two CDs are too small. We are certainly not satisfied with this indicator of the modern publishing activity of the Academy, but from year to year this number will grow and grow and in part and at the expense of the classic editions of ours which were not only 90 this year. That's 90 that the academy has issued directly than 19 more that the Academy co-financed. So, basically 109 editions a year that represents something more than 2 editions a week in an academy that is not a primary publishing institution. Therefore, our goal, our desire is also the need at the end of the strings to be as many CDs as possible and less as possible paper editions of consciousness to the possibility that it accepts. I would like to thank Mr. Cosic, who was very active both last year and last year with his useful suggestions and with the desire to advance the academy. I remember the numbers, literally Mr. Representative this year repeated for the 500 declaration. You still said there'd be 50 of them, and that would be too little, 50 grand, not 500. However, the academy is moving at a speed that can be moved within the frameworks in which it moves. There was another remark on the number of administrative members at the academy. So it doesn't turn out that the academy building has a hundred and a few administrators. Not at all, not at all. I would remind again that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts has 19 units of its own with the administration of the Academy which have been located as we have seen in nine or ten cities. Each of these needs to have its own guard if nothing else, to have two or more of its firefighters, Trieste specifically. Therefore, these are the administrators who drowned in the total number of academy workers. I'd only be if you'd allow it, there's no Mr. Bantz but he objected to writing that in the eye report in the financial report. This financial report that you received, which is a summary of 7 hundred pages of the yearbook, may indicate an approximation. They did not take the last thousand or the last ten thousand in that sum, but in the Academy's report, the financial report that is contained in the yearbook each kuna application from the Government or from the State, from the budget or obtained otherwise is justified. Therefore, there is not a single lip that is not justified. I would also like to thank you for the numerous suggestions that I will report to the administration first and then the administration will put on the presidency what they consider useful. I would just like to point out that very useful suggestions have also come from Professor Josipovic, who will also be discussed at the academy's administration. I thank you once again for your wish to debate and, if I may say, for your support of the report submitted by the Croatian Academy to you in short but also in the form of the yearbooks delivered to the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38142	I thank and conclude the debate. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2004. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am giving the opinion. A report on HZU's work in 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 88 votes for, 3 abstentions, one against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38145	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try as quickly as possible to present the report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2004 in which HABOR as a state development and export bank successfully operated not only financially but also in what is more important, an active sense of support for the Croatian economy. First of all, I would like to stress that this financial report and the business report have been confirmed by an independent audit, i.e. an audit house of international reputation... , that the Croatian Government confirmed this report at a meeting on 20 May this year and also the Committee on Economic Affairs and Parent Committee on Finance and the State Budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total balance sheet amount of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 31 December 2004 was 11 billion and 760 million kuna, which is around 14% more than at the end of 2003, therefore, last year. The total loans granted were therefore 3 billion 253 million in 2004 and the total guarantees issued, i.e. 2 billion and 85 million guarantees, so the total HABOR activity in the financial sense in 2004 was 5 billion, 338 million kuna. At the end of 2004, capital amounted to around 4 billion and 580 million kuna and was about 39% of the total balance sheet sum. Total revenues were around 670 million, total expenditures of 530 million and profit shown at the end of the reporting period, i.e. in 2004 amounted to around 136 million kuna. Credit rating at the end of 2004, i.e. in December was raised at the same time as the Croatian state per mudis per baa3 and per standard... 3b. I must stress that HABOR is a member... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , Associations of Central and Eastern European banks and the Prague Club of Associations and Export Insurance agencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the last year, we started opening district offices to get as close as possible to the users of HABOR's credits, so we opened regional offices, in Split, Pula and Osijek, and we plan to open three other regional offices in Gospić, Rijeka and Dubrovnik this year. I must stress that one in the past year, one program has had an extremely large increase compared to the previous year in 2003, it is a programme of preparation for export goods that has exceeded our plasma levels 350 times in the previous year and we think it is extremely significant. Finally, they can say that the increase in Croatian exports in 2004, of about 17%, is likely to have an impact on either the result and work of the HABOR in encouraging exports or in ensuring exports from political or commercial risks. In terms of promotion of exports, we also signed two framework agreements with the Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Prior Bank of Belarus, so we opened framework credit lines where it is possible to borrow any goods of Croatian origin in those two countries. We work and negotiate with and negotiate similar framework contracts with similar banks. The secured export turnover from the political and commercial risks was around 600 million kuna and there was an increase of 190% compared to the previous year. I must stress that four compensations from about half a million kuna or 500 thousand kuna have been paid. I would like to stress that the HABOR behind the issued export insurance policies stands, so unless it is charged by the buyer of the Croatian product that we pay for the damages. Romania's resecuritisation agreement with the OkB, the Austrian Bank and Hermes, the German insurance agency was declared by a prominent magazine of trade and... Work of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we were with these respectable institutions in the business of the year. Five agreements were signed with the export banks, the export credit agencies of Bulgaria, Peru, Russia, Morocco and Tunisia, and at the end of 2004 we had signed 27 agreements. I must point out one agreement that I believe is very important for the future and foreign investment and Croatian investment abroad, it is a signed contract with MIGO, a specialized World Bank institution to encourage investment. On the basis of this signed agreement with MIGO, all investment by foreign investors in Croatia can therefore be resecured, with the international financial institution and also with the possibility of resecuring investments by Croatian companies abroad. In fact, we see the problems facing major Croatian companies that want to take over 10, 15 or 20% of the country's market share that it simply does not go without investment and job creation in those countries. Also with the Ministry of Agriculture, we have prepared a programme for lending long-term crops and a programme for crediting the development of cattle production in terms of protecting Croatian agriculture by bringing Croatia closer, by entering European Union membership. In February 2004, we issued the euro bonds of 300m euros, which are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and for the first time in the Zagreb Stock Exchange, allowing Croatian investors to trade and buy HABOR bonds on the secondary bond market. Seminars for beginners where we try to attract them as much as possible and to invest in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmanship in 2004, about 700 participants passed and so far we have over 2200 participants passed through these HABOR seminars. HABOR has also been in its position and aims to make regional efforts to develop Croatia's economy more evenly, has concluded a contract with the town of Gospić and the town of Knin on special support and promotion of entrepreneurship in these areas. And here's the last thing I'm going to say is something that we've already said for almost half a year, this year 2005. Three other agreements were signed with the Austrian OKB, the Jordanian agency and the Chinese agency "Cinea Shore" last week. A new programme for crediting the preparation of the tourist season has been introduced where we credit the season only for the purchase of Croatian products, wanting to connect Croatia north and south as much as possible. Then with the Environment Fund of Croatia we concluded an agreement on subsidising interest rates in credit programmes intended for environmental protection, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. HABOR, the first in the Republic of Croatia last year, becomes a member of the United Nations Environment Programme's financial initiative. A new programme for crediting environmental, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects and a partnership agreement for technical support between HABOR and USED has been introduced. The EUR 160 million union loan contract of HABOR reached an interest rate of "juribor" increased only by 35 basis points per year. This is the cheapest funding that has been achieved not only by HABOR but by any banking and financial institution of the Republic of Croatia. And here at the end, but it was at the beginning of this year, so in January 2005, we reduced the interest rates for future loans, but also that it might be the first time in the history of Croatian banking that we reduced the interest rates to previously approved loans, which is not a significant amount. So it's about the principal loan of 2 billion and 200 million kuna for 448 loan users. The export rate for these previously approved loans was reduced to 5% annually and for all other users 7%. In this way, HABOR gave up around 330 million kunas of already possible incomes, hence contracted revenues, thus seeking to encourage Croatian businessmen to use these relief funds to modernise, create new jobs and invest in promotion, special promotion of Croatian products exports. And finally one, one novelty related to the discussion of the previous point of integration of science and economy. We are introducing a programme of lending of inventions and technical improvements because we see that this is the only possibility for Croatia or the Croatian economy to increase exports but also to strengthen the position of Croatian businessmen on our domestic market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38146	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Oh, no? The Committee on Economic Development and Reconstruction. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38147	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the administration, colleagues and colleagues. These days we've heard enough about all the reports with completely different grades. And if I can evaluate it myself then this report can be a synthesis of positive assessments that has good packaging, but also good content. However, whatever is well prepared, Mr. President-in-Office, it seems to me that even better in the next report, or the reporting period, should be slightly cleaned from cumulative data, so that we can concentrate on the reporting period so that we can make better assessments during that period that were extremely characteristic. That is why, from a somewhat expanded report, I am only obliged to or I consider it necessary to say in the introduction that the bank was formed in 1992 with two basic objectives: reconstruction and development and even development of the state. And why do I say that in the introduction? It is precisely because in 2004 it is seen even more as we heard in the next period that in fact HABOR's jobs are adapted to the time and tasks in which it is perfectly normal when the reconstruction phase is completed to move to the development phase, so here are exports, so interest and everything else which, of course, makes a whole new content in the business of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We heard enough about the activities in the previous year, and I think that we are mostly satisfied with it and that the bank is implementing its objectives and programmes that have been adopted during the year. Characteristic for this period that small and medium-sized enterprises have been covered as well as so far. That they have even become involved in the development of business zones, which also makes new content especially in equal regional development, and I mean that municipal part that is also in the previous year, but also in the future period should be accepted. Then long-term plantations, this is an adjustment for the speed of approaching Europe possibly so that the interests of Croatian society can also be achieved in this area and that it can also develop evenly. We heard that the contributions, in particular, point out and I commend the contribution to the development of the capital market, especially the domestic capital market, because it is only gradually being stalked and this is a significant contribution to the market. I also highlight the specific network and new development in the Croatian state, but also networking in a whole series of similar credit banks and agencies in the world to achieve the goal especially of providing a source, of course, part of it, and even more about the placement of our products and services to foreign markets. In the previous year, we particularly highlight the activity of export insurance, lending and export insurance without carrying out the number of individual cases achieved and the total amount but the specific activity because it seems to me when we consider the report that exports to these, in this year in any case, in this reporting year, in any case in a correlation between the credit funds paid through HABOR and by the results achieved in 2004. I believe that this increase in export insurance and direct export lending will produce even greater results during this period, in 2005, as the effects overlap over the next reporting year so that I am already particularly emphasising this particular importance. We saw the total balance sheet mass increased about 14%. I'll get the data, of course, from memory. Somewhere around 14%, which speaks of a significant increase in the balance sheet mass of total assets during that period. Of course, one part of the source is, we've seen from the unioned loans, from the emissions, from the funds that were entered from the outside but also that in the next period we're going to consider and certainly increase those funds to achieve that goal. The difference from about 136 million gets maybe just a brief look at it. It's won. Of course, it is mostly made out of interest and other incomes. This policy to reduce interest means that then in 2005, I remind myself that we remember then that it has been determined to reduce interest that we will, of course, have some and fewer results. It can possibly be objected that these enlargement funds can then be financed by even more exporters or more long-term plantations, however, it appreciates that in this period, new beginners still do not have a significant incentive to make such a reduced interest. In particular, we highlight the area of special concern which is precisely through this system and reduced interest, but also allocated funds in this area can achieve some results. In that sense, through this profit and through the politics of new interest, I support this report. We also believe that in the coming year this report should be based on this policy or on the results that we will achieve through this and through this financial effect which ultimately gives extraordinary good results. All together testifys that this report compared to these reports we have heard so far has a completely different reflection on events in society and that these effects have been achieved. We may have been looking into it, but there's still some sort of cost-to-cost correlation, because the report shows that there's been an increase in costs. But the important thing is that those with only 9% and slightly slower growth has more than the balance sheet mass and than the profit achieved. We therefore support such work, support such a report, and I think that without specific remarks from the HDZ, this report may propose and support adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38148	Thank you very much. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38149	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I will briefly refer to the annual financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Although I think the work should be analysed from the establishment of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in order to get the right picture of work. It is known that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was founded in 1992 with a strategic goal of supporting the reconstruction and development of the Republic of Croatia with an emphasis on promoting the development of areas of special state care and island. Its tasks are set out in the guidelines towards the taking of activities, financing and insurance of exports, financing the development of the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises and infrastructure projects. As its objectives and tasks are set in the long term, the success of its achievements must also be analysed and measured through long-term characteristics parameters. The effects of the activities taken will be measurable and will be able to be evaluated significantly later. In this context, this 2004 report should be seen as part of a segment of multiannual long-term work. It is part of the continuity, and if watched for itself, a complete picture is lost. The financial results of HABOR's operations in 2004 were very good although compared with previous years and with earlier years, from which the trend of growth and rise in work is seen. The HABOR has also done business according to the audit report in accordance with the legal rules and international accounting standards. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has achieved its tasks in particular in the area of strengthening activity and promoting exports through business co-operation with international agencies through joint exit to third markets and through exchange of information, experience and knowledge. For his activities, HABOR received international recognition and raised his credit ratings. All this suggests that HABOR is on track for achieving its objectives and tasks. However, there are many global general indicators in the report itself, and much space has been given to financial reports from the point of view of the profession and auditors. I believe that the reports discussed by representatives in the Croatian Parliament should be tailored to the needs of those who are intended for them, which is in this case to see if the objectives of the establishment of HABOR are realised. So, for example. from the data that 1,82 billion kuna credits have been granted for export financing, we do not see which companies have received loans or at least what activities, in which regions, these assets, which are products that we are export-stimulating, have gone to. It's the same situation with other credit programs. For example, for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises 175 million kunas were granted. But what activities do they produce or serve? Are Zagreb or areas of special state concern? It is commendable that 24 seminars were held in 2004 for beginner entrepreneurs and 672 were successfully completed but only in Zagreb and Split. But what about the other cities? Couldn't they have distributed more equally territorially? The tendency to reduce interest rates is significant, even if it is a burden to reduce profits. But it would be interesting to compare how much funds are granted at an interest rate of 2%, how much 4% or 6 and 7. That is, by categories of users and the purpose of investments. The interest of citizens of future entrepreneurs and the opening of several district offices by county, according to the report in December 2004, opened in Pula and this year in Osijek. It's commendable compared to last year. I know that opening up district offices requires resources, space and personnel. But shouldn't the same objectives and direction of activity be used in a business of interest and agreement to exploit the potentials of existing state institutions. In doing so, I'm thinking of FINA, HAMAG, at the opening of these district offices. With regard to the common business interests, I have a question to what extent there is co-operation between the programmes that encourage the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Agriculture and the programmes loaned by HABOR. This would reduce costs, increase efficiency and find the right programmes to be encouraged and developed. Perhaps it would be good to draw up a report on the state and development of entrepreneurship, small economy and exports that would unite the activities of all state institutions and services dealing with this problem. This would result in a full picture and picture of the situation in the area and help to identify the objectives, directions and development strategies, and I am sure that more rational means could be spent. That could be initiated by HABOR. Finally, I believe that the report should show in detail indicators in certain areas of the regions and activities because the strategic objective of the creation of HABOR is to fund regional orientation in order to balance the development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, from a financial and professional banking point of view, the report is fine and I suggest that it be accepted as such with additional clarifications and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38150	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38151	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. Here are also a few words about the 2004 HABOR report. What is visible from the very context of the report is that HABOR achieves strategic goals and main directions of activity already outlined the establishment of the 1992 HKBO then. This is, as has already been said, support for the restoration, development of the economy, balanced regional integrated regional development and of course concerns and promotion of exports of small and medium-sized enterprises and the financing of infrastructure projects. So from 1992 to 2004, a total of 41 billion kunas of loans and guarantees were granted, which we will agree on, is not limited. In 2004, HABOR concluded business cooperation agreements with 6 foreign banks and export credit agencies with the aim of strengthening trade and economic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the signatories of those agreements. According to the programme of crediting the preparation of exports and the exports of goods themselves in 2004, over a billion and 300 million loans were granted at an interest rate of 4% at an annual level, which is an acceptable interest. Export traffic has been secured for 336 customers in 33 countries. And the total value of export turnover in 2004 for that segment is 596 million kuna. I think it is good that HABOR also continues to organise seminars for all applicants for loans, for the loan for beginners, and thus far since 2001 over 2,000 participants have gone through that training and I am sure that they have learned that in other cases and elsewhere they could not. In order to support and reduce interest rates on loans selected in previous years to 5% of exporters, other economic operators to 7%, as it also relieves the economy and we know what interest rates were in previous years. The business result of HBOR is positive and that is 136.3 million kuna and it is therefore in its own way an indicator of the quality of HBOR's work. At the end of 2004, the total balance sheet amount increased by 13.8% compared to the same date of the previous year and that rate is higher than the rate of increase in the number of employment and than the rate of increase in operating costs, thus containing general administrative and other costs. What I would particularly like to support is the continuation of the organisation, i.e. the continuation of the establishment of regional district offices because I believe that it is really necessary to bring the offers of HBOR credits and programmes to end-users, so to entrepreneurs, and as it was done in Pula at the end of last year, in Osijek this year, I believe that this should continue in other mainly county centres in Croatia. Here I would like to conclude my debate, of course I suggest we support the 2004 HBOR Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38152	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38153	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, President-in-Office of the Board, colleagues and fellow MPs. According to the provisions of the HBOR Act, the government has assessed positively last year's financial report. We also had opportunities to see a positive assessment of the international auditory house... And I also believe that today's debate in Parliament will give a positive assessment. [[You don't understand.]] When we talk about an analysis of the financial reports provided in the balance sheet in 2003 and 2004, they are in fact the basis of all financial analyses to calculate the success of the HBOR whether it is liquidity, asset value, capital, etc. etc. The review of the report gives us actually the data of continued credit growth and net assets by... it also means growth in total lending. Given the net profit of 136 million 343 thousand kuna for the past year, it was found that HBOR had successfully done business, but I must note that compared to 2003, this actually means a 20% reduction. All these years, HBOR has implemented projects to develop the Croatian economy through export-enhancing programmes, financing the development of economic activities, fostering small and medium-sized enterprises and financing infrastructure projects. Since it is a state bank, I believe it is necessary to observe the impact of the HBOR on the public sector and on the budget, and it is desirable to argue the positive impact of the HBOR on the overall budgetary process because it plays a role on the entire Croatian economy, i.e. the macroeconomic fiscal policy is being implemented. When we talk about HBOR, I actually raise the issue of export activities in Croatia that need to be financially strongly supported because they reduce the budget deficit as such most successful. We're getting an answer. The growth of tourism traffic in recent years confirms that Croatia is on the way to tourism becoming an active generator of economic development, and tourism is one of the largest drivers of economic development in the Republic of Croatia and is a key component of the national economy and foreign trade. Tourism represents about 22% of Croatia's GDP and 40% of total exports, respectively. From this very report, I couldn't see how a package of credit programs is in this most important export branch, so tourism. With a review of the other materials available on the Internet or on some other materials, I noticed strong incentives in the program "Incentive to Success" as you called it from October 1st 2002 to October 2005 in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism. The objectives of this programme were certainly the growth of employment, the development of small family entrepreneurship, the prevention of gray economy, and then there was an increase in capacity with three and more stars in tourism, the construction of new facilities, quality content, extension of the season, etc. etc. So that the data actually needed for this financial analysis wasn't available for the past year then I did a little data review from this year so that I could compare it to the balance sheet of last year's report. That's how it is, for example. In the first quarter of this year, 53 million kuna credits were granted precisely for this programme a boost for success, and since this year HBOR has also launched a program credit for the preparation of the tourist season and has invested 10 million kuna credit this year as far as I have found the data in this placement. According to all other credit programmes for tourism from HBOR, around 295 million kuna loans for investment investments by hotel and tourist companies have been granted under the support scheme of the tourism sector this year. As far as we had the opportunity to hear from the president of the HBOR administration today, the credit activity for the past year was about 5 billion kuna, and in fact the question arises whether larger programme investments would be in the largest export activity, so Croatian tourism and its complementary activities would also represent a smaller Croatian deficit. Of course, positive and necessary programmes are favourable long-term lending that will facilitate the establishment of a long-term financial balance between all other economic operators and thus increase stability, business performance, create better conditions for the entry of economic operators, therefore, into new investments. HBOR's financial indicators are positive even though HBOR operates positively, we in the Assembly are useful information about the overall additional financial effects of business entities in which HBOR has placed credit funds. I believe that's not a difficult question, it's measurable through the business of these companies as a center of responsibility. It can be analyzed by their... or any return from capital in view of the market value of HBOR’s capital invested in these entities. [[You don't understand.]] I think that just like this report, which would be an integral part of this report, would also be useful for parliamentary representatives, and I believe for competent parent committees on finance and other committees. Then we can... talk about meeting the strategic goals of the existence of HBOR and its impact on the number one Croatian strategic issue as I said, and there is, above all, a reduction in the budget deficit. The remaining question was how could the HBOR actually retain its historical dominant role. What makes it special to other banking, banking and not banking financial institutions, I primarily think of pension funds, insurance companies, investment funds and other commercial banks. We could have noticed that this decade was marked almost... growth in financial development, deregulation and financial liberalisation of financial institutions place capital beyond their borders. [[You don't understand.]] So capital doesn't really represent monopoly anymore today. Today, the success of any company, region and state depends on the ability to attract people who achieve results. In obtaining and retaining quality people, the existing strategic issue is number one. Today, as I said, capital is no longer... power, capable individuals are running all processes and are the key to competitiveness and this proves that knowledge is a new battlefield for both corporations and states and I believe that the HBOR will adapt to the strategic specifics that are necessary for the development of the Republic of Croatia in its future credit programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38154	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Board, I will not, as my colleagues have been saying in principle and watching the financial report so far, try to say a few principled words about the report, which we received from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I will say this for the following reasons, which I believe in the Republic of Croatia, in the next period, it is necessary to give maximum care to all the economic branches that develop production, which encourage production and which develop exports and encourage export operations. That is why I will also look back on those main strategic goals that are in the establishment of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which are also put into development, meaning the basis of the Croatian Bank. This is the support for the restoration and development of the Croatian economy and regional orientation of funds to balance the development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Also, basic about Croatia, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development should also say the main routes of activity, which are activities towards export financing, export insurance, financing for the development of economic activities, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and the financing of infrastructure projects. Which is why I listed these few things and the main one, meaning the economic motto that the Republic of Croatia should have and all the institutions that are within the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia as a whole? That's why I think every kuna that's earned out through exports, which is earned and in, so gross national income came from production to be worth double. That is why I must stress that in this report I am very pleased with the strengthening, meaning, all the activities that it speaks of incentivises exports, means expanding business cooperation with export banks and export credit agencies, lending exporters and ensuring that all the export operations of the Republic of Croatia, but also the third International Conference for the Promotion of Exports held in Croatia. I would also like to say that, during the 2004 report, HABOR granted a total of 1.3 billion kuna of credit to Croatian exporters, at a 4% interest rate, which is in any case commendable. So, in the engagement given to Croatian businessmen. I would also like to say that to commend for the implementation of the Export Credit Programme is indicative of credit lines, foreign customers' banks. It also praised the total insurance of export traffic during 2004, meaning for 336 buyers in 33 countries. Also, the total value of the export turnover secured during 2004 amounting to 596 million kuna. These are the basic things that the Bank for Reconstruction and Development was dealing with last year, and I believe that this is all praiseworthy and that it should continue to encourage the Bank to continue to develop such programmes. But what is most important and thanks to the Bank for Reconstruction, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is something that has never practically happened in these areas so far. And that's a reduction in interest rates, so for all the credit parties that used to be agreed. Today we can think about the economy, but only in one way, which is the availability of funds that will be imputed through the cheapness of credit obligations. So if 2% is lower interest on loans, 2% can increase the overall economic potential of the Republic of Croatia. And for this very reason, I believe that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has started to achieve its strategic goals in the course of this year and I encourage it to go even further towards such, meaning, strategically, developing this strategic goal, reducing interest and potentiating all export and production activities in the Republic of Croatia. Because that is the only way we can restore the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38156	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38157	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Management of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, colleagues and colleagues. Reading and thinking about the report itself, I join the committee, clubs and representatives' views when it comes to assessing work and financial reports for 2004. Over the past 13 years, we can say, and here we can agree that the bank has fulfilled all its obligations, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decisions, but we can say that in the meantime it has become a respectable financial institution, valued in domestic business circles, and as we can see in the financial circles of Europe and the world. I am pleased that I come from Dalmatia Zagora that the bank has made a great effort from its draft to today when it comes to the even development of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. areas such as Dalmatia Zagora, such as our islands, which, unfortunately, have always been economically inferior. As far as the breeders themselves are concerned, as we can see from the report themselves, they were going in two directions. On the one hand, when it comes to municipal infrastructure, rebuilding and investing in capital facilities, and on the other hand investment in the economy itself. Let me be in a way that I'm saying this now to be out of context. It's about investing in municipal infrastructure out there in '93, '94, '95, '96. Introduction to supply in the region of Dalmatia Zagora, Imotski Sinj, etc. Where the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and under the cap, in some ways, Croatian Waters invested significant resources, but all obligations towards the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development service Croatian Waters. I must say that this relationship is 70:30 where the end users are, so the units of local self-government and municipal society are carried, i.e. they are bound by these loans 70% and 30% Croatian water. It is outside of existing models and beyond any models that are present when it comes to the development of water supply and disposal. In particular, in mountain and mountain areas and areas of special state concern. That's what happened, and I'm also in last year's report, and I'm gonna have to do it again. As of 31.12.2004, this amount for the area I'm talking about is 120 million kuna. If the county had given, units of local self-government guarantee, and a super guarantee in some way, the County of Split-Dalmatia gave it a super guarantee. I would take the opportunity to appeal to the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia to see the problem. To try to resolve it would be my suggestion that in one triangle the Ministry of Finance, Croatian Water, County with assistance in some way representatives from that area try to find a solution because the units of local self-government and municipal societies prevent any development, any strategic borrowing in terms of development and work zones, etc. This is not a matter of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, this is a problem that we need to solve at other levels, as I said. And I hope that we will be in a position where those areas where water supplies were being dealt with by the World Bank loan when the state de facto wrote off the full claims of those areas. You wouldn't want to talk about the areas now. Let me go back to the subject of what we're talking about and very briefly. I would welcome the Croatian Bank's policy for reconstruction and development when it comes to the development of the economy, mainly small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Namely, if you're looking for a car loan for some import goods, it's not a problem to get it. However, if you open a craft, if you open a company, the company then there is an x problem and de facto there is no bank that will follow it in a quality and appropriate way. And to sort of make it easier for those first steps of those who are resting, who are somehow entering the world of business. In this regard, I believe that the Croatian Bank, with adequate monitoring, but also consulting services it provides, along with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with the Ministry of Economy, the Association of Employers in Education and Professional Assistance, has also received good results. On this occasion, I, not only for the total results achieved by the bank in these past 13 years, would congratulate the President of the Administration and all the employees and narrow management of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in such a policy and such an approach, in terms of reviving the Croatian economy and creating a competitive economy. I would certainly welcome the reduction of interest rates in 2004, and when it comes to the analytical representation that should be present, I am reserved there, because we could come to one position that... where the bank has placed funds in which areas and not from the programs that have been delivered, we could come to me as representatives in one situation, I still have 15 seconds, that in some way these data, or some of our thinking can go the wrong way. Most of the time, I think their job that they're doing is that it's been pretty transparent and that all the data is now available to us. Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you all for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-02-0.u38158	Thank you very much. Does the board president want it? If you hold that necessary, go ahead, if you hold that necessary then. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate, tomorrow continues at 9.30 with the theme Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and further according to agenda points. I interrupt the session, resume at 9:30 tomorrow. Annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2004. I am voting to confirm the annual financial reports of the HBOR for 2004. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 87 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed decision was made.
