ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42812	We are crossing and proposing a united debate for the 4th and 5th points of the agenda. So: 4. Proposal for a law on the election of mayors, mayor of Zagreb, mayor and municipal chiefs, first reading of P.Z. No. 330; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And 5. Proposal for a law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading P.Z. No. 311. Proposer of the Law is the Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Government representative State Secretary Mr. Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42813	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the programme for the term of office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia prescribed and introduced the direct election of mayors, mayors of Zagreb, mayors and European mayors. She also took the same commitment to herself in the National Programme for Local Self-Government, which was presented to the local and international public at a regional ministerial conference held in late 1994 and which is as such, as a national programme, one of the Council of Europe documents. Here is the Government meeting all its obligations and proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of laws on the direct selection of mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb, mayors and municipal mayors. It proposes in a regular procedure as a bill with the intention to debate the law thoroughly. In order to achieve a consensus in this esteemed House on at least the principles that the law should regulate and concepts to introduce a single newspaper into the Croatian political system that we believe will further improve local self-government in Croatia and perhaps reduce tension after the local elections that have been made as foreseen by the law at the regular time of the third week of May 2009. The law is basically simple. He prescribes conditions that must be met by a candidate who is competing or competing, running for the election of these duties. It also provides for the incompatibility of duties at the same time which cannot be treated simultaneously with the duties of mayors, mayors of Zagreb, mayors and municipal mayors. It also sets deadlines for candidacy. It also stipulates that a number of signatures should be attached in addition to the application, given the large difference in the number of inhabitants of individual units of local self-government or regional self-government. The number of signatures is ranging from a minimum of 100 for the municipal chief to 2000 for the mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb. This Law also includes a model to be chosen, to be considered the elected mayor, mayor and municipal chief not to repeat myself, which won 50% vote in the election, and if no one wins in the area of that unit of local self-government 50% of the vote, then the second round of elections is held within 14 days and two candidates who received the highest number of votes are competing in the second round. So it's a classic majority electoral system, analogy and election for the President of the Republic. However, this Law contains and the achievements can be said in the development of the electoral system over the past year and a half so that it regulates and fund campaigns, i.e. the source of the collection of funds for election promotion, analoguely as the Law on the financing of the promotion for the election of the President of the Republic. It balances the composition of election committees as has been resolved by the Law on Local Elections. Certainly taught by bad experience after closing the vote in the presidential elections because of the misjudgement of external polls around, about expected election results. We have reduced electoral silence the way it was arranged in the local elections. So we allow exit polls, but we also allow the publication of temporary and unofficial results immediately after the polls are closed. We of course also prescribe legal conditions if you stop the mandate of the directly elected executive to call them so generically. And we allow the possibility that they can be resolved. This law does not address the relationship between a representative body that is also directly or directly elected and we do not resolve the possibility of conflict because of various political options, although it is not necessary that, as long as the conflict is caused by different political options, it is possible that the project of local interest can also be joined and agreed and agreed on by all policy options, and it is also possible for the same parties to have conflicts that are of a personal nature. So that relationship between the representative body and the elected leader, the executive authority holder, will be resolved by the law on local self-government. Amendments to the law on local self-government which must follow after this law is discussed in the second reading and adopted, and certainly before its application, because we believe that after the next regular elections, when representative executive bodies are already formed, that process must remain until the next regular elections. In the event of disbanding the representative body during the term of office, the extraordinary elections would be conducted under the applicable Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government and, after such elections, the representative body would then be elected by the mayor and the municipal chief. However, although this is a technical law that speaks of elections, it is not possible to avoid opening controversy and discussing a possible relationship, we will therefore listen carefully to the debate. As you can see, I'm here, and now my associates will come. We'll listen carefully to the debate. The ideas put forward here will be evaluated and considered and, if not for the final proposal of this Act, it will certainly be useful for us to make future amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, how to resolve possible conflicts, in addition to the law of those reasons for the termination of the mandate, to provide for other opportunities and to resolve mutual conflicts between the representative and the state body. We gave the law early. So, to repeat what I said in the final word, we did not give a bill with a delay of effect, but, however, we gave the law early to be unburdened by expectations in the next elections that should be, is that, as it often happens, that election models change directly, or upgrade directly before elections, here we have now given it early enough to discuss in peace with all aspects the consequences that this Law would produce and so that we could, in the first reading, look at all possible problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42814	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the HNS Club, PGS, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42815	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have offered one law to regulate elections for members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and the direct selection of leaders of these same units of local and regional self-government, because we do not consider it necessary for each electoral duty, function, body to pass specific regulations, as I recall it was often also said in this assembly that Croatia might need an electoral code to regulate the practical overall matter of choice. Now, however, this is one different approach for each election phase or cycle or model we bring or get proposals from special laws. So, we predicted the elections every 3rd week in May, every 4th year, as was the practice so far, with the incompatibility of our duties going to the system that one person can only be in one representative body, on one duty and with all the incompatibility that the Government has given in its proposal, we have added only one more, and that is the parliamentary representatives, because we do not think that it should, should not and should not be good for one person to be double or triple duty, as we now have cases, so one is allowed, the other is not. The mayors are forbidden, the mayors of the big cities allowed. We also resolved the Law on the Rights of National Minorities their representation in representative bodies, and the system of running or political party or independent list, with the fact that in the number of signatures that independent lists should collect, we did not go to numbers like the Government gave, but we went to 1% of the electorate from the previous local elections, but not less than 100, because we believe that this limit is up to 1% appropriate, understandable and necessary just taking account of past elections experience. For the representative body, the election model is proportionate, for leaders predicted by two, possibly three rounds of voting, which could be a questionable proposal. Either we accept two circles or a cube, like in some other countries when there are no results in the first or second round. The candidates for the leaders, so we went to the mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipalities, and we didn't go to the government's proposal system that the candidates had their deputies, but we went to the system that the candidates for the leaders went to the polls, and we regulated these laws before they had their assistants. The law that we have just finished discussing as a whole has been regulated by relations with the representative body and the possibility of recalling such directly elected leaders. Since there have already been a lot of speeches in the debate at the previous agenda point on this election model that we have offered, some solutions that can be problematic not only in our proposal, but also in the Government's bill allow a brief comment. The first problem was also fear of co-habitation. What if the mayor of Osijek is going to be from one political option, and most of the city council of Osijek is supposed to have someone else? And this was shown in the debate as a deadly grave danger and the possibility of the decomposition of local self-government to, it was said not to offer it as a solution. If the bill is carefully read, then those who would like to prevent cohabitation or cause early elections, whether for a representative body, or for a leader, are exposed, firstly, to a very high risk and in case of failure of their initiative, pay an extremely high price. So if the law is read, then it's quite clear. To what extent the representative body initiates the impeachment, and the citizens in the referendum do not accept the recall of the head man, then the representative body falls, which is logical and normal. It won't be easy for anyone to get their hands on that weapon unless they're sure it'll work in the referendum. And there's got to be a fuse set up to stop what we've got today. We have cohabitations today that are not the result of the election, but of something else and we are talking about cohabitation as a danger, and at the same time we do not want to admit that what we have now is far more dangerous and worse and more devastating for the entire system of local and regional self-government. So when cohabitation is regulated by law and the relationship is set, then the problem. When it's a wild cohabitation, then it's legal and good, then here we only argue about who offered more, who took more or who got more, as a key problem of it. Furthermore, a question has been raised and even a claim has been made that the choice, the direct choice of the leader, creates double costs. What's that for? The election takes place on the same day, in the same polling stations, with the same election committees and the same election committees. Double costs are just for another small ballot, and that's all, so you draw from that and the double cost claim is the fear of the people, the voters, nothing else or an understanding of the electoral model and the process. Furthermore, two rounds of elections for the head, for the mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality. It is true that in Europe, not all states have an absolute majority in the first round. The French model is set so that in the first round more than 25% is required and do not go to the second round and do not ask for more than 50%. The French direct choice model when it's 1:1, so the majority system. However, given that in Croatia, in all other elections that are directly and with the head of state, there is a majority, therefore more than half, it would be illogical for us to propose to the local self-government French model. But if someone thinks the second round of choices is so expensive and bad that it doesn't have to go to them, then we have to say that we accept the decision 25%. However, the second round can be problematic for another reason, not financial, but another. They warn experts that the basic rule of choice is that elections must be completed one day, the same day. If in one week we have elections for members of the representative body and leaders, the representative body has succeeded, for the leader we go to the second round of elections only in two weeks, so the elections will be extended in two weeks and say the election results for the representative body can affect the results of the election in the second round for the main man when there are two left. Whether it's in itself negative or not, it's a matter of assessment, but that's why experts warned that such an approach does not satisfy that rule that elections must be held on the same day. The referendum as the third reason for the expensive price, the high cost. Who now pays the price of the situation where local self-government hasn't been established? Who pays the price of non-functioning local self-government after these local elections? What benefit do citizens benefit from the elections being over or not being established or disintegrated before they start working, so there will be extraordinary elections? And what's more expensive than that? And how is it that everything that should be and give citizens the opportunity to be the last to decide is too expensive, but everything that should be decided by Zagreb and the metropolis or by me in Parliament is understood that it is not expensive. Whenever we approach a citizen's voter, we call for great costs. We're scaring people that the state is going to go bankrupt because of it. But in other points of waste and spending money, it's not an argument to ask each other what we're actually doing. And the fourth argument against it is a small voter response to local elections. And why was there a little response? Because according to the current model, people didn't know who they were choosing. Because they voted for the lists, not the people. Because it wasn't a personalized campaign in the most part and because the representative body didn't have those people who were first on the lists because they were... carriers, because they were hiding those actually who came later into the representative bodies. Because people are fed up with these kinds of choices because they realize that the elections do not choose the leadership of their municipalities, cities and counties, because it is quite different from what they have decided in the elections. And here if we offer them the choice of the first man, be assured that able candidates can mobilize the electorate. In its opinion, the government has certainly proposed to the Parliament not to accept our draft law with the use of two strong arguments, although it says that our law is substantive and nomotechnical in basic quality material that can certainly make a significant contribution to the parliamentary debate. The first reason why he doesn't accept our proposal is next. "Proposed solutions", I quote, "related to the direct choice of the executive body at local level which is also a fundamental difference compared to the existing legal solutions affecting both the domain that regulates and the basic Law on Local and Regional Self-Government" and we proposed it in the package. So we immediately put that proposal into which this one is so deeply entrenched. The second argument "The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that partial proposals for changes in the basic concept without prior harmonisation of the provisions contained in several organic laws that prescribe various segments of local self-government are not only directed but are not even feasible without in practice causing additional difficulties." We proposed both laws that are complemented, said when they enter into force that this system does not touch and says the government is offering a partial solution, but the government that offered to amend the existing Law on Local Self-Government on the old model of choice offers a new electoral system is saying unpartially and giving complete solutions. I may have something wrong with my health these days, so I got it wrong, but if someone offered a partial solution this time it was really government's approach to that more than in the Law on Local, Change, it was second reading and the rest of the first reading. And I'll finish the next one. Do we, with these laws offered by the government and our bill proposals, offer a complete solution to local self-government and only in the section of the election? No, I don't. That's not true. Neither the government's concept nor our bill's proposals answered all the questions, so that it would be then I remind you of the following. If there was a debate in Parliament on the Law on the List of Voters on our proposal, you did not let it into another reading because the government said it would soon prepare its proposal, there is no new Law on the List of Voters. A residence law that matters because of the Law on the List of Voters. We completed the debate on the Law of Residence, concluded the debate, and never voted on it. Do you remember that? Ended the debate, either prepared the vote, at the request of someone delayed the vote and never again came to the vote of the bill, and without that law or its amendment, the new Law on the list of voters cannot offer a quality solution. Third, the Law on Units of Local (regional) Self-Government, its changes failed prior to the launch of the previous local elections. It failed to pass the law even though the government proposed it. And finally, the Law on the financing of local (regional) self-government. So only when we renew all these laws in the package, when we bring all of these together at least a year before the election, will we be able to say that we have created the preconditions for the next local and regional elections to be fully regulated by the new legislation and then we could discuss one law and see the whole of the electoral rights, polling stations, how to choose and how to determine the results of the vote. These two laws and the government's proposal and ours are in the first reading. I invite you to at least this, both bill proposals, then let us go to another reading, so maybe the government will take on most of our proposal in its second reading proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42816	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Forgive the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42817	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, one absolutely wrong allegation is that these elections will not cost anything more directly, that it is actually a single ticket with the same commission which, and already here in the proposal for the implementation of this law, the funds are provided in the budgets of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, means something will cost. Now, where's it gonna cost? It will normally cost more in the re-elections, you can expect a number of re-elections, and that's what's certainly going to cost you, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42818	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. [[I mean, except in Međimurje. I forgot to say.]] On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42819	Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42820	It's so complicated for me, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42821	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's very interesting, we actually have two bill proposals. One who speaks and regulates the issue of selecting representative bodies, so let's call it the legislative authorities at the level of local self-government, or regional self-government. And the other one only talks about the mayor's election, the mayor and the mayor. And let me put a few things on behalf of the SDP Club. First, it is a very interesting solution offered in one of the draft laws on the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors, while at the same time arguing that it would reduce the party's party's party influence on the election of mayors, mayors and mayors. At the same time, there is a proportional system for selecting councilmen. If a higher degree of personality is to be introduced for the mayor, the mayor and the mayor's election, then it should also be ensured with the councilor. And in this context, it is certainly time for the debate to discuss whether and how much to introduce in the election of councilors, whether the majority or proportional system, or perhaps to mix the system. If a proportional system then whether inside it try to search for models through the so-called, unblocked lists or open lists. That among other things, voters can put their candidate on the list. In fact, the influence of citizens, voters on whom they will receive from the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government or to ensure the so-called personality. The second thing to point out is the question, certainly, already mentioned by counterpart Lugaric, in particular, the position and choice of young people in youth councils in local and regional self-government units. And in that part, we should certainly discuss it in particular. And, of course, a particular issue of minority position in view of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. Now, what is a key issue, the proposing representatives also said, these two laws because both of them do not ultimately resolve the actual relationship between the representative body of the local self-government unit and the executive body of the local self-government unit, if the direct choice of mayor, the mayor, or mayor, is accepted, and will only later be discussed. In this context, however, it should be pointed out, therefore, in itself that the essential part of these proposals is just the choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, and in this respect we should meet ourselves, and our public that there are more models actually in which the elected mayoral, mayoral and mayoral authority can appear so directly. There is a model in the form of a so-called strong mayor who usually represents a directly elected mayor who controls even the council because, for example, the electoral system allows him to provide himself and most of the local council with his choice. He then appoints his deputies and has all the executive powers and is therefore the best example of the Italian model that is now in place. But it should be said that our colleagues from the HNS accept in part the status of a strong mayor for the selection of professional services, for the selection of deputies, etc., but not for the powers of the legislative initiative, and in this respect it should actually be seen. That part is already intruding slightly in this second part of the other model, a leader where one person is the political leader of local self-government, but it does not have to control the council. And it does not have all the executive powers but shares them with individual council committees or designated party persons in the form of an individual deputy appointed by the position, opposition to the proportional system that they have achieved within the council. Of course, the third model is, for example, a submodel of this second model which is in the Swedish system where there is no practically mayor but is actually the mayor of the Executive Board who is a professional official, but the duties of the executive authority are divided into committees, i.e. the working bodies of the executive body that carry out these activities and those in accordance with the law, according to the force of the law must do certain things and, of course, be responsible for that. And that's why there's no classic mayoral system in the Swedish model. The third model is what we have today in the collective executive body. And there is practically an executive board or our headship responsible for all executive duties to everyone in the local self-government. And there's another model that's usually rarely used, but it's very efficient. However, a question arises to what extent it corresponds with the representative body. It's the so-called fourth model. He refers to the fact that when a council manager is elected where the council appoints a manager who can be replaced. That manager is responsible only to the council, no, and to the electoral body. Manager, the council determines the manager's authority. The board manager accounts for his work and his decisions. The manager shall appoint the administrative staff for which he is entitled and shall exclude the division of the authority between the legislative and executive body, etc. You see, these are possible models. Now, if we view from that point of view as offered solutions, then we should say that none of the solutions offered, nor our colleagues from the HNS, although he is better than the government's solution, has eventually accepted one pure model. The closest solution that a colleague from the HNS is to the first model, to the strong mayor's model, but not to the end. What we would like to point out from the SDP Club and since this is about first reading, in the principle of debate, in particular, that we want to discuss, these are advantages and disadvantages of a direct choice. Of course, direct choice is one of the essential forms and advantages of democracy as a political order, a democratic order. The direct election reduces the rule of parties and motivates the involvement of citizens in the choice of active and passive voting rights. Direct elections lead to a higher level of personalisation of the individual personality of the selected candidate, i.e. the first candidate in the candidate stage. Then, of course, election campaigns and the very choice of visibility and what is particularly important, personality, responsibility for carrying out the action and making decisions. Partitocraticism is also brought to the margin in such a situation, of course, that parties are reducing the ability to act on their own candidacy and on the very choice in direct elections. The direct elections also take precedence over the reasons of the council's direct responsibility, and mainly with the councilor and the mayor, and mainly with the executive authority of the voters. The immediate selection of the councilor or mayor, or the mayor, will not lead to any form of delegate relationship, whether I want it or not, between the councilor and the electoral body, if the right to impeach the councilor or mayor is incorporated, and in general it is built on regardless of who can give the initiative, because in fact in the final line then the voters do, and in this respect it appears that the one who chose and raised the question and determines the responsibility of the one he chose for the decisions he made. Of course, in such a situation, direct choices allow for greater participation of citizens in local politics. It should lead to a higher level of responsibility and efficiency, a reduction of the party's monopoly in the selection of persons who will conduct the most responsible duties in local self-government, introduce a direct, direct election, would strengthen the negotiating power of local authorities in relation to the central government and... related to regional government, and in this context one more issue should be discussed and this is the issue of introducing a suspension veto, whether to introduce it, where and where to introduce it between the executive and representative authorities when it comes to decision-making because it should be clear here. The line of demarcation is about governance, decision-making and responsibilities for the implementation of certain decisions between the representative and the executive authorities. Of course, there is a whole series of shortcomings in such a situation, if the issue is consistently implemented then it should be reminded that there is a danger of the direct election of mayors for local democracy, they can disable representatives of citizens, in a representative body through so-called. The automatic will of an individual elected Executive Authority representative, turning him into a local power, the possibility of greater use of bribery and corruption, because the Executive Authority will not only appoint deputy mayors as a strong mayor and they will be responsible for both the executive and professional service, but it is he who initiates, initiates and proposes decisions and implements the same decisions that the Council makes, etc., and it remains practically only responsible to the Council for the implementation of the budget and the management and decision-making of the property, all of which remains a very large possibility to lead to such matters. As a result of the focus on individual decisions, it weakens collective decision-making, thus also the motivation of representatives in the representative body, so the councilors to be there and to regularly come to meetings and to prepare themselves better at the sessions themselves, thus failing practically the role of representatives in the exercise of the right to local self-government. There is then a question of the visibility of the motive of the cause and of the decision to make a decision on the part of the councilor or representative of the executive body, etc. NOT to say that, among other things, individual experts are seriously warning about the system of authorities that are emerging from them, potentially incomparably indemnity and autocratic from the existing government model, as Mrs. Kasapovic would say when she analyzes this issue for a simple reason, which says they would actually turn into local powermakers or sheriffs who can happen and can achieve it. In particular, this is such a danger exists in areas where there are fewer, if I may say so of expertise and even where it would lead to marginalising the political and party influence of parties in relation to the performance of individual functions of the executive authority and of certain activities that should be involved in the enforcement of decisions of units of local self-government. In this respect, it is even more dangerous if individual solutions related to the proposed solutions are taken, in the proposed laws, offered for reasons as they further accumulate power in the hands of the Executive Authority representatives. For example, it is proposed in Article 7 that mayors, mayors, municipal commissioners can also be practical representatives. This is very dangerous, for they are not if they would now be directly selected only by the executive decision-makers of the representative body. But they are the operational holders of authorities in units of local and regional self-government, budget management, asset management and those assets that the units of local self-government, which the state by decentralisation put down to units of local self-government, and in particular when entrusted with matters of execution and financing from the state administration budget, they appear here as holders, they would certainly enter into conflicts of interest in accordance with the Law on conflict of interest relating to officials and the issue certainly needs to be discussed, I personally think that none of them could be represented, he has the right to run, but he has the right to choose whether there will be one or the other if the elections are passed. Of course, it should be said that we also have other questions that could be asked as in Article 22, where it is said that, for example, the cost of election promotion should not be received gifts in money, other funds, and services from, and now among other things, the list of associations of workers and employers. Now I don't understand how you can put an employer here, it actually means a representative of a particular company and at the same time companies and limited companies can give gifts and this. We're obviously playing with words here, and that part should be further elaborated. If I didn't take up too much of your time, since I'm running out of time for the club, I'd just like to say in the final part. In principle, we from the Club of Representatives of the SDP have no objection to the opening of the debate and to offer a proposal for a solution that will lead to the direct election of mayors, mayors, and mayors, and the head of municipal or city councils and our counties. In principle, we support such solutions but at the same time we are asking for a very momentous resolution of relations between the representative body and the executive body or the mayor as directly elected bodies, and in such a situation, it is certain that a new Law on the system of local and regional self-government should be prepared by the second reading which would resolve these issues before the direct election of these leaders is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42822	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Tomcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42823	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, I would like to highlight the HSS Club according to its programme definitions is for the direct selection of top executive functions, so mayors, mayors and mayors. But before I explain in detail our position on both of these laws allow for a number of principled findings regarding the government's proposal. The law, in our opinion, is technically correct in this election section, there are some remarks that I will later discuss some of the articles we believe should be amended to make this Law even more correct. However, the law is not applicable, because it definitely did not determine the relationship between the new directly elected executive authorities, which is what the representative body is already talking about here today. It doesn't matter to us whether it's set out in this law, probably not because this is the Law on Elections, probably in some new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, but of course this Law doesn't mean anything by itself and it's inapplicable. Since the election cycle passed in May of this year, however, it should be rushed by the adoption of this Law, I would suggest to the Secretary of State, his associates, and to all of us to try to deviate a little from what the Law suggests to be applied to the next election cycle. I think it would be stimulating for all of us and for local self-government to try to build a system that we're going to test in two counties if there's going to be an extraordinary election, 10 municipalities and 3 cities. This is actually a major reform of local and regional administration. This reform given the need for a new definition of the relations between the executive and representative authorities, I think we should start testing in time, I think there is a model and it is possible for those who go to the extraordinary elections to build a system to test it. And yet another introductory note, this Law should not be modelled since it is about direct elections to remain lonely. For us in the HSS, it is also a matter of direct elections for the Croatian Parliament in terms of the majority electoral system at least in one part, and I think that when we discuss it, although it is a proposal by the Croatian PGS and touched in its second part of the election of the representative body and predicted, I think we will have to discuss one day that the representative bodies of the local self-government and regional self-government units can also be chosen by a majority double-circular model, especially in the counties that have 40 to 50 council members. I think it's now a question and certain relations within the county, dominated by a certain part or county centre compared to the rest of the county. To avoid it, I think we could talk about it, but it's not the subject of this law. But I'm warning on behalf of the club that it's actually obvious that the state administration recognized this voice to the public or feared it, where direct elections are sought. In fact, it's one clear signal for all these indisputables that are happening to us, which I won't repeat today enough of what's been said. The key issue, therefore, is through the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors, in fact to strengthen the political legitimacy of the executive head of local and regional self-government. The direct choice gives these persons or functions an original political mandate and strengthens their position. To avoid what was behind this pay phone to make these people some kind of local sheriffs, etc. I think it is at the same time sought and can be achieved and strengthened by the representative body and through that function the possibility of recalling the executive authorities. Of course, through this future law we will probably redefine both the different design and selection of the headship, the provision of professional and professional staff, the redefine of this authority that we are all talking about today. I dare say. This law initiates and begins a major reform of the local administration but I see it as part of the reform of the overall administration. I hope the promoter also had in mind writing this law the need for modernisation, rationalisation, strengthening the capacity of local and regional administrations, professionalisation, deberocracy, raising the quality of public services, etc. And perhaps this is a moment to point out that Croatia does not need any cosmetic reform of the administration of any part, both local and regional. Croatia needs a simple improvement of the administration at all levels by adopting high standards, ultimately and experiences of those who are successful in that part, and this practical knowledge of the denial and of what we have never come to, the denial of the model so-called. a traditional management model. The traditional model of administration primarily insists on efficient, professional, impartial and ethical administration and practically nothing more. The whole of Europe actually has or has passed that part of the traditional model but they have moved on to another model mostly. We will obviously have to if we opt for this direct choice and to redefine the relations of executive and legislative authorities, representative authorities we will obviously have to skip this traditional model and immediately move to that higher phase where something new is actually sought. And the administration is beginning to demand more and more market principles, more and more business orientations of the administration, more and more concrete material results for the benefit of citizens, so orientation to entrepreneurship, to the market. Someone would call it theoretics of public management, someone would call it one way or another, it's completely irrelevant, but even today in Croatia, the need for local administration and regional administration to become increasingly involved in their business in market and entrepreneurial orientation. If the promoter had such a model as I'm saying, then he's really seriously unspoken, not only as an election model, but as a model that will define how such a administration in some new relationship of these two authorities will function. There are also a few practical reasons for that. To assume that this model will cause in a very large number of cases and certain post-election cohabitations that apparently some are afraid of. I don't see any reason to be afraid of post-election cohabitations. However, we must clearly say that cohabitation plus the market and entrepreneurial orientation of the administration can create huge instability in the functioning of local and regional authorities, huge instability if the framework is not fully defined. And that's why I understand why you suggested that this election law be applied since the next election cycle, but I appeal again. Let's try to get it back at least two years, try to apply it at least to some extraordinary elections in the counties, municipalities and cities, so that this really new complicated system that depends greatly on how local and regional self-government works, this new relationship between each other's powers, and that all together doesn't cause the effects that have been discussed here by the sheriff's and willful behaviour, let's try to test it. It's just a suggestion from the HSS Club. We believe that there is enough time, we hold that we can define all new relationships within a year and apply them to several extraordinary choices. Let me not just stay at the level of theory a few concrete remarks on some of the articles of the law of which is proposed by the Government. Article 7, Mr. Lesar spoke of it. Behold, there is only one missing from 34 incompatible duties. There are no MPs. I don't think there's a word here that I can't be mayor, mayor and mayor. Here's the word that MPs are allowed not to allow others. That's what this is about. I beg you if we adopt this system then let's not play with the fact that 20 mayors, 40 mayors and 60 mayors will sit in the House theoretically. Don't mind, but I think we'd actually make a new big circus out of something that's on the verge of finally entering a serious reform of the entire administration, I'm not talking about self-government. So there must simply be MPs here. Our second remark is that Article 11 requires the number of signatures to go to the elections. I think this is actually about a high degree of inequality and candidates but also citizens as planned. Consider a very simple model, a certain percentage, 1%, 1.5%, 2%, for everyone who wants to be mayor of the City of Zagreb if it is 1%, so let's get a nice number of votes. And whoever wants to be head of the 800-inhabitant community is one percent his eight signatures and he'll be able to go to the polls. I don't see why this inequality of both citizens and candidates would exist. Furthermore, in Article 20, I don't think it's a good rule for one to drink and the other to pay. It's a matter of costing. The government determines and local self-government units pay. I think it would be more correct for the government to set the lower and upper limit of costs by its decision, and that units of local self-government, according to their capabilities, adapt between those two, between those two parts. I think the government is having a hard time, and we have so far, in practice enough examples so far that in fact these costs of some local self-government unit just can't be thrown out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day It's that interim report by the candidate on financial resources, I think it's completely unnecessary. Totally unnecessary. Why are we going to bother with the interim reports? After the elections, everyone will have to prove where they came from, where did they come from? This Regulation shall enter I can't get in for 26th and 27th, I can't get in. Excuse me, first of all, 26. The right to participate in the second round. If the candidate gives up, then he has the right to the deputy. And if the candidate dies, then he has no right to a deputy, then the elections are repeated. I don't know what you had in mind when you wrote it. Maybe you had in mind that someone might have been deliberately liquidated and then... No, no, no. [[/Intruder: You're challenging?]] I'm just being hypothetical. But look, I think in both cases we should even the odds. So new candidates can also come in case, when someone gives up and in case someone dies. Or he can't in either case. And let me just have a few more, a few more sentences. So this, in principle, this Law is acceptable to us, but of course we expect an answer whether you plan to possibly start using it somewhere in the middle of that election cycle if we can define the other things. To tell us very clearly how and in what way and in which law this new relationship will be defined and to determine some kind of concept and depending on the answers to these concrete remarks will be acceptable to us. As far as the HNS and PGS proposals are concerned, he also has a lot of good solutions. Even some solutions are more qualitative than this government law, but we cannot accept it for principled reasons. We are opposed to two substances, two substances regulated in the same law. And the choice of executive authority and source, the choice of representative authority. We believe it's impenetrable, impractical, and our suggestion to try it, to try to separate it. This Law is unacceptable to us for another reason why it prejudged a purely proportionate electoral system for representative power. We are considering introducing a majority system for selecting county congregations, city councils and municipal councils. I think both laws deserve some attention. I think HNS-PGS can, I can separate. And I think that with certain modifications and a timely statement when and in what law this new relationship will be defined that we can have a good basis with which we can say that we have finally entered a serious reform of the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42824	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42825	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. First of all, the existing Electoral Law means this Electoral Law, which was now elected in the 5th month, is bad compared to the Electoral Law, which is elected by MPs in the Croatian Parliament, with the observation that it is unfair in that Law, which is a part of the parties being denied from that minority vote. The principle of positive discrimination should also be introduced at national level because the absence of the same penalty is imposed on those parties with an appropriate attitude towards minorities. But now back to this Electoral Law for Local Self-Government. Unlike the legislator code written by the Law Centre or the group headed by Professor Kasapovic, the profession, this one for the selection of representative bodies at the local level, was the pure politics of the then coalition government. So instead of the coalition managing the interests of local communities, the interests of citizens were managed by a narrow particular interest at the time of 5 parties. I'm not going to name them now. But that's the way it is. I'm going to quote a part of my 2001 speech when I opposed local election changes in front of the IDS Club because it was clear to me at that time that there was an election engineering work that would result in a total electoral, moral breakdown. And then I was saying that clearly this is a new law that determines a new way of choosing. Only the flow of time will show whether this model will live in the legal, in the right sense of that word, but unfortunately here the emphasis is put on parties, let's, less on citizens, and we are largely reserved not to say restrained from this way of selecting members in representative bodies of units of local, regional, regional self-government and so on. And before that, I said, what's the IDS attitude about? Here, among other things, Mr Ivanisevic speaks, publicly represented such an attitude in one television show, but unfortunately, such an approach did not win over at the six-point where the "note" IDS was outvoted. We have had this approach today to read in the newspapers, advocates the Croatian legal centre. They advocated that mixed means system. So Mrs. Kasapovic, who has been engaged in almost every electoral law so far, has been for the municipality and the county, that is, for the state of Croatia and so on. It's clear that even though we were part of another coalition back then, we were as I said reserved, we were outvoted, abstentioned. Although I am willing to say that there is no electoral code to choose from or to be chosen at a local level that will not fit the IDS. Here in these models you are proposing a direct selection of mayors, mayors, captains. Okay. IDS is 100% for. Why? Because, among other things, that model suits us. Others will say that's what citizens are looking for. And that's okay. And we're in. And we'll vote for it. The only question is, is Croatia ready for such an electoral system at the moment? That's exactly what I want to warn you about. I repeat, if it means such a choice of someone's interest then it's an IDS interest because, for example, if it was directly elected by the mayor, it wouldn't have happened in one Labin that civilization step into the moral ambience, Kramaric would have said the shock, where SDP, HSU, HDZ, LS and so on removed Tully Demetlika from the IDS that received over 45% of the votes, votes. If the elections were direct, Mr. Hrvatin of the SDP would not have won the SDP election, he would have received Demetlik from the IDS. And that's clear to everyone. But against such coalitions that have one mandate more, even if you win 45% of the votes, you are simply powerless. And that's then the best example of why IDS corresponds to direct choices. Same thing in Vishnjan. The former chief wins over 45% of the votes, yet a similar coalition has denied us the authorities there as well as in Labin. Clearly today, a few months after the election, people are bitter, they are embroiled by this political immorality but there is no more going back. They, you know what they call it, call political prostitution not to use certain folk expressions, because, come on, it's not a higher decentness appropriate in this way to perform after this speaker but it's certainly a major political immorality. In one word, ideology has lost the right of citizenship in our country, everything has become an interest. Many mentioned the example of this HSP councilman, Brlek, if I'm not mistaken, which some say first took from one and now he's asking from the other. In particular, this comes to terms with these independent lists. It was expected that this would happen when the independent lists were in these elections, but probably not at the next one and I could elaborate that thesis for a long time. However, I dare say that the best electoral law is the one the Republic of Croatia had in 1993 when 50% of the council members were elected from the list and 50% directly in their election units. Now we're proposing no choice here, for example. in a county that has 50 councilors or 40, 25 or 20 candidates directly from 40 or 50, but only one or only in a city not 12 out of 25 or 13 out of 25, but only one, and that is the normal chief, mayor, mayor, as we will call them. Now, what's better? Whether it's better to pick 12 or 25 councilmen or just one councilman directly. Now, let us also release these examples of one Italy, one Germany, one Austria etc., they choose a direct part, the chiefs etc., but it is also interesting to choose directly at least 50% or somewhere and 75% of parliamentarians, but from that MPs in the Republic of Croatia flee as the devil from the incense. I was glad to hear from Mr. Tomcic earlier that he's in favour of a model like that. However, what would certainly not be good to introduce a two-round system for MPs or councilors at local level, means it must be chosen in one round, but it would be perfectly normal, logical, desirable, only possible for the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, to be clearly elected in two circles. Sometimes a man could ask himself how many MPs would enter this House if they were to appear directly with their name and their last name to the citizens. In 1999, we were constantly in this country insinuating that a semi-presidential system would be replaced by a semi-parliamentary one. Unfortunately, this has not yet happened even though we, we should admit it in 2000, made a step towards that direction. However, today at the local level with the model offered we want to introduce a pure presidential one, I would dare say a papal, Caesarist form of local government. It's all right, it's just not gonna be okay, I assure you, the relationship between the mayor and the town council or the county council. Clearly, this law does not deal with or do not deal with these, but I think that the way it proposes it on one hand and the HNS in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, i.e. the Government is at least understated, not to say bad. I am against, clearly, such experiments that, in three or four years' time, when new elections occur, the formation of new authorities will end up with an even greater debacle than this post-election prostitution that is now in action, where everything is allowed, where all the fences have fallen, where morality is nothing, and interest becomes clear everything. Even, we even listened a few months ago or a few weeks ago to propose a ban on early, these pre-election coalitions, only I warn you that all immorality began by post-election behavior, because in the past, these electoral coalitions are all clear, all clear. The problem of voter fraud arises by post-election mixing, so we even had a case, I don't know that some of the lists have been concluded in isolated situations in Belarus, so that we can choose power in Sisak-Moslavina County or that I don't say what's happening today in one Dubrovnik or in Velika Gorica, and probably tomorrow, gentlemen in the city of Split will go along with it. So, IDS accepts direct selection, chief, mayor, mayor. But why would gentlemen run from a combined model? 50% of the lite, 50% of the direct and most important, but that should be resolved by that Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government, which is the relationship between the Commissioner and the Council. To end, when we talk about this local self-government, the essence is certainly not the choice, the essence is the money, the essence of the local self-government lies in the powers that these bodies from municipalities across cities to counties have, the essence of local self-government lies in decentralisation, because you can have the best people, but without money these people are simply helpless and just as much is the essential moment in which this country should be discussed at this point, and not that for every little thing our mayors, mayors, or mayors, or mayors, have to turn around, not to say kneeling to the government, and then the government is running politics so that they give to their own people, and others who are not on the trail of its political thinking or support within this Parliament can simply get nothing. I said yesterday, I'll say it again and now, Istra doesn't ask the government for anything, she doesn't need anything, but just gentlemen put her part of hers. Clearly, all that is good for Istria is good for Croatia and vice versa, all that is good for Croatia is also good for Istria. So, let's decentralisation Croatia, start talking about it, and these election models are good to send each other to another reading. There is a time until they should be adopted as such. In any case, enough time before the next parliamentary, local elections, but we already know that by these elections, we have been divided for almost four more years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42826	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42827	I am correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect allegations of political immorality in the post-election coalitions in Istria and I would like to drink what is greater, 45% or 55% of the total votes adopted in the conclusion of post-election coalitions. I agree that the right and advantage for the government's composition has a break that wins a relative majority, but if it fails and the other one is legal. I also remind my colleague Caine that in Medulin Municipality, IDS and SDP, each of the two council members, drew up power in front of independent lists that had been given 10 council seats together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42828	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42829	Mr. Vice President, I am also correcting the incorrect allegations of distinguished counterpart Cain regarding political immorality regarding the trade and purchase of councilors after the constitution. Namely, it is not, as Mr. Cain said, the problem of these electoral laws, but it is a problem of not functioning the rule of law. If the rule of law were to be acted by someone for giving and for receiving bribes, it would be condemned and that practice would be interrupted in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42830	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42831	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen representatives of the central state office. Here I will, on behalf of the HDZ Club, comment on this proposal for a bill on the election of mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb, mayors and municipal mayors, the Government's proposal for a bill on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zadar, the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian PGS. Here's to the Government's proposal I, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, am pleased to conclude that this proposal is finally before us on the direct selection of mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb, mayors and municipal commissioners supported by this club, and I dare say that here I would congratulate this government on its political determination and will to fulfill its election promise and I would absolutely not accept this one remark from the distinguished representative Tomčić who said that this government was afraid of someone or that something was out of fear for it. The government consistently implements what it has said it will implement and what it has promised in its four-year term. There is no doubt that the move towards a direct choice for executive heads in local self-government units is a general trend in the democratisation of local self-government in all countries or most of Europe's countries. I would also like to point out here that the National Union of Cities and Municipalities, and many of the MPs here know this, has long initiated a direct selection of executive heads in local self-government and has already sent a whole law somewhere in the late 1990s that regulates both the delirquent and the financing and direct selection, which neither the government nor those former HDZs nor the coalition government has supported nor referred to the parliamentary procedure. Here is what we can say and support this law for reasons because, in practice and experience in the past ten years, local self-government in Europe can clearly single out undeniable arguments in favour of the direct election of the executive head in local self-government. First, it is the political, moral and democratic legitimacy of the directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor. Secondly, citizens are given the opportunity to commit themselves to persons other than the parties and thus enable the directly elected leaders to act more strongly independently of the party pressures of council members. One of the further reasons for direct choice is certainly the personalisation of the election, and this is particularly important in smaller environments where people know each other personally and know exactly who they vote for. It is also expected that this model of elections will encourage voters to go to the polls and contrary to some discussions here shortly before, I believe that in the event of a direct election, a far greater number of voters will come to the polls because they will know exactly who they choose and who they vote for, and will not happen to them that, after election combinations led by their local units, a representative of some political option that does not have or almost has barely 5% of the electoral bodies. Furthermore, such an election would increase the responsibility of leaders, mayors, mayors and mayors for reasons that it cannot be hidden behind non-transparent political options, but it is precisely clear who and how it is making moves. Furthermore, more stability, because the mandate of such a elected mayor, mayor and chief would not depend on one council vote, often on some political defects we have heard about daily these last days. In 10 years of European experience in local self-government and European experience of the direct choice of leaders and some possible shortcomings such as possible political blockade of two directly elected bodies, excessive concentration of power, the risk of mere population among individuals, the weakening of political parties, etc. But in our opinion, these negatives are irrelevant to all positive effects and should be clearly sought to reduce good legal frameworks. But the important elements of this law are, that is, the key and what is important in the proposal for this law, the most important, direct choice and the majority model of choice. It is definitely important that the head of executive power, mayor, mayor and mayor be the person behind them who will have the right majority of voters out to the polls and that is what will attract voters to go to the polls. It is clear that in this electoral model, the issue of all issues, the responsibility of the directly elected mayor, the mayor and the mayor as well as the possibility, i.e. the inability of the mutual political blockade of the two directly elected bodies of the representative and executive and the possibility, or the inability to co-habitate them. Therefore, this law, proposed today in the first reading, does not treat this matter, but certainly this matter should be elaborated precisely in the Law on Local and Regional Self - Government. It is clear that this law should then be developed and a model of whether a strong or weak mayor, whether a mayor with a headship or without a headship on what can be discussed. In my opinion, the question of recalling, the question of disbanding the representative body should also be clearly and precisely defined by the Law on Local Self-Government, and certainly the launch of the impeachment should only be in the taxo-listed cases and at least the supra-ial majority of the representative body. I've already said the same thing, you should think about the possible disbanding of the representative body in case of a blockade. A good solution to this proposed text of the law is that the deputy mayor, deputy mayor, mayor, is elected at the same time as the head, but in this case it should be better to develop provisions on the possible transfer of powers and the possible completion of the term of office in the event of the mayor’s termination of the term of office to new regular or extraordinary elections. Also in the section on the majority electoral method, which speaks of the right of candidates to give up, it would be appropriate to specify the deadline and procedure for quitting, as well as the term of the re-election after the second round in case of even results, to make it clear whether what this text is doing is not quite clear, whether it is a re-application or whether it is a repeat of the whole election. As a good part of the provisions of this law in Part II refer to the procedure and technique of the conduct of the elections, which are mostly in line with the provisions of the Law on the selection of representative bodies in units of local self-government, they do not need to be specifically commented towards the need to regulate some inaccuracies in both laws, and this is likely to be discussed, and this will be crystallised through an individual debate. It's final. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law and its reference to first reading. We stand by the adoption of this law to raise democratic standards in local self-government. That by applying it, learning the culture of democracy will become more and more positive experiences and reduce possible negatives. I would say that those who fear local sheriffs, that if local sheriffs don't have a culture of democracy with us and if they don't raise themselves if I say voters themselves to use the opportunities of democracy, nothing will stop local sheriffs, because in this electoral system, the local sheriffs, where voters allow them to do so. As it comes to first reading, we expect that this debate will crystallise a number of good suggestions and proposals based on which the government will propose a complete and quality definition of the Final Bill, and I think that the timing for release in the procedure in the first reading of this Law is excellent because we have enough time to pass one quality, both the Electoral Law and the Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government, in which we will well regulate relations between the two directly elected bodies. Finally, in relation to the proposal for a law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government and the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, the proposed Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS Club does not support this Bill proposal and its adoption for the reason that it partially regulated the matter which has already been encrypted by the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which is in force. Its amendments and additions, which are in the final proposal before this House, and partially regulates the matter of the proposal for a law on direct choice proposed by the Government. The HDZ Representatives' Club does not support the adoption of this Act, but we believe that this text will certainly contribute to the parliamentary debate on the model of choice and issues of forming local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42832	Thank you very much, colleague Lovrin. It is on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, a respected colleague Vuljanic. Here you go, colleague Nikola.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad that now, finally, these two legislative proposals that speak of the same problem of government and our findings will be in the parallel debate. In the last item of the agenda, we had a parallel discussion about two completely different things. One law concerning the current situation, one law concerning the situation after 1.1.2009. With certain corrections, there is no reason for both of these proposals to go further. They don't push themselves. That's not the case here. Here are the two competitive concepts that we're trying to introduce each other in the best light, and in this House it's up to him to decide what he thinks is smarter. The model by which a separate, separate law is voted to elect a leader, and separately to elect a representative body does not seem good to us, that is the model proposed by the Government, for two reasons. One is, it's one choice. They are always spent at the same time almost without exception except in some situations. On the other hand, by direct elections, the Law on direct elections only highlights once again that this Parliament, the political elite of the Republic of Croatia and those who decide on Croatia's political future, are important to themselves. And that they care about their direct subordinates at the local level. Citizens and voters are just numbers. When it comes to models of a strong, weak mayor, mayor of manager, what counterpart Arlovic was saying from this pay phone, we opted for a model of a strong mayor. Of course, not entirely and completely as it seems in some European countries, such as Italy, but as we thought appropriate for our situation. So, according to this proposal, the mayor, and it must be talked about the previous law, because in the previous law, we have actually explained the relationship between the representative body and the directly elected head. That's why we put them in a package to discuss. The fact that this first one was late for the government's proposal is the consequences of creating and setting up the agenda, nothing else. So inside, in the first bill of law, the past law of interrelationship between the representative body and the directly elected leader, we have clearly defined, with precise sub-points, precisely certain powers of what who does, who controls whom, in which place and how. According to our proposal, the mayor has practically all the powers to implement political and economic, economic, communal and similar decisions in his unit of local self-government, except for certain points that are in the authority of councils such as the budgetary vote, for example. Well, whatever. We suggest a double circle of choice. Of course, it doesn't have to be that way. It's about the first reading of the Law, there are models in the world, here is the French model where in the first round the leader is already elected, if he got 25% of the votes + 1 it can be 30+1, it can be however we estimate that in our situation it's appropriate. If we consider the two-round model to be expensive, complicated, or for some other reason unacceptable. I think it's one of the key things where we're different from the government's proposal and the incompatibility of duty. It all fits. All the duties we consider incompatible with the responsibilities of local self-government leadership are consistent with what the government thinks, except for the duties of a parliamentary representative. And we're convinced that's exactly what shouldn't happen. Especially in a situation where the head of local self-government is elected directly, so it gets legitimacy, not only of citizens' legitimacy but also of broad authority. He's getting available information, however the Law on Local Self-Government will be arranged, much more freely available by means than this is now the case. In this situation, we think it is quite inappropriate for this same person to sit in Parliament where it actually decides on the general availability and distribution of funds at the state level. Such overlapping is also politically harmful. Because they create an image in public about untouchable people who, as they say in the past system, move horizontally from function to function, capture functions, and once entered the system, there is no longer him out until he dies or eventually retires at a deep age. About the deputy and the assistant. The government is proposing a deputy. The deputy is a person who, so to speak, replaces the leader and the leader of the generals, so, in a global sense, conveys some of his powers. Powers for a specific area, for a specific group of areas or whatever. After that transfer the deputy freely in his field does what he thinks is wise to do. Of course the deputy has to make direct choices with the mayor, if that concept is accepted. We propose a stronger mayor, a mayor who brings his office, his administration, his team to local self-government and sets up his assistants. Assistants can get some powers, but these powers are one-off. Powers are one-off, and responsibility and authority are on the leader who is the only one directly elected and the only one has the legitimacy of most citizens in his local self-government unit. That I do not return to the beginning and that the Law on Local Self-Government of the current nor these changes that were today on the discussion proposed by the Government are not internal relations in the management of the local self-government unit, in any case if these two laws are placed on the pile you see that the newly elected mayor, the mayor, functions with the headship which is actually in a political way, which is, of course, non-sensé, which cannot survive, this is a situation that will have to change in the previous law no matter how. The only thing in this situation is possible for the mayor's office to be declared headship, to be called headship and to be appointed by the mayor's office, in which case whatever we call it. In our proposal of the law, we also make it clear, in fact, how to implement the recall of the head of local self-government, it is clear by definition, and by the logic of things in no way can it implement in the representative body which with it, as we have imagined, has little to do with it except that they were in the elections the same day. The representative body has its legitimacy, the directly elected leader has its legitimacy and can only be taken away from him by the one who gave it to him. Voters in the election. Of course, the process itself, the initiative can be launched in the representative body and perhaps it can be run elsewhere, if another smarter solution is found where the question of trust could still be raised, directly to the elected leader, it is possible but his trust can only be taken away from him by the one who gave it to him. Most voters in the constituency who chose him. We've been listening here to a couple of pledoies against the direct election of local self-government leaders, with a resolution we're not ready for it yet, we're going to have sheriffs, some psychics, some who'll be locked up in their own county, in their own reg, put guards around, they won't let anyone in, and no one will be able to replace them. If we have little faith in voters, in the Republic of Croatia that we think it can happen that voters on the ground between people who know choose such a sheriff so I don't know what we're doing here, then we don't trust ourselves. We also heard a list of problems, a list of problems that will occur in this version of the law, of course there are problems, of course unresolved issues exist, so we haven't tried this yet. This is an experiment, and nothing else can ever be in the first place. We can simulate the situation, we can predict that the results will be like, like this, but in the end, when we spend our entire environment from Serbia in the east to Slovenia in the west, it implements it. When we do, we'll see how it works. The sheriffs didn't come to power anywhere, and they didn't take their district anywhere and shoot at it, not in any of those countries, so they won't be in Croatia. All in all, I think we should put this discussion on the ground about leaders, elites and mistrust of citizens and voters. So I'm saying that they're the number, so when that number comes out at 30%, then we all get surprised and disgusted. In fact, you shouldn't be surprised or disgusted. You should be worried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42834	Thank you, colleague Vuljanic. In the name of the Club of Representatives of LS HSLS DC, dear colleague Zlatko Kramarić, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, honored representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This way, we could not only start with the clagworth that my colleague gave me that it really is in the fact that in these last local elections 30% of the citizens, whether it is the fact that we should be happy and show that politics is no longer our destiny and is not the most important thing or the matter elsewhere, and that we ourselves as people who in some way create the law and create an ambience are concerned and to show whether we are just as beautiful, smart, wise as we like to think. This is what I have to admit on the one hand, I have a few very interesting feelings I have to share, I'm glad some who in 2001 didn't think I should directly choose the mayor, the mayor and the mayor today think as I thought. Then, my colleague Pusic and I remained in the minority within the ruling coalition, and it went too far that it was not mature and that the crisis field between the representative government and the executive authority would not be reduced but to remain the same, I was not convinced of the then formulation and argument of my colleague Ivanisevic, normally I had to respect the will of the then parliamentary majority and what happened was that we had the laws in 2005 and 2001 and 2005 according to the same rules of the game. And now what makes me a little less happy is that something had to happen as dramaticly as it did these days since May 15th and then, especially in June, and we see that this atmosphere from June is being transferred to September and that we are now actually responding to what was quite clear that something has been rotting in the state of Denmark, that something is not good because what is happening in Gorica, what is happening in Dubrovnik, what happened to Osijek, Karlovac, is almost there is no city or municipality that could not be persuaded that it's really political trade in the first plan, if it's a little more bad then it's really a matter of political prostitution, that it's the most normal thing that you get into a political bed at night, that you wake up in the second and that nobody is absolutely bothering. So then you see the titles of bribery, corruption, prostitution all that's really talking about, and then we're very surprised that a very small or growing number of citizens are going out in that election. And then we think we'll solve one of these laws with that problem. It's possible, God forbid it's that way. But I would return to what has been repeated all along, what legal solutions should actually be made, it is a balanced even development of the Republic of Croatia. Just to see what we can encourage and what are the comparative advantages of an end and how the Law will recognize it and in some ways be realized. There's this problem that we didn't have a selective approach, which we really have the same criteria, the same... and for the spaces that have been developed, for... that have been developed, and that have been developing especially in these 15 years in one way, and then the same criteria we carry where it's not possible. I think it's a bigger problem, the problem of this fiscal policy, the problem of financial independence, which has now been happening. Try to analyze some of the relationships between the construction and the county if it wasn't the same government. Well, between the city and the state, if it wasn't the same government. You've been punished, sometimes it's more important to the chief, the mayor to be good to the minister than to his party president, and that's something that's inadmissible. No one can be punished for showing such a political will. Let's be honest. And it's not there again that someone wrongly doesn't realize that it's directed against a particular combination that's now in power. Sadly, so it was in our day if we wanted to be politically honest. We haven't been to the end, we've kind of always put that problem under the carpet. That's not good. And, of course, that kind of thing is generated. And then right at the end of 2005 it was this ulcer that really existed and in 1993, now at the end it broke, now the emperor is naked, and now we're surprised that what happens is that in Split I don't know that the one I'm saying went into political... in one combination and then after a month they changed their minds and said that this combination wasn't right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been 100% somewhere. 50% of the council members from one of the same parties are going somewhere. It is something that really causes legitimate frustration among citizens and a certain reaction from these citizens. It's just that then the party of abstinence actually becomes our most important political factor. And nobody's happy. The citizen, who raises his hands from politics, the political actors involved are not satisfied, and then we get angry and then we just have one criterion for the place to place because no one is innocent. To say right now, no one here, there's no party that can say we're in these games innocent. It can't even be the centres or the leaders. No, it's just people, it's about the interests that Max Weber had told Karl Marx a long time ago, "My dear Karlek, the world is not ruled by ideas but by interests.". And that's when situations like this happen, it's shown in the best possible way, really, and then we're faced with what we're dealing with. It's a good thing it's on its way now, to try to say to ease certain things. This is a fact, it's our reality and it's not going to change. It will not change if we leave the same game rules for the next year, or for the next election cycle there in 2009. He could agree with his colleague Tomcic that now this law would not have been applied since then, but could now be a pilot program that could be questioned somewhere to see what relations there will be between representative authorities, mayors or mayors. It's all speculation, but let's not run away from some solutions that even modern democracies know. I may not have been very parliamentaryly thrown out of the bench today, but it seemed to me, in fact, that he missed the topic he was talking about because what he was saying now concerns this point of the agenda, let's say, in one Germany. And there are much less developed democracies, and perhaps even democracies that are not at our level, for example. If one Republika Srpska has a direct choice institute, then Slovenia, then Serbia. Then I don't know that we're here in Croatia, that we're actually afraid of such things. And certainly, a whole series of these details are just going to stay and they are very often familiar with the very private nature of such a philosophy. Well, it's very difficult that no law is going to anyone, not to be afraid of that presidentialism at this local level, possibly quiet as the sheriff says. Well, the sheriffs created these laws too, and this existing electoral law also made it possible. People here said to take the power he needed, that's what they said. So it was said when we won in Osijek in 1993 that we would cut grass and catch stray dogs. And we couldn't even catch stray dogs because it wasn't our ingenuity. But no one was sanctioned for it, it was the most normal political discourse heard from this pay phone as well. So I'm saying, all that's been happening since May of this year is exactly what red light is. We've all been directed at. That's the "Whom the bells ring" thing.". We all have these bells ringing and now it would be good to really try to make such an electoral law that would not solve all the problems, all the dilemmas than to try to make them aware of actually as small a minimum as possible just because the laws then create that life but again without that set of laws that allow a normal life, decent life to the units of local self-government, local self-government at all. In fact, then we throw out nebulas, then we actually deal with one virtual reality, which is real life and direct participation of citizens. Is this the moment the problem? You see, I've made 30 and a few cards of remarks and I'm going to give it to my colleague Palaric or my associates without any claim that it's "Holy Letter" but here it shows it's a serious problem. This is indeed a serious problem and I think that if there is a good political will that these are not party issues, then there will be no question of Đakov or Vinkovci because today Djakovo is one political combination, tomorrow is another. The Vinkovci are one, maybe another again tomorrow, third but simply it's a question of everyday real life in our local environments and where we really want to say to ourselves no matter what it means to be a young democracy. And if we're a young democracy, then the participation of citizens and that interest would have to be greater. Normally, with us, that interest can be turned into a boomerang very often, so then we have a cartoon democracy. This was shown by these presidential elections, which is now the moment when Pandora's box opens up, so it's no longer necessary that I just don't know what the party is proposing, although even now you have a flood of independent lists and exactly people I don't think are all exhibitionists but simply people who want to participate in politics and then come up with these independent lists, and then participate. There are more of them than political parties in all these elections. There I can set some rules of the game that, I'm not going to say, make it harder, but it will do it anyway for a shade of seriousness, and it's very important not to in any way be the thing of some of our competition, but simply that certain strictness, certain discipline, certain criteria that are actually necessary so that we can really make a law that allows what was once said to be the best choice. What is certain is that, by changing this electoral model, both the local and the political systems are changing but not only that, but it no longer has a copy of this national level. The very fact that the introduction of another right to vote has something important new input into our whole story and that this moment will, in fact, appear right now that these people will almost have legitimacy, as the President of the Republic has, for example, because he has been elected directly, has been given legitimacy when I was in 2001 in the middle of a controversy with my colleague Ivanisevic, who has just spoken that this field of crisis, or between the presidential authorities or the mayoral headship, has been reduced precisely because then it depends less on all these frustrations, interests which are, and let's be honest, are often always particular, or which are usually always even more honest or not more ground-based, come down to certain names. And that's how it is, and let's not run away from it, that's facts, but I'm saying some good law, some valid law, some valid experience that we're going to pass through the articles can be pretty much buffered. It's this whole problem that's got politics behind it, these particular interests, etc. I also think that there is no need to fear that the political influence of the parties will completely disappear. It is now, however, shown that, possibly, these independent lists in some smaller environments are better off and still in large cities and larger cities and counties, however, political parties still play a decisive role. And I don't think there's anything to be afraid of. And what seems to me to be very good is that there is a possibility that exactly what is about to happen now, this direct election of local community leaders in order to have an impact on national and political life in the long term, because this would create new generations of political participants who would be tested in the electoral struggle and trained in the executive government. I think that would be good. It's a refreshment though I still think politics isn't swimming or athletics where you can run two, three or five seasons, after which you actually leave because politics is still a long-term job and where that element of professionality and continuity isn't something that's in itself that's good, and it's not bad at all, and I'm saying what's left here in this bill is unclear, so let's also tell our colleagues from the HNS that it's not yet, but I can see that, with them, it's good. They leave that possibility to actually improve, that relationship between the representative authorities and, and the executive authorities. There's room left for us to find these real, real solutions, the right solutions that would exactly, that would create an ambience of just professionalization of the administration. This is really funny when I'm reading something that's basically counter-constitutional to put mandates on dispositions. That all directors of public companies are automatically changed immediately. Let's just say that for 12 years it didn't occur to me that I'm doing it precisely because you want to have people who don't depend on political will, on the structure or, the party flags on the city council or the external parliament, rather than simply having people who will be responsible, who can bear it without, like, that autonomy of the institutions, that democratisation of our institutional life is as important as I know it from these nuances, these nuances that say it's safe to find 1001 reasons why something is wrong, but there's nothing that needs to be prejudged and I hope that if, I'll leave this, and everything in this very important theme will really depend on my voice and me personally, and we think that it's important and that another or even some future reading will solve all of these dilemmas that still exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42836	Thank you, dear colleague Kramarić. On behalf of my colleague, Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42837	Thank you very much. Several interventions that I consider to be important for the further course of discussion and understanding. It is the first dilemma of the day whether it is possible in the law now or two, three months from now to predict the possibility that those chosen and stable according to the old model remain, and that the possible new electoral model is valid for all subsequent extraordinary elections. A double model of choice in local and regional. I'm not sure such a solution would be constitutional. So that the citizens would be equal in front of the law. That where a stable government remains in this model from May, and that any electoral new rules immediately enter into force and apply immediately, and if there is an extraordinary choice to choose them by new models. I think that advocating this kind of thing might give us something to experience how the new model can work, but I'm afraid the experts for the Constitution would forcefully tell us not to play with such provisions. Secondly, whether the proposal to propose direct selection of leaders also withdraws the proposal that representative bodies should also be selected by a majority model. If the county assembly is chosen by a majority model and each individual joins the county assembly, then the mayor should not be chosen by a majority model directly by the citizens. These are two equal models that, as far as I know in the form of the law before this House, no one has ever presented. And if there is such thinking, it would be good to get such a bill to compare it with this decision made by the Government, which we do. This would be the third option. There may be a fourth, and together we can assess which model is the most acceptable for Croatia. But to accept direct elections by majority model for leaders and therefore demand a majority model for representative bodies is a combination that really doesn't work for me together. Someone asked a question and then why don't we propose a majority model for the Parliament? So all candidates for the Parliament's name and last name to the election. I believe we'll be able to. The law is already done, written. That next week we'll be able to get him into a procedure. One such mild variant with some shades we'll offer. So we'll see, and we'll see that those who now call such elections will support such solutions. It seems to me that such demands are always in principle debate, but when the legal solutions are finished, they are suddenly not acceptable to anyone or to a region or region. And I end up with this: how serious a quality solution must be offered in a transitional period. Whenever, whenever we pass a law on a new way of choosing local self-government and a new Law on Local Self-Government, we will have to make a solution. That the electoral law enters into force and applies from 1.1.2009, and the new Law on Locals on the day of the elections of the regulars which will be or otherwise, otherwise we have duality and would prevent the possibility that the consent of the Statutes to the new Law on Local Works of Representatives and Executive Authorities leaving ahead of the elections as only newly established representative bodies under the new Act can do so. That's why this government proposal on how to... The law shall enter into force and, since its application, fall into a trap and the possibility of different interpretations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42838	Thank you, dear colleague Lesar. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected Pero Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42839	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, representatives of the Government. I think it is important to say for a start on behalf of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights as we enter the project and that we should stick to it, a project with many unknowns and that we should stick to the old people's sayings: "If you are going to take an unknown step in small steps". For the sake of being able to predict all traps and dangers in due time if we are entering a project that is not fully worked out. And such situations in Croatia have so far had a lot of conversion and privatisation and everything else. We've all been entering projects like this, so we've seen what our situation is in the end and what the consequences are, such projects. The adoption of the law in the proposed way would require technical harmonisation of a number of other laws. Law on local, regional and regional self-government, Law on the City of Zagreb. It means reforming the entire electoral legislation. We should start with the basis of a broad public and professional debate, not a quick push for proposals resulting from the day-to-day political mood. This brings MPs into an unspeakable position to speak negatively of around positive shifts. So there are positive developments in both sides of the bill, but God forbid they're in effect now, if they were to be conducted by these direct elections, they'd make an even bigger dharma than we have now with existing legislation. In this context, it is also necessary to consider this bill. First of all, I think it's a governmental government that just ideally means a shift in election thinking. The proposal "de facto" means the direct selection of the executive head and his deputies at a lower level, their separation from the representative body. That's where the basic question comes in. If we choose the direct election of the executive head, will we choose the government's representative directly? Will we then determine that a minister cannot be a minister such as in the UK unless the elections for parliament have passed, and we have cases that the minister is coming from the stock market or that no officials have passed this round at all. So are we going to choose the Prime Minister and his deputy directly? And we know the powers of the Prime Minister and the entire government. Then shall we choose President-in-Office of the Parliament directly? Shall we think about it? Because we know that the President of the Parliament, in the event of the prevention of the president of the state, has great powers, including in that part regarding the use of both the Armed Forces and everything else. Therefore, if we go to this direct one, then let's think about what might come into consideration, and these are things that are very interesting, because if we take the powers of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and the members of the Government and the President of the Parliament in the event of the prevention of the president of the state, then why don't we go to that direct choice. By the proposed way, what would be achieved at this point? You'd just get higher costs, that's the only thing that's safe. If these laws had entered into force, they would only have higher costs, because they would have separate elections for a representative body, separate elections for mayors, or mayors and their deputies, and then they would have entered into this second situation, and that is the situation to be repeated if it did not pass in the first round. So, we would only have higher costs which are safe, and we haven't worked out at all, we haven't legally worked out, which means what the powers of that directly elected leader are, whether it's about the mayor, the mayor or the mayor, which is his, or his relationship and the relationship of the representative body, as well as how to control it, whether... We may have a variant of someone being in direct elections that one promise, and when it comes to power, let's say the mayor and the mayor do quite the opposite. How do you undo, in what way? Is that going to be a referendum? How can they, in what form, assign the city, the county, the municipality, if directly elected, what are these frames? Therefore, there are many things and many frameworks that have not been resolved in general, and therefore there is an opportunity that Plato was also afraid to turn democracy into a ruljocrat, that the will of the electorate body, i.e. citizens, is manifested in a socially negative way which he was aware of and Gustav Lebon a hundred years ago when he explained the psychology of the mass. Before all this, before all these projects, it is important for us to restore the people's trust in politicians and politics, or we know for ourselves what the ratings and politicians and politics are like. The people in Croatia suggest that politicians will do something if they are paid or under that system if I am there. And that's unfortunately, from day to day, I'm proving myself, looking at the media, all these things and speculations that happen and shops are all different. That the bill is a quick uncontrollable fire can be seen from a series of shortages of nomotechnical and systematic nature. Among other things, In Article 7, we are talking about the Government, a list of officials who cannot be the leaders of the Executive Authority has been submitted, for example, by the Governor, Deputy Governor and Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank or the Chief State Auditor and his deputies, while each of the special indents shall be referred to by the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament and the Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, etc. For example... But still no other officials are listed, e.g. The assistants of some lawyers who could also not be in double role, so we also have to do with the state administration itself directors and assistant directors and everything else. It is also a very interesting situation in Articles 9 and 3. In fact, Article 9(2) says: "No one can be called to account for the vote or for not voting."and paragraph 3 says: "No one can ask voters to perform their voting commitment.". While in the same way you have that ballots will be numbered with serial numbers, and the constitution guarantees the secrecy of the vote, and the man will receive a ballot marked with a serial number and you come there and it is known that, let's say Slavko Linic has received the serial markings and I know right away who he voted for. Who are we selling the fog to here? Well, that's, you're careful to say secret vote, and he gets a ballot with a serial number and it's always known, and that's supposed to prevent that manipulation from being any more ballots in the box, and now we're in an even bigger problem, if we're carefully reading that whole part. So I'm also going to name a variety of situations, e.g. Article 11 is replaced by the following: The number of signatures, especially for the municipal commissioner, 100 signatures should be increased primarily because of the suppression of non-serious candidates, candidacy. We know what our situation is and on parliamentary, 500 signatures he collects, and in the election he gets 200 or 300. There were cases that they didn't get that much, and 500 had it. So neither did those who signed the vote for him. Article 19 regulates the way of the day of pre-election silence, which is unnecessary, because the senselessness of the institute is already present more than the issue of the direct election of the executive head. We saw the question of Germany that until the last day was that part. I mean, I don't know what it's for, or it's going to change a lot of things to the last part. So this is all about a non-serious approach, that there is no simulation of everything that can happen, and that's why it's the only one. So, both proposals are at the level of the idea, the truth, it's poorly worked out, with the government's even worse worked out than the HNS club's proposal. So I don't think this is a political issue anymore. We have plenty of time and that we can partyly agree here on the consensus, how and in what way to come up with this, regulate everything, and agree with the proposal that me and Mrs. Ingrid have spoken to the Legislative Committee that we have to have a pilot project. Let's make the first law that we can pass and then carry out the pilot project and so that the provisions of this law apply. So where are we going to settle all these relations between direct elections and relations with the representative body on those cities and municipalities and the county where there will be extraordinary elections. For them, it would mean what we would do to these regulations, and for the cities, municipalities and counties that are chosen according to the old law, with us still in force, this model applies to them to new elections and it is legally clear, there is no legal problem and then we will always get into the situation that we will be able to see and already in the application of smaller municipalities, smaller cities how it works in practice and then we will only, meaning and simulated to enter and apply it for the whole country, and this is how I say to bring it, it would be a worse situation than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42840	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. There's a dear colleague, Ratko Gajica, on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here's your esteemed colleague, Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42841	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the state office, colleagues and colleagues. The immediate selection of local self-government leaders certainly has sympathy amongst people and I will at first say that, that we share those sympathies and join them. Of course there can be a lot of arguments in favor of that. I'll take that argument and skip that story. I'm going to say some doubts that this proposal or this solution is challenging at least at this point until some other issues are resolved with the desire to maybe help further address this proposal. When we talk about directly choosing the leader of local self-government, then we start from the kind of choice that will lead to us choosing the leader we want. Of course, the idea can be different, but let's say that we could say that it is such a personality, both human and professional, which will best be run by that local unit. Of course it's just a guess. In order to be a result, such a personality must be expressed. Now, I'm going to list here a few doubts that normally appear in the legislation that regulates all of this and seem to me to be conditional and this solution that we have as a proposal. The first thing I want to say here, in researching the Croatian legal centre, is that 33.8% of local self-government units have higher income expenditures. Now, that's the element in which we then place this directly elected leader of ours and look for his personality and how it will express itself. The second dilemma I want to say here is that I think the area of local self-government is still organisationally and functionally unstable or at least not stabilised in the way and as much as we would like and how we should. And the third thing that happens here, and it seems important to me, and this is a question of decentralisation of public affairs. All of this from that funding to how we've arranged the administration both by number and by schedule within it and by how the roles in performing public functions have been allocated are still somehow not set up, so it seems to me, that it includes what we would like now. The immediate choice of a leader, and that he be her personality from the beginning, and that gives her a good quality. When we get out of it, it seems to me, I don't share that opinion, but it could be said that this proposal is premature. And since we take it as something that's an initiative that we're going to build on then, I don't know how much, but on the condition that we improve what it's about and what it comes from and which it can't give a result then I accept it as an initiative and I can say well, I agree that it goes into further discussion. Now there was talk here today about one more thing, it's meeting the needs and interests of the citizens. The local self-government is and is organized for that reason, its functions are for that and we evaluate them through that criterion. I would agree with what Mr. Arlovic said quite well today, how it is organised and how the whole thing goes and how it works, how it is financed etc. and this, as they are decentralised, public affairs, does not actually provide a guarantee that they are largely, and especially not that all of this together, the whole mechanism meets the needs and interests of citizens. Now, of course, I'm aware that the whole thing needs to be upgraded and that it's something that's assuming that what we're talking about today and what we'd accept, we accept and that it works. If you knew a looser man spoke then the direct choice was a sympathetic solution for the citizens and I agree that he motivates both citizens and the person who is running and that's certainly progress from that point of view and I'm sure that's the way to go. Now I'm adding something else. Two things in that selection are important. The democratic election of representatives, so democratically electing leaders, and here we say that direct choice is somehow the highest level, the highest level, but it must also be the democratic functioning of the authorities, which means that it must be ensured that a scheme is achieved that will ensure the democratic decision-making of this strong leader and the representatives who are with him. Therefore, not only democratic elections but also the democratic functioning of decision-making authorities in the unit. It's not just a direct pick of a leader. Now something that is, of course, a great pretentious thing. I will try to say, when we talk about it directly, we choose one man, then we think democratically oriented, that he has a sense of interest for citizens, that he respects laws and that he is in a mechanism that has no doubt, in a mechanism that will achieve this first and where there is no doubt. That's, of course, that's it, I don't know what it is, I know what it is, but who knows? Therefore, it also shows that the fact of the direct election itself if it has not solved all this additionally bound into a mechanism that will ensure democratic exercise of power alone does not mean much to itself except at the level of the parole, except at the level of general satisfaction. Of course we don't talk about general pleasure here, and I would dare say that there are few of these attributes that I mentioned in practice today. And I'm going to say one more thing in the end about this HNS proposal. There's something I don't think is right, and I'll say it. The proposal notes that the element of active and passive voting rights is qualified through this address of the registered residence, identity card and place of issue. That's how a man legislates to achieve both the active and passive right to vote. It is the only exception for minorities who are then said to have a residence next to them. I don't think that such duality in one document can exist and that it's not legal, that we don't get into other things. But if you have an active and passive voting right based on residence, etc. It's for all of us, then. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42842	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, dear colleague Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42843	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Party of Retirement Club highly appreciates the initiative of the Croatian People's Party of the Primorje-Goran Alliance, which proposed a bill on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional, or regional self-government and the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. The Croatian Party of Retired Party Club also highly appreciates the sensitivity of civil society initiatives by the Government of Croatia and the sense of measures during the procedure when it referred to the draft law on the election of mayors, mayors and municipal chiefs. I claim this with full responsibility, because it would not have been good if we had discussed this topic or topics in the Croatian Parliament just before May elections for local and regional, or regional self-government. So it is time now in peace and with the possibility of analysing everything that is good or bad and with the possibility of unburdened perception of the future we choose the most just, practical and economical solutions in the electoral system. The Croatian party of pensioners here raises one big doubt. Have the legislators really put these laws on the scale by measuring the fairness, practicality and economics, the advantages and disadvantages of the current system of elections and the assumed advantages and disadvantages of the future system. We claim that wishes and good intentions are not enough for every well-intentioned and responsible person to identify ourselves without quality analyses for future solutions. I'm also asking a specific question. Could a ban on pre-election coalitions bring a quality and economic shift compared to the current situation we claim to be bad? In fact, bad practice directs us to correct the existing system, and it does not speak or give sufficient arguments that bad practice is sufficient reason for strategic change. And these are strategic changes in the electoral system. One thing's for sure. It is certain that the election according to the proposed models will be more attractive for the public. For the public that newspapers and journalists will enjoy it. It will be safer and more expensive as it is highly correctly assessed here, but they do not provide them, at least I do not see them, or we at the Club of the Croatian Retired Party, do not see new quality mechanisms for controlling the government or for responsible behaviour of the authorities. It is certain that future elections under the proposed models will lower the level of political ferple and political culture and will be in the public of personal accounts and very ugly images. We can safely perceive that for the future. Personally, and on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners, I am the advocate that the matter of the selection of local and regional representative bodies, i.e. regional self-government and matter, which defines the direct election of the mayors, mayors and mayors, shall be united in one law for practical and implementing reasons and understanding. Of course, Croatia's pensioner party supports changing access to individualised responsibility for the conduct of the executive authority. However, this matter should be well-determined and well-acquainted with the citizens of Croatia. I propose to the legislators of the two variants that for the second reading for all representatives at Power Point, the preparation of the presentation and simulation of the functioning of the election system for local, regional and regional self-government both for representative bodies and for the functions of mayors, mayors and mayors with all relationships and responsibilities. There is also a need to carry out a minimum public debate for these solutions. I also ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to define very precisely for the second reading the application procedure for the mayor, mayor and mayor and their deputies on the same ballot as it says in the proposal. And determine whether we choose an individual or a narrow team of executives. Since the deputies are according to current practice, at least in cities and counties, most professionals think they need to determine their responsibilities because the deputies are not the only ones who are changing the mayor, or the mayor, or the mayor. I also ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia specify in its proposal whether candidates for acting as mayor, mayor and mayor at the same time can be a candidate or even bearer of a list for a representative body. Of course, by respecting the provision of Article 7(1) and Article 3 of the proposed Law. It's not said anywhere, and it's an unknown to me. Furthermore, in front of the Croatian party of pensioners, we ask for representatives of the Croatian Parliament before the second reading or in an explanation for the second reading of the entire beauty of solutions and analysis of the functioning of electoral systems in neighbouring countries and countries that represent examples for the development of democracy in Croatia. I certainly agree with fellow Kovacevic's remarks on the secrecy of the vote, and I think it is necessary to install an additional provision in the proposal for a law. Because there are not enough instructions from the State Election Commission that are later not implemented locally, and we remember that before May elections, the State Election Commission has given instructions that the ballots must be turned upside down so as not to see the serial number and that the ballots should be mixed within a certain number. This was not conducted this time in local elections, and we believe that this cannot be a level of instructions from the State Election Commission but must be legal solutions that guarantee the secrecy of the vote. So that no individual, no individual, can later in the voting process know by the regular number for whom he has been assigned. So these are the things that surely the proposer must take care of. Also, that is, the thing that we disagree with, we do not agree in Croatia that we are talking about pilot projects. We agree that one, one electoral, should say an election time period in which one law was in force, regardless of what the need for extraordinary elections will take place, ends under this electoral law, and that we as serious and responsible people are perceived and we have sufficient number of simulations and sufficient amounts of public debate so that we can responsibly raise our hand for a system that will be better tomorrow, not just more attractive. However, this all comes together, I'm quite negatively ahead of the Croatian pensioners' party, and it's not because I don't approve of them as a change but because I want to point out shortcomings. The Croatian Party of Retired People will, given the correct selection of the time in which this debate is held, as I was saying at the outset, and the solutions that provide a good basis for the completion of these proposals for a second reading, the Croatian Party of Retirants will vote for one and the other draft laws which are the subject of our debate today, with the aim of selecting a better quality between the two proposed ones in the second and, if necessary, in the third reading. Or if, in the meantime, it is said to be the third proposed model. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42844	Thank you, dear colleague. My colleagues and colleagues, we're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is dear colleague Drago Prgomet. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42845	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the government has referred this bill as its election promise, however, that the intentions, I'm going to point out very briefly so that I get to the point, were serious, and such that as soon as I said in this style, my colleague said on behalf of the HSP Club that a broad debate on this model, although it is doubtless that all research has shown that this is what the public requires and expects. However, it seems somewhat inconclusive to put only this draft law on the election of mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb and mayors and municipal mayors without fundamental change of the entire election and for representative bodies of the units of local self-government because in this way this bill is shown as only one technical law. So, we expect the Government to then and until the second reading to direct and complete the accompanying set of laws to see one whole and that relationship between the body leaders and the representative body itself, their respective powers, duties, very precisely defined especially because of the diverse political situations, combinations and perceptions that can occur in practice. In particular, it seems to me that, at the very time of the term of office and the call of elections, there are already certain concerns that need to be worked out, and I would like to say immediately that this proposal of the law is under no circumstances to suffer a whole series of objections in the sense that certain solutions are yet to be made, and when we see how it can function in practice that it will cause a whole series of misunderstandings. Here I will look back on both the mandate and the election calling itself where Article 5 states that elections are held on the same day with elections for members of representative bodies, which is undoubtedly quite logical, and then the team would rather be logical to have such a bill, and even more logically, it would be that it is all in one law but it is less important that this no-technical provision itself or as the Government sees it, of course it was easier to refer to a more technical law in the procedure. However, in Article 2(2), the following paragraph is added: The bill states that the mayor's term of office is 4 years which is quite acceptable, however, the law itself does not define it, does not specify exactly that it was a problem in practice when the mandate begins exactly, when it is extended and it is particularly important that what happens in this interregnum happens with certain powers both the council itself and the mayor in the situation where the elections themselves are held. This is very important because it is often, we have seen in practice things happening that has accelerated some kind of activity from the headship itself and the mayor himself, because the council is already disbanded, so not only do those regular jobs as regulated at the state level that the Government can do in this time of election, only certain jobs, so the cold drive and not go into sales, into investments, it's something that was happening on the ground. So, in order to prevent this at the end of the day, to avoid it, because sometimes it's done for the best intentions, if it's a chance to master it in such a way or in such a way as to speak now with property, maybe it's a good thing, but it doesn't cause suspicion and public oversight, which is exactly why it's being done at that election time to make it very precise, I think it would be clear to the mayor himself, or to the headship himself, which is their authority, which is exactly what they can do and what's forbidden to do in the election time. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The bill states clearly that the mayor also has a deputy elected in the same election. However, I need to consider further precision here in these provisions that are currently talking about jobs, I think that they are merely hinted at, about what is the role of the deputy at all, and that in any case it should be more precise because ultimately it is the person who is subject to direct elections and it is certain that citizens are expecting, and it is clear to the chosen head of the unit of local self-government, and also to his deputy that there is no conflict that would then reflect itself on the representative body itself, and all at the end and towards the efficiency of such authority. So I think that their role should be more precise than it is in principle marked here. He would figure as some kind of figure, even I think it's more clearly defined in practice with one correct relationship, but it's already a relationship with the coalition authorities which simply must be so, but I think it's fair to think that both people submit to a direct choice to be his role then quite clear. Articles 26 and 27 shall contain specific provisions in case the candidate gives up. Similar provisions, however, are not included in the bill itself and for the deputies themselves. We probably have to produce an analogy here now so that the case is passed this way that identical norms are applied to the deputy himself, but there's no obstacle and it won't be an impediment if it's precisely stated in the Law itself. Article 8. I think it's the most discussionable but we can't even look at the situation here when it actually comes to impeachment, who does it, and under what cautel, or under which procedure, and we can't see it as long as we don't have the Selection Act here for representative bodies. So, as it corresponds, only the conditions are indicated here when this can happen, and how it happens, most of which, in parliament or the representative body of the unit of local self-government, it is not evident and this is the most sensitive issue after the election, means that there is a recall. And what seems to me to be terribly important is that all these politicizations and all these objections to that account would have come out and somehow gained the citizens' confidence that there was no speculation but that a man who became a sheriff, not a mayor, which is also one of the dangers, which is also a lot of authority, but then a lot of responsibility and there is no obstacle in the law to be taxed, but not as in the law that we have so far, let's say in some cases when a resolution can occur, when it often violates the law, and what's common, is so much rubber norm, it creates problems for those who control the legality that, I think, I should tax out what the injuries are then being called back by the head of the unit of local self-government. I also believe that this is what happens under the second law, so what is required for a common citizen when he loses his job, so when he is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months that it is not enough in any case, that these people should be expected to have greater integrity, greater morality, greater caution in the conduct of lawlessness because they are thrown out every day and in an obstacle, means in danger of breaking the law. Therefore, it seems to me that many are to be given, and many are to be required. Here, I haven't made a whole series of remarks yet to say but everything on this trail so that this proposal is quite acceptable in this first reading but that it suffers a whole series of finishings, precision so that there aren't any difficulties but that we expect the promoter to have one whole picture of what's going on, and this other law that's an integral part of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42846	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. It's time for my dear colleague, Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's my dear colleague Markovanovic's turn. Here you go, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42847	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, with extensive exposure to large clubs, finally and finally here is a colleague of the representatives, I will only mention two, three topics briefly. Namely, we're talking about direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors. I might tell the mayors a little bit more about the job. Namely, Chief, the mayor is in practice a manager whatever he takes. He also shows his management with a product, and this product is actually his arrival, attracts craftsmen, attracts industry, jobs, hence the achievement of work zones, business conditions, construction and housing. That's the revenue part. The expenditure part is a clear budget that needs to be spent properly and wisely, in fact, on the satisfaction of the population. Now, if we're looking at it perfectly, then it's all good. But if that manager, the mayor, becomes also a trader clearly where he trades for his own benefit, then that's already a big problem. Namely, why am I saying that? Because it seems to me that a mechanism that actually controls. Some kind of control mechanism is still quite problematic. It's a good thing it all started out pretty early because if one day we accept it then we'll have to know exactly and well control actually the mayors and mayors because the fact that it has been so far and we know a lot of cases where that position has been misused. Furthermore, the second topic here is quite interesting to us. Representative, chief, mayor, mayor. How many mayors can we best see here in the assembly because our mayors of the big cities can't even see here. Sometimes we just see them, come very briefly, tell and go, eventually or don't show up for days. Clearly, MPs could be mayors, mayors of small towns, but here I speak small towns of three, four thousand inhabitants because they can always organize a job in a simpler way and there are some big events and there are no. My opinion on this is seen and therefore I, in my own example, have shown that I should not be the same representative and the head of the municipality because it is impossible these years and a half, I have realized that it is impossible to do it properly and honestly. Next, the third subject and last topic number, we're actually talking about candidacy, the number of signatures. I'm prone to this as one speaker said before, but I'm inclined here to be a percentage because it's not the same. We speak the same number of signatures for cities, so small towns and those up to 40,000 inhabitants. I think he's here, and I would also support it to be in percentages because the percentage is important here because we're going to see a huge number of candidates. People with a small number of signatures, I tell you not only that each party will point out its own but there will be a huge number of independent candidates. We're going to be dragged away for a very long time, and we're going to be buried in people and everything. I think that's where we should go on a percentage, and that's how we're gonna limit it. I wouldn't do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42848	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a few words to say about these suggestions that are ahead of us. In fact, what we have already said in the morning is quite a lot about this, we have all agreed that in fact these local elections have shown that the existing Law on the selection of members of representative bodies, units of local and regional self-government, the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb has a number of shortcomings and that it needs to be changed. In addition to this claim, local elections have also been completed, after which various political trades, post-election agreements have literally falsified election results and citizens' wills. The proposal believes that better functioning of local and regional self-government will be achieved through the direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors. The directly elected executive head of the local or regional self-government unit shall exercise his legitimacy from the immediate will of the voter. This achieves a higher level of personalisation but also the responsibility of the head man for the successful functioning of the executive authority. The law provides for the selection of municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of Zagreb in two circles. I'm referring to this proposal by my colleagues from HNS and PGS, possibly in three circles. Article 30(1) states that leaders are elected by the majority of voters. I don't think that's a good idea, because in case the voter's response is below 50%. We see for ourselves that there is a trend in voter abstinence and non-election. It should be provided that the majority of voters who voted as the proposer predicted for the second round of elections are elected, meaning in paragraph 5 of the same article, and in that sense I think that this proposal is actually more acceptable and better for the government as regards this part. The bill provides for the selection of members of representative bodies by a proportionate electoral method. I believe that this is in conflict with the direct choice of the executive executive man, and therefore it would be much better for the selection of members of the representative bodies to be conducted by a mixed electoral method. In this way, citizens would choose not only the candidate lists in the selection of members of the representative bodies but also have the possibility of directly selecting a candidate or candidate. Article 4(1) provides that regular elections are held every third week or third week of May every fourth year. I think it's a good idea for the election day to be fixed because that would avoid the usual practice of last-minute elections. This law also proposes extending the Institute of Incompatibility of the conduct of different duties and suggests that one person, in addition to previously envisaged incompatible functions, cannot simultaneously be a member of the representative body of the other unit or representative in the Croatian Assembly. I think that's good because that's how it wants to achieve better efficiency of representative and executive bodies, prevent conflict of interest, avoid multiplying functions in one person to allow a greater circle of capable people to engage in the political and economic life of local communities. Article 15, paragraph 3 reads: "When drawing up a list, the applicant is obliged to take care of the principle of gender equality." Now I ask the question what if the applicant does not care? Does he bear sanctions? And these elections once again showed poor representation of women in representative bodies units of local and regional, regional self-government. There were electoral lists on which no candidate was proposed. As much as we have made a significant step in the representation of women in the Croatian Parliament at the local level in 2000, the situation is still extremely unsatisfactory. That is why I believe that sanctions should be provided for in order to disobey this provision. Not only is the promoter obliged to take care of the principle of gender equality when drawing up a list, but it is equally important for women to be represented in the prospecting places on the list, not to be positioned somewhere on the beginning of the list, and in this way the form is satisfied, and we will continue to have a council in which the representation of women is 5, 6 or 7%. The current Electoral Law first established the Council and then elected the mayor, mayor or mayor. With this proposal for a law establishing a Council session, or the County Assembly, the mayor or mayor shall convene. The mayor who in, and now I'm asking the question, what if the constitutive session doesn't succeed in any other attempt? The President of the Council or the Assembly shall not be elected. In this case, are the re-elections only being discussed for the representative body? If so, how does the elected mayor, or mayor, function? What decisions can he make since there is no representative body? I believe that this situation should also be foreseen by the Proposer of this Law and by law clearly determine what will happen in such cases. I support the direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors and I assume that by the second reading on the basis of the comments made in today's debate, the Proposed Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb to remove all observed shortcomings and dilemmas, and here again mention that dilemma which has actually been going through the debates throughout the day, and this dilemma is the relationship of the directly elected mayor or mayor or mayor or mayor and representative body. In what way, I don't think any of the other draft laws define this relationship well, and that in practice it could not be defined until the second reading that in practice this could create significant problems, so I think that this is really just, that this is the bill that absolutely needs to be done so that we don't have problems in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42850	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Should the mayors, mayors and municipal commissioners be elected directly? You should. Because this is how elections for them start when election results are announced. Citizens go to the polls, vote. The Commission shall count the ballot and publish the results and when the results of the publication begin the race for mayoral seats. Well, then, in that race, who has less scruples, and more money wins. That's what we're witnessing. Such an act of political will by the voters is unfortunately our reality that we must be ashamed of and that we must be concerned about. Now you can see the output in a model change. It could be. In any case, it is easier, easier to change the model, to blame the model for it than to change behavior in politics. And it's easier to blame the model for what's going on than to frame those who behave like that in politics. But good. If we're gonna change the model, let's change the model. It'll be majority. We know this one from the presidential election, and we can see what is wrong with that model as well? First of all, the low criteria for candidacy. In the presidential elections, we had rydiculous candidates who had absolutely no chance of winning presidential elections that were neither a target. To which the goal was some personal promotion and who in these elections not only dirtyed the campaign, not only did they degrade it, not only did they make it tiring for voters. They even made her disgusting. Therefore, the criteria in the majority, the majority electoral model for candidacy, must be significantly higher. I totally agree with all those who say there should be percentages here. Well, please. If winning mayoral in the first round takes 50% plus 1 vote then the 5% threshold is not too high. Because one who can't even raise 5% of the support before the race has no chance of winning that race in the first or second round or in the 17th, never. Thus, we would throw out of the race those exhibitionists who think that the elections are a good opportunity for their own promotion and for harassing voters and the public. If we now aim at direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors of municipalities, then this is how the government does an instructive example of how to work is wrong. There's a piece of mosaic sent to us. So far, we've got two pieces. The State Election Commission Act and now this Law. And there's still so much left. And no one knows what the whole thing will look like. And that's the whole thing. The whole would be a fully regulated way of selecting the executive and presidential part and local self-government, their powers, part-time work. To make things worse, we were discussing a law that wasn't even part of this mosaic this morning. This one. Directly dialed. It's each other. He, he belongs to another window. On the other side of the building. So these are pieces of each other's vista. And now the government is sending us these pieces of different, two different visions, but it hasn't sent us everything. But now we have to guess what it's going to end up being? And we can't guess because you can see in article 16 of this Law, with the mayoral candidacy, his deputy is also mentioned. And that's all. That's all we've learned about this deputy's function. It means the mayor, the mayoral candidate, will have to run with him and his deputy. What's he gonna do, what happens next to that deputy when he gets elected? What's he gonna do? What are his powers? How do we know nothing about it? Of course we don't know, when we were discussing the Law on Local Self-Government, which is from another window, and not from this, and if the law came out of this window then maybe we could be a little smarter, we could know what we're talking about. How else do you define yourself under this law? I hear here colleagues say there's a good bill. How am I supposed to determine if he's any good when they don't know what that deputy's gonna do? What good is it that we have a deputy and we don't know what they're gonna do? I can't say it's good, maybe it's good, maybe it's bad, maybe it's catastrophic, maybe it's genius, but no one's smart and responsible can plead because there's no information. There's no information because the government didn't send them. Why didn't she send them? You don't know. So, with this law, at least two more units laws were to be sent, the establishment of units of local self-government, means, but from this system and in elections for representative bodies. I disagree with what Mr. Tomcic said, that it should be two laws. Here, this proposal given by HNS, PGS, where it fits into one law, it works. Why wouldn't it be in one law, so let's see how to choose both the representative body and the mayor by one model can be, can be two different models, doesn't have to be two different ones, that's to be discussed. And it still needs to be discussed in principle, but it can be in one law. But it would certainly have been better if the government had sent it in one law, in two laws, in five laws, in as many laws, but if she had sent it to the benches when she sent this, because then this would have been a serious job, and this is a waste of time. We don't know these answers to a whole series of questions, e.g. When the term of office of the elected mayor begins, on election day or by swearing before the council, but the council will not be determined, we will already know who the elected mayor is, immediately on election night, if elected in the first round. What about the council? And only when it's built. What will be the relationship between the representative body and the mayor? That's the most important question, the question of all questions. By which we must determine whether to go directly or not, that question must be resolved. We need to know how he's solved. We need to know that the representative body must have some kind of control over the executive government, over the mayor, we need to figure out who decides about the money. Look, if the mayor is elected directly, and the American Congress decides on money, the American President doesn't decide. He has to ask, ask for any spending money. Therefore, we need to resolve this relationship, and we need to know the answers to these questions. We don't know what the mayor's calling off. When? Who? For what reason? What are the conditions for impeachment? What procedure? When the mayor falls, does this deputy who appears so shyly in that 16th article suddenly disappears and is gone and we do not know anything about him anymore, or does the deputy stay when the mayor falls? We don't have an answer to any of those questions. We have no question about the mayor's authority, etc.. Mr. Tomcic gave me an excellent idea this morning that I like. Look, we're probably about to get re-elections in a series of local self-government units, because at least I hope this store, what's going on right now, this anger, this horror in political shopping will stop. Whether it will stop because it will come to the top of its head and will require it to stop and demand the re-election, as it will not, I guess, be duress, that 350,000 euros are being bought in terms of mandates. So we've got re-elections coming up. I suggest, Mr. Tomcic suggested what's good, let's test this model. At least in those re-elections. At least in those units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42852	Thank you. This would end today's work day. The sequel is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and the first is the distinguished representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42853	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. We are discussing the Proposal for a Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors of the City of Zagreb, Mayors and Municipal Mayors. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42854	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Palaric, colleagues and colleagues. Let's go back to the atmosphere and discuss a set of laws that govern local self-government. And it's about a set of laws that are completely opposite to each other. In a political sense, it's a copernicus plant. The Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors, Mayors and Commissioners is on the agenda. What is the purpose of this Law? To satisfy the need for citizens to have a direct and stronger impact on who will represent them, or who will act in their name? And, of course, I also support that citizens' wish and if it were a real government wish. Is that so? So the bill itself does not solve both sides of the medal, democratic medals. Even expert debates have found that the law does not resolve the control or resolution of directly elected mayors, commissioners and mayors. And the medal democratic is not complete. Even more important side as it comes down, as it is resolved, as it ends the mandates of those elected. Do citizens decide to get rid of those who do not realize what they promised in the election campaign? This law doesn't solve it. If added, I immediately go to, in essence of the problem, if added that the bill provides for stronger legitimacy, a more direct choice so citizens would choose a name and a last name, a person who would behave as executive authority. At the same time, citizens do not directly choose a council that should control things by nature and replace that executive authority. So the proposed law is nothing but a pair of cheaters in my court. Why? Well, it's the order of discussion about local self-government that tells us so. Before this law, we discussed the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements, two: the Law on Local Self-Government, and even the election of representatives of the Executive Authority and representative bodies, which should enter into force immediately or quickly, immediately after the adoption and this law that should enter into force for 4 years, so to speak. If we did not engage even in the legal issues of constitutionality, we could say such a law why? At a time when newspapers, newspapers and newspapers are filled with articles about the purchase of government, the purchase of mandates in several counties and cities, when police are being introduced into the representative body. When the World Bank ranks 118th. When, according to Croatian citizens, 8% only trust politicians, when privatisation is done in a Croatian way, and you translate all of what it means, citizens know, we decide to have fun, so to speak in an incompletely resolved proposal for direct elections of executive authorities. Since such an climate has been created that this will solve the issue of political, political electoral problems in the Republic of Croatia, it is difficult to take away the impression that this Law is really a dubious fraud because it does not allow citizens to change their representatives. There's no solution to that at all. If we were to quote the provision, I think that Article 134 of the Constitution, which states that local administration, self-government, is being exercised by the election of a representative body, and so far it has been interpreted as being the representative body of the council, the assembly and so on, the Parliament, and even in such circumstances when the power is legislative in the representative body, and even Parliament has no domination over the government, but the government has the predominance over the Parliament, we are convinced in practice, we are sending half the law into a procedure that should take place in 4 years. It is nothing more than the “public relativity” of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Even the first analyses, expert analyses say Article 8 cannot withstand even the most ordinary criticism of the direct selection of the executive authority. And if we promote Articles 7 and 8 a little bit, and we say: when the mayor, mayor and mayor can be resolved, there is one convenient formula: it will be resolved. It does not say who will resolve it, nor will it be resolved, nor will it be proposed by the majority, nor by any body. Or the second one says, "It will be resolved when the court ruling is final." The court ruling in Croatia if I may say it by heart now usually comes to power after 3 or 4 years on average. And we're not going to have any case in the first year of the trial to determine the criminal responsibility of mayors, mayors or mayors. In other words, it's a naked right for one term. It's a goal straight. What do you do? It is necessary to sit really seriously and not compare with countries that have a long tradition, which do not introduce the representative bodies of the police, which are not in 118th place of the World Bank in relation to the entrepreneurial climate. Which they do not have, it could be said, the appearance of the purchase of mandates and the purchase of government so as to arrange a more important part of the democratic medal to control the directly elected power and to replace it. Without it, this Law will welcome 2009 as a proposal or allow, if adopted, that tycoons or better said rich people from conversion buy those who buy and secure their influence, direct influence in the executive government of local self-government. I hope none of us want this because we will compromise ourselves and local self-government, but unfortunately, there will be greater danger for the citizens because even now the citizens suffer because of the consequences that occur in local self-government. Not only are they dissatisfied with the Parliament, life is being realized precisely in the municipality, the city and the county. They're unhappy with those representatives, too, for a reason. If this is added to yesterday's debate that decentralisation is achieved only formally, that decentralisation is achieved only through the transfer of commitments, and sometimes even by incorrect transfer, there is no transfer of funds that could achieve the commitments undertaken, then I really believe that we are going against the wishes of the citizens. Or rather, the government has no concept of achieving what it has formally promised, the direct influence of citizens, the direct influence of citizens in deciding who will represent them, who will represent them and when they will represent them. So that I can decide and change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42855	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42856	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42857	Your application is here. Thank you, application withdrawn. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42858	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have finally received a proposal for laws on the election of mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb, mayors and municipal mayors. If we remember, there is almost no parliamentary party that has not declared itself to the direct elections of mayors, mayors and mayors. Let's remember, the former coalition in power came, and that was one of the most important pre-election promises, but unfortunately, throughout its term, it did not keep it. It should be said that this government, even though it did not do so immediately at the beginning of the term of office as promised, is still fulfilling the promise made to voters. It can be said that this is the right time to open a debate in the Parliament on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, but that through this topic it is also discussed in the overall electoral legislation. Because we actually have a lot of time, this is the first reading, and we can make quality preparation so that these are the last choices that have been made under the old electoral law. For a long time, there has been public dissatisfaction with this electoral law that allows manipulations with the will of citizens expressed in the elections. A big trade in the voices of these same voters. It is only necessary to remember the previous local elections when one party received almost 7.8 mayors thanks to trade and negotiating skills. It was certainly not the will of the citizens, but the art of lobbying and the law that made it possible. We must conclude that so far, all local elections have simply not brought to power the most successful policies and personnel but the most mixed negotiators and traders, who, past the voter's will, still make their fate. If we have all this in mind, then actually these last local elections have brought nothing new and nothing unexpected. Definitely one bad election law allowed what we now have, which is that individual councilors elected in one coalition cross and support gives rival candidates for mayor, mayor, immorally changing and playing the will of voters, i.e. citizens. Therefore, I think that these last local elections were very useful and have fulfilled their purpose because things have led to absurdities and if it happens that they will no longer be elected under this Electoral Law, but that under the new law we will directly elect mayors, mayors and mayors, I think that this is the goal and that they have justified their own. In this debate, I'd like to take a step further. Maybe it's convenient to say that this is both good and good at the right time. But for our chances, he's not enough. Choosing a representative of the local self-government unit by direct elections of mayors and mayors is certainly the wish of most citizens. But for God's sake, that's what all the countries of the European Union have, and even I would say, it has both Serbia and Montenegro. However, our electoral legislation is not good and we need full reform of it. Therefore, I repeat, this is a good proposal, but it is not enough for Croatia at this time. By the way, I would like to point out that on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr. Semnedi has mentioned several times that we have one of the worse election laws. And that Croatia urgently needs an overall reform of electoral legislation. Instead of changing what is not good ourselves, we are today allowing European officials who should have been an archaic past for us. The parliamentary elections and elections for the President of the Republic, which 15 candidates best discuss with ease. We all need to ask ourselves, in what serious European state does 100 parties come out in parliamentary elections? That and everything else is in favor of this bill being good, but not enough. I therefore plead that all together, both the position and the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, we ask the Croatian Government to come forward with a proposal for full reform of electoral legislation. So that we do not have the discrepancies of law and illogicality because we have enough time to do so in the way that many European countries have arranged it. So we're not the first ones and we don't need to discover hot water. Direct elections, that is what almost all parliamentary political parties have promised. That's what most Croatian citizens want. That is why politics, i.e., the Parliament needs to pass the law that allows it. It is up to the government to support this bill's proposal, I believe this is the first step in strengthening local self-government, and the introduction to the overall reform of electoral legislation. Because one Chinese proverb says that even the longest time begins with the first step, I want to believe that we have done this first step and that Croatia will through this time, given that we have a long time to make such a framework that we will not have a comment, and that we will meet everything that we ask for and require Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42859	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42860	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague said these previous elections had reached their goal. If the goal was to get things to the absurd, I don't believe it was the objective of choice, I can't believe even that the organizers had that in mind. These elections were not a goal but an indignity in which a good part of the people involved in the local public affairs did not have enough personal or political integrity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42861	A colleague didn't say that at all. Then why do you go in such a way that when no agent has said so at all, you hurt the Rules of Procedure please stick to it, obviously and too clearly to comment on something with the firm correcting an incorrect quote that is not said at all. Replica Honored Representative Nenad Stazic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42862	Now, after this intervention of yours, I'm glad I answered the line, because I actually have a correct quote and it's deliberately reporting for a replica to open up the possibility of a colleague answering that replica. And I'm going to challenge two allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42863	You've reached out to the replica, not to correct the incorrect quote, so you can't say I'll correct two allegations. You have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42864	Your Honor, Mr. President, in the replica there is a way to correct the quote within the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42865	The replica is referring to the quote, not correcting the quote, and with me you won't pollemize because you're polarizing with the Rules of Procedure. You're welcome to replicate the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42866	So this is how a colleague says that after these elections, the authorities won over those who were more successful in the negotiations, if that were the case, there would be no problem. But the authorities didn't win those who were more successful in the negotiations than those who bought councilmen and then publicly admitted it. Because you know when the minister says, you know, we pay 20 thousand kuna a month to the councilman to move to our headquarters, to another party, then it's not the success of negotiating, it's a clean trade, a trade contract, I pay you money, and you give me a vote without taxes like I said yesterday. It's a clean store. Secondly, indeed, a colleague said that the elections achieved their purpose, showed absurdity, not respect for the voter's will, that is not the purpose of choice. The purpose of the election is for citizens to choose their representatives, and the absurd has happened after these elections when this very purchase makes it impossible for their citizens to choose their authority, to choose their representatives at their own free will.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42867	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42868	Unfortunately, Mr. Stazic, as usual, this latest claim of 20,000 amounts to something he doesn't have, I believe, no proof but here's what he said and it goes public. And secondly, when I was talking about absurdity, I was thinking about the previous elections when one political party whose president and the media and one large part did not call him the president and the party, but the Merchant, I'm talking about it so... which the party received 5.6 mayors, so whether it was the will of the citizens, I wasn't talking about these last elections but about the previous elections when it came to this part of the first one Stazic talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42869	Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42870	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We therefore have before us the Law on the Selection of Direct Choice of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, and although the Law on the Selection of Representative Authorities has been amended several times so far, it has not, and these amendments did not refer to the direct selection of the Executive Authorities so that we in the elections of 93, 97, 2001 and this last 2005 were directly elected by the first man of the executive authorities in the units of local and regional self-government. And this Law, whose adoption is proposed, for the first time introduces the Republic of Croatia a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. The experiences that we have behind us have led us to the situation that all political parties in their pre-election campaigns promise that the next local elections will be carried out under one of these very laws, I think that the conditions and majority expectations of the public are really mature, that a law like this will come to the bench and start to apply. And unfortunately, we have negative experiences from our practice that stimulate us to think about the introduction of this law. But there's also good information, and disinformation about what's going on on in the field, trade is mentioned, and I'm going to take this opportunity to try to deny something that's mentioned in the current clock and yesterday and today, because it's literally false and people don't talk about arguments. The fact is that the city committee in Karlovac signed an agreement with the council member of the Croatian pensioner's party but not to give him the money, an agreement has been signed that provides the pensioners with free city public transport, a deal that obliges the executive authority to ensure that deadlines for specialist medical examinations are cut in the minister hospital for pensioners. The fact is to mention the amount of 20 thousand kunas but not to the councilman but to the foreigners, and not to the Croatian foreigners of pensioners, but of course to other political parties, in accordance with the criteria that the executive authority will naturally bring when it is set up. And the different interpretations I've been saying for three days on this subject, and they mention something completely different, and I think the lawyers are misinformed, that their informants have misrepresented them. But let me try to get back to this subject that's ahead of us today. I really think it's time and it's good timing for this law because we'll have enough time until the next local elections that will be in 2009 and newer and bring together other experiences that other countries have had in our legislative practice. What is a particular issue that all colleagues in their discussions stressed was the future relationship between the executive and the representative body. Of course, that should be further defined, that this should be clarified, and that in the final proposal for a law, this relationship should be clarified. I also support those who have said that we may also need experience on the benches, proposals or the contents of the laws of some other countries that represent examples of democracy so that we can use them in adopting the law. Just a few thoughts about the bill itself. I think that when running this proposal in Article 11. ... simply in practice cannot meet the conditions because we have the smallest municipality of citizens if the guide through Croatian local and regional self-government has accurate data with 137 inhabitants and I think it will be very difficult to provide at least two candidates who should be provided by a hundred signatures for their candidacy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I suggest at least in these small municipalities, let's say under a thousand residents that the number of necessary signatures is secured at a percentage of the population, so let's say that it is maybe 10% of the voters listed in the voter list if the municipality has less than a thousand inhabitants. Some of what I was going to say, I'll skip. I would mention just a few more things about the electoral lists that I think should change a little, given that I find it very difficult to believe that all members of the election board should be present at the polls all the time. I think it would be enough for most members of the election board to be present. I am talking about article 44, mainly because we are talking in Article 47 about the voter who is due to a serious illness, permanent damage or impotence being unable to get to the polling post having to be given the right to vote and the president of the electoral committee determines at least two members of the election board or of the deputy who will visit the voter in the place where he is located and allow him to vote. Therefore, two members of the election board were already absent from the polling post. I don't think the other voters would wait for them to return from this sick voter and only then go, then the vote continued. So, I support this bill. It might not be bad to think about and to see if there is a possibility of a joint law that would regulate the issue of election of mayors, mayors and mayors with the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies, mainly because in this proposal we have in some way two parts. The first part is the choice of mayors and candidates, which may be 20% of the total matter and the second part or 70% to 80% of this law regulates the elections themselves, the implementing bodies, the implementation of the elections, the voting and the results, the costs, the criminal provisions, the transitional and final provisions concerning both the executive and the election of the representative body. Here, therefore, it is therefore my suggestion that the applicant may also consider such an approach mainly because elections for executives and representative bodies are held on the same day of the third week of May every fourth year. They're the same election committees, everything's the same, they're the same election committees. I think uniform or the same legislation, the same law could regulate it. That's it. And of course I will support this bill in my first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42871	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42872	Thank you. It's incorrect that he told a colleague of Jelkovac that everything was fine, that it was legal. So, a legally signed contract between Minister Vukelic and 77-year-old Franjo Capan of HSU. That everything was according to the law, then what was the conclusion of the contract? And it is not true, because according to the won terms of HSU, it belongs to 2,000 and this illegal contract obliges HDZ to give and provide 20 thousand kuna from the city register HSU. It is in a contract signed by Minister Vukelic and concluded with 77-year-old Franja Capan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42873	Replicated representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42874	Thank you, Mr. President. I've had enough to talk so much about Carlovec in that way. What happened is guessed on one side and on the other. I think the smartest solution would be to have that contract published, to be seen by the public. It's not a secret document, it's not some commercial contract where business secrets would be revealed. I don't know that other parties in Karlovac thus signed a contract with HDZ or anyone else. HNS didn't sign anyway. Well, it'd be good if we put it in public once and see what it is, then there'd be no further discussions and throws and throws. One more thing. counterpart Jelkovac said it would be good to regulate the issue of elected leaders and the election of a representative body in the same law. We just did it. Now we're talking about two laws, not just one. In our bill, it is united, so if it means anything, it would be good for the government to listen to the bill, read it, accept it to go into the second round of debate and to install some of the solutions that are good in our law into its proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42875	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Vladimir Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42876	I'm going to start with this last thing that the esteemed colleague Vuljanic said. I agree that there are also quite some good suggestions and solutions, and I am sure that the government will also accept those solutions that are good in its thinking and I will use the first part, which is also linked to the correction of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's incorrect alleged quote. The contract we're talking about has been made public. He was published by the daily newspaper and in Karlovac, and everyone could see it. As for what Mrs. Anticevic was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42877	Not Mrs. Anticevic. You have a replica of Representative Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42878	So, what Mr Vuljanic was saying, I'm sorry, so it's about paying off the political parties. In each budget of the local community, there is an item of funding for the work of political parties to be paid according to the criteria set out by the representative body of the local self-government unit. And this is what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42879	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42880	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This spring's local elections, more precisely the political trade that followed them, the pressures on individual councilmen in various parts of Beautiful is our story, which is obviously here yesterday and today, it is seen from the debate, which therefore still takes place and points to the shortcomings of the existing law. I believe that the direct choice of executive executives is a better solution than that in which voters do not have a direct impact on the choice of their leaders in order to restore largely the confidence of citizens in the electoral system and return their interest in participating in the elections, to actively shape their own fate by participating in the elections and, most importantly, to prevent parties who have received less support in the elections to condition coalitions with parties enjoying greater trust in voters with various high positions in the executive government and even cities of mayors, mayors or municipal chiefs. Let me look at some concrete solutions covered by these proposals. I'll say something first about the government's proposal. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 states that the mandate of local leaders is to continue, the mandate of local leaders shall be determined until the election of new leaders. I think it should be specified that there should be no vacuum in the functioning of the unit so that it is prescribed that the mandate takes place until the handover of office to the newly elected leader, which is carried out no later than 8 days after the expiry of the legal deadline for resolving any objections to the regularity of the election. Paragraph 2 of Article 6 states that early elections will not be called in the event of the election's end of the election year, but it is not said who will do his duty in the period until the regular elections. In the event of a prison sentence of more than 6 months, the indent of Article 8 shall refer to the termination of the term of office of the head. I think any prison sentence should be for the unconditional shift of the leader. Article 11 regulates the number of signatures of support to the candidate for leader. And there have been a lot of words in the previous debates. I think it would be more realistic if the number of signatures were tied to the total number of residents of the unit. For example, for 1, 2 or some other percentage of the total population, but in any case no less than 50 signatures in these small units, although they do not need to go to extremes with the number of signatures so that their collection would not become the only obstacle that any potential independent candidate, even with an excellent programme, could not run because at the specified time, there is insufficient number, the number of signatures compared to parties, even worse candidates behind whom the entire party apparatus stands in the function of collecting signatures, and they are free to devote themselves to the campaign. This would avoid the flood of candidates who have no real chance of being elected. Article 14 shall refer to personal data in the proposal for a candidate. It is probably an error to leave out information about the date of birth because I think it is important that citizens have information about the age of candidates so that they can assess their ability to run a local self-government unit. Article 20 regulates the right to compensation for election promotion costs and says its height is determined by the government, but is paid by the local unit. I wonder if it's okay for anyone or for the government to decide how much someone else is going to pay for something without even asking how much someone's paid for it? A few words about the HNS Club's proposal. Several months ago, the lawyer's report on gender equality pointed to an insufficient share of women in the process of political decision-making. The general conclusion of this report is that the Law on Gender Equality does not apply nearly satisfactorily as well as the fact that it is not even respected by state bodies. I believe that Article 3 of Article 15, in the proposed form, does not guarantee enough that there will indeed be an increase in the share of women on the lists for the selection of members of the representative bodies. The planning and insurance of a percentage of women on lists should also be specified by a number which would result in more equal representation of both genders in representative bodies. I would therefore like to amend paragraph 3 of that article to read: When drawing up the list, the applicant is obliged to make sure that the list of candidates contains at least 40% of the same sex and that candidates and candidates are evenly changed in order on the candidate lists. A new paragraph 4 should be added in the following article: The candidate lists for the selection of members of representative bodies which are not drawn up in accordance with paragraph 3 of the relevant electoral authority will be determined by the competent electoral commission to the wrongdoers. So further articles would go in order as they are. Despite the principle of consensus, promoting gender equality is a difficult category that is largely not and will not be achieved without concrete legal and legal provisions that introduce this equality into policy creation and implementation. The proposed law does not solve any of the large gaps that would obviously be taken over from the applicable law. The funding of election campaigns is still not regulated. Scandals and constant speculations about the financing of political parties and election campaigns in Croatia are sufficient indicators of the need to address the issue as quickly and quality as possible. Unfortunately, Croatia remains the only method of assessing how much the party spent on elections and sources of its funding is only a mere speculation. Article 26 is exactly what I'm talking about. The proposal finely regulates the cost of election promotion to parties who receive more than 5% of voters' votes, which also shows the obligation of taxpayers to bear campaign costs, but not the obligation of parties or independent lists to submit financial reports on campaign costs. The publication of financial reports would be a preventive measure and a control instrument in the fight against political corruption. By publishing an analysis of election campaigns, voters would be better informed to prevent a further drop in civic interest in political participation and result in strengthening citizens' confidence in the overall political system and democratic processes. It is therefore necessary to adopt rules that regulate the financing of election campaigns in line with European Union legislation as one of the preconditions for full membership in the Union. Two remarks of a purely technical nature. In the very name of both proposals of the law, the mayor of the city of Zagreb is particularly stressed. I think it's unnecessary given the fact that he's also mayor, and the process of his election is the same as with other local leaders, so by name he doesn't need to be specifically singled out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The HNS proposal says, I quote, "Before the voter approaches the vote of the election board president or from him, an authorised member checks the list of voters whether the voter who joined the vote is listed and so on," the quote concluded. It is necessary to add that a member of the constituency committee shall carry out that verification with a presentation of the identification document. The above comments apply only to the first part, the first parts of the text of both laws and speak enough about how much further work should be done on them until the final proposal in the second reading, but I certainly support the idea of direct selection of local leaders and I join those who have also supported this choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42881	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42882	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am here of course supporting this Law because I believe that it is precisely the law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors needed Croatia and that it is necessary to finally get rid of the present system and prevent all these negative phenomena at local level where it is simply not possible to control the situation on the ground, and this is exactly where the experiences so far, and we have had them quite happen that the political parties who have just crossed the electoral threshold were given the opportunity to get a head man of local self-government because simply the larger political parties or independent lists that won a number of mandates did not have enough number of mandates and could not... in such a situation, power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have countless examples of political parties and independent lists, e.g., from 15 council mandates received 7, and 6 or 7 lists received the other 8 council seats. All of those lists, such a colorful coalition agreed to the rule and went to the heart of the strongest political parties, on the heart of the voters, I would dare say, because this is exactly how the post-election coalition played out the trust of the electoral body. The electoral body has, and even if it has not given absolute support to such lists, given the greatest support to those who have received, I will take an example of 7 of the 15 council mandates. We'll have a clear situation with one of these electoral laws. The mayors, mayors and mayors will be directly elected by the will of the citizens. Of course we need all these possible negative phenomena that could come from this Law in the second, and perhaps also to the third reading assume and install into the law. But we'll also have strong local people on the ground, strong leaders. Here I absolutely want to, here I absolutely want to point out that there's no concern that at local level, whether it's a county, a city or a municipality, there's going to be some kind of political sheriff. There will be strong local leaders who will have enough power to pull their unit of local self-government forward. They will have the opportunity to perform creatively in the pre-election campaign and after being elected, and they will also have the opportunity to form a strong team in the headship, regardless of which political parties or independent experts will be on the team. And of course the mayor, mayor or mayor is expected to have increased responsibility. Citizens are always right and citizens will know how to reward the man they trust, and they will reward him with a new re-election, with confirmation. And unless they're satisfied with his political action, they won't vote for him. Perfection in this part does not exist, nor are we perfect in the Croatian Parliament, nor are the perfect presidents of the government, nor are they perfect ministers, so let's not expect both the mayors, mayors and mayors to be perfect and to absolutely prescribe for them everything in which they should behave. In this section, I also adhere to that part of the MPs who have proposed in Article 11 and a certain number of percentages of citizens with voting law. Not to be defined, so 100 signatures for the municipal chief, but to be expressed in the signatures. Because simply, in percentages, because it is simply difficult in small municipalities that were often mentioned in yesterday's debate, which number 200 people, it is hard to expect more candidates, that more candidates will be able to get 100 signatures for their list, and I don't think it's right to put them in the same position with municipalities that count 10 and more thousands of people. I stress here that we will certainly take a significant step in democratisation of the Croatian political scene by one law and I believe that it is extremely wise and good to pass such a law and apply it from the next local elections. And I believe that all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, of course, along with those remarks that will certainly be made by the club and representatives of the HDZ and all others, that these remarks that make sense will be incorporated into the law. And that a law like this will indeed be passed in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42883	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42884	... We say, we want a direct selection of mayors, we want to personalize, make the recognizable main man, the engine of development in municipalities, cities and counties. [[Specially enabled.]] And certainly this proposal is one step ahead of us on the mayoral elections of the city of Zagreb and the mayors and municipal chiefs in this direction very modern, reviewed and continued one continuity started since 1990 until today. Of course, it is very commendable that the promoter, as well as the rapporteur respected and asked the opinions of the Union of Cities and municipalities. I wish that the same steps were directed to the Croatian Community of County, which is a very well-complex body, an association that discusses issues of vital importance and practical proposals, is also very useful to have by the Croatian County Community. The proposer here makes it clear what things he wants to settle, and I would only point to some practical proposals and remarks, and how to balance the relationship between the mayor, the local headship and the representative body. Or the municipal chief, I'd say the mayor, too. The immediate election of mayors by voters can represent a fundamental change of government in the country at local level. And the question is whether we want a strong mayor, a strong mayor, a strong mayor who will be responsible for the development or whether we will align that strength with the strength of the headship and the representative body. This is due to the separation of powers between the directly elected holder of the executive authority and the legislative authority, i.e. the representative body at local level, with the executive authorities previously subject to the control of the legislative authority and because of the power to appoint mayors and members of the local head office. The direct election of mayors transferred power previously held by a representative body to the mayor. The extent of the change in government depends largely on the relations that the law establishes between mayors, local chieftains and representative bodies, therefore it is necessary to consider areas in decision-making on legal relations and the three institutions of local self-government. In the first row, the establishment of a local representative body, namely, the powers of local headship, the appointment of administrative officials, the headmaster, because there is also a great power of mayor and mayor as far as he will be free to place "their" people, professional people, responsible and respected, all of whom recognize in small areas, and in a great deal more and more given the clear message of the media that help to make every action in the municipality, the city and the county seem in one reviewed, very clear way, with the desire to know where each lip and kuna is spent and how it is spent. Of course, the level of supervisory powers given to the representative body. What is the chair of the meetings of the headship is therefore very important to establish the headship and how this relationship between the mayor, the headship and the representative body is done. The power of local headship can be realised jointly by individual members who influence the balance of government. The mayor's authority depends on the authority of the local headship. If we really want this to be a strong headship, and given the executive duties performed by these two institutions, giving authority to a more mayoral, or more headship, and affecting each other's powers. What is most important is to edit, even more precisely, what the promoter has done excellently, nomotechnically, modernly using and learning practical achievements in the Croatian state but by using comparative rights, two powers should be addressed in the adoption of the budget, the most important document to be adopted over one year. Whether the mayor or mayor will be the one who will submit the draft budget to the representative body whether he will be the one who will benefit only from the consultations of the members of the headship or will propose that budget to the representative body that has to approve him. Also the appointment of administrative officials or supervisors, I find it more convenient for me to see the head, the Croatian word in our local self-government and regional self-government has already been applied, it is the issue of the election. Whether it will be done by the mayor himself, the mayor or the mayor, using the advice of informal members of the headship, or he himself will decide and bear responsibility for such a body. If we want to have a weaker mayor and all powers can be given to the local headship, but then we fall into a trap of collectiveity. I'm a supporter of strong people, capable people, based on their previous work that will justify their very choice in a direct way. The powers conferred on an individual member of the headship shall affect the level of authority and shall be valid and accurate, precisely as this proposal shall do in the best possible way, the power to appoint administrative officials. What are the levels of powers of controls given to the representative body? I believe that this is a big step forward because this very bill has been used by previous experiences and we must stress that our development of the modern Croatian state is only 15 years old. That we cannot constantly use examples that have happened in neighbouring countries that have their own regulated state for more than 100 years, I believe that this is a major step forward that indeed every citizen can see what his municipality, city and county is doing and increasingly educate him to see, look and know how it can be strictly spent. In this direction, it is useful to point out, perhaps to remove doubts about the direct choice of mayors and mayors might also be more precise then we fall into the trap that our Law numbers 500 members, that it is 10 cm thick and that it will not benefit from it. This is a modern approach, and thank you for putting this on our table.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42885	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42886	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must point out that I am very happy and proud that the government is Dr. Ivo Sanader listed and forwarded to the Croatian Parliament the draft law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors in the first reading and, in such a way, in future reading and through any remarks that will be made here in this House, will be able to draw up a quality law that will solve all these doubts that we had in Croatia regarding the selection of leaders in representative bodies, means the head of the units of local self-government, meaning mayor, mayor, mayor. We have seen countless examples in the past few years, in the last few election cycles, of various purchases as popularly spoken in the Croatian Parliament today, but I will not say that these purchases were more of an interesting connection between certain small parties who with blackmail, with the influence of the larger parties asked their representatives to be chiefs or not to support them, we must admit that in many areas, the mayors, the mayors and the mayors were persons who may have had about 5 to 6.7% support in the electoral body and that they were ultimately acting in these honorable and responsible responsibilities. I therefore believe that it was high time to approach the election means amendments, a bill that would specify the exact choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, but that is only possible through the direct election of these officials. There are and there are different examples, I have to remind myself in a world where mayors, mayors and mayors choose for a long period of time because sometimes it is questionable whether some projects that have real quality persons, quality officials can be implemented over 4 years, and indeed in Germany and in some other Western countries we have examples of choosing for an 8-year period, perhaps we should think about that in one of the futures that they bring to us in the Republic of Croatia. But what I would particularly like to stress from this bill remains one question that I do not think has been touched, that is the question of the deputy mayor, which means the way the deputy mayor is elected. IS this person going to be from the head office, from the representative body, or is that person that I think would be more acceptable directly also to the mayor's choice, means on the common list when they are elected. It is necessary to think about it, to see the world's meaning of the currents in the world but also to see what opportunities are in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, my biggest concern about this law is that the mayors, the mayors, mayors choose 50% plus one vote. So, to be elected in two circles because perhaps not so much for mayors and mayors of large cities, but in any case for mayor and chief of the unit of local self-government that has less than ten thousand inhabitants is also due to financial and all other things very questionable dialing in two electoral circles. I'll explain why. For example, because someone in the first election round can get 40% voter support in a unit of local self-government that has five, six, seven thousand inhabitants and was in the first round, for example, five or more candidates. So it's very questionable because it's known what will be the outcome in the second round of whether then we should go to the second round, whether that unit of local self-government should still be financed by 50-100 thousand kuna of financial resources to cover the second election round. Perhaps you should think about it a little bit, so if some candidate in the first election round in smaller units of local self-government has received more than 40% of the vote and if the difference between the first and second candidates is significant, it means ten percent that it does not then enter the second election round. I think that through the preparation for the second reading of the law, it can be considered a little bit with mathematical norms, and then in this way see if the funds can be saved by units of local self-government, mainly in smaller environments, meaning that have fewer inhabitants. These are the meanings of principle doubt, the principle of my thinking about this electoral law. But I also have certain objections to the current text, particularly in Article 11 where it is said about the meaning of independent candidates' bids. I believe that the existing solution proposed may need to be changed in a way that for units of local self-government less than tens of thousands of inhabitants put a minimum of 5% of voters listed in the voter lists, it means that support for an independent candidate is signed by at least 5% and it is up to 10,000 inhabitants. For all the other major cities I think would be even appropriate 5 thousand signatures for cities that have more than 100 thousand inhabitants because that way we know that we will have, we assume, a possible flood of candidates just as we had a flood of candidates in the presidential elections where there was a far greater number of signatures. Also, the reference to Article 27 is in the event of the death of a candidate who is running for mayor, mayor and mayor. I believe that if such an unpleasant event occurs that within seven days before the elections are held, the first round of elections should be moved in 14 days. For example, if the candidate takes three days before the election, it is very difficult to explain to the wider citizenship of that unit of local self-government that the candidate died and well enough to present the candidate who would be his deputy, so I think that there should be another form there because I believe that 48 hours, up to 48 hours before the election itself, to determine his deputy that this is a little too questionable in terms of the election day itself and the results that would then be, would that be the right of the voters either to the parties or to independent candidates. And it is also an objection to Article 36, which is members of the electoral committees that I believe that in the first election cycle for three and a half years there will be no major problems but it could be further, but in view of where an independent candidate would be elected for the mayor, mayor or mayor, because I believe that, given the current form of this article, only two members and vice-presidents would be appointed as independent and that, as two members and deputy members, they would be given out of political parties, so that if they were elected by direct mayors, mayors and mayors later, they would not be able to give their own members for election committees, so that there might be a little view on whether they would now and through the following reading can also be included in the norm that independent candidates who will be mayors, mayors and mayors and mayors in future cycles have the same right of their members. In full, I believe that this is a major advance in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that the units of local self-government in the future through such elections by the leaders of these units of local self-government will work far better to ensure that citizens are more satisfied and that in many things, they will prevent abuses and legal opportunities and abuses of different legal provisions that say that the mayors, mayors and mayors should, in the right sense, be representatives of all citizens and the unit of local self-government and that they really care about the widest interests of all citizens of the local self-government unit concerned. I welcome this bill. With these remarks I have made, I hope that the State Department and the State Administration will consider all these remarks and that in the future proposal in the second reading we will have a concrete good bill that will resolve all doubts about the election of future leaders of these bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42887	Thank you. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42888	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Finally, from the Croatian government in the first reading procedure, the Law on the Election of Mayors, Mayors of the City of Zagreb, Mayor and Mayor of the municipalities, which provides for a direct selection of leaders in local administration and self-government. I have to point out here at the beginning of my debate that the former coalition government in its pre-election campaign highlighted the need to amend electoral legislation and the need for a direct election of local administration and self-government leaders, and strongly advocated this concept of electoral legislation, but it passed the entire mandate followed by persistent insistence both the citizens and the media. However, the Electoral Law has not been amended. This is how today the new Croatian government fulfills with its promises of the former government to our citizens' satisfaction. This is another example of how this government feels the pulse of the public and in this way makes one significant step towards further democratisation of our society because there really is no better than this legal solution when citizens choose their leaders in their midst with their will and direct voice. An important law that provides for the representative body of local self-government units to elect mayors, mayors, the mayors is certainly a worse solution because the leaders of local administrations and self-governments have been elected in party cuisines and various occlusive games. Such a choice of leaders in the local environment has led to the situation that in very many units of local self-government or mayors, even mayors, with the help of the budget of these local self-government units become local powers that are so difficult to control because money can buy anything and anyone. Such behavior is seen and recognized by voters, but unfortunately there is nothing they can do. With this electoral law and such an electoral system, each head of local self-government will certainly be punished in the next elections because voters will not trust him. It's the best part of this law. I welcome it, and I hope our citizens welcome it. I am sure the voter's response to the local elections will also be significantly increased after the amendments to the law and new local authorities and leaders will also have greater legitimacy. Citizens usually say before the elections that they can't change anything anyway. But this Law will really enable them to participate more directly in the elections and directly elect leaders in their midst. Such an electoral model certainly contributes to the political stability of the representative body and thus the effectiveness of the executive body. And all in order not to experience a frequent repeat of the elections in certain environments that, with the instability of local authorities, produce additional costs to local budgets that could certainly be spent more usefully. Of course, after the adoption of this Law, the other laws that enter into this matter will be regulated in a quality way. In particular, the Law on Local Administration and Self-Government and that in an appropriate way, the relationship between the representative body of the local self-government and the directly elected head of self-government will be resolved and such relations will be specified and, in my opinion, any deviant behaviour that might follow should be avoided. Therefore, my appeal to the legislator that the laws that need to be passed after this law be made in quality and careful preparation. And finally my full support and another commendation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42889	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42890	Thank you very much. I'm surprised Mr. Representative doesn't know that there are no units of local self-government and administration in Croatia for a long time. Therefore, I am correcting the finding that in Croatia, units and local self-government and administrations will be something better [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42891	Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42892	The fact that this law is making a lot of progress and I think it's better standing and not standing. The fact is, he's an expression of political will. However, there is one basic problem that the colleague did not mention by mentioning the former government and so on. And this is that the question is that this law will learn as a precedent in the Croatian Parliament, that its application will only be four years from now. The question is in what form and how it will apply. And so I think it would be a good idea for this law to be done and what is foreseen that in the next few months it can be organised and reorganized because of exactly what you were talking about, and this is about the instability of the local government. We'll probably be waiting for at least some elections in local self-government units in a month's time. Therefore, it might be better if he functioned immediately and not for four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42893	Replica reply, respected representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42894	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Lucin, I think that this new Croatian government is, with the resolution of a lot of problems from the return of debt to pensioners and the reduction of import-export relations and a lot of other things it has done and this is one acidic apple that it had to bite with the fact that other than the amendment of this law, there are still a lot of laws that are affecting this problem so that this system can ultimately function satisfactorily. And I think that this once should have done this step, and I welcome once again this step of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42895	Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42896	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I also join the opinion of colleagues who support this Law, but I also support yesterday's statement by the secretary of state that our local and regional self-government has been better since 1993, so to this day, and in the future, I think that the elections are making it better for the elections, regardless of the unrest that has been happening to us since all the elections. And that's exactly why I think it's time for this law to be passed, and I also welcome the application of this Act since 2009 so that we have time to actually regulate through all other laws means relations between executives, executive authorities and representative bodies in local and regional self-government units. I think that in this way the choice of the executive body will ensure continuity in the work of the units of local and regional self-government, and that is to say the normal functioning, because now the representative body will be disbanded a month before the elections before the third week of May, and after that, if we have problems, if we do not have an absolute victory of a particular political option, it will go into any political negotiations, and this can drive away the whole procedure and the formation of a representative body, and also the formation of an executive and executive head until September, and perhaps the re-elections that make it difficult to work and one continuity of work in the unit of local self-government. The budget shall be made for the following year until 15 May. The first 3 months are always especially in units of local self-government with fewer inhabitants means 3 to 10 thousand people. It is difficult to fill and only those of their development programmes can achieve early spring are the elections. It comes in a way of shock, and that is why I believe that the continuity of work by choosing a head man means the holder of the executive government has no reason to do what, when chosen in one, whether in two circles I think it can at least support those projects, and also to supervise the work of administrative departments in municipalities, cities and counties. I also believe that this law strengthens the will of voters because the current practice that the political party is going with its programme, however, the parties have, in general, placed as leaders of the list of leaders in the future. But there was everything and everything. There have been frauds, and in some ways I think that this way we're going to invite voters to go to the polls more massively, because they're certainly going to have a leader, and the head man is going to go back to the units, the smaller units of local self-government are certain to withdraw voters, and that this law will contribute to the better functioning of the units of local self-government. And in the situation of going twice to the election for the head man, I think these costs are less than indirect costs or direct costs that come from simply non-functioning, I'm doing the non-functioning of the local unit. This chosen bearer will certainly have influence in the representative body. So it will be defined, however, that the representative and the bearer of the executive news, the representative of a political option that won whether in one, whether in two circles, it does in some way calm tensions in the representative body or among elected councillors because yesterday and today, 45 and 48% of the votes cannot form a unit of local self-government or executive authority, but believe me that there are examples when you win 53% of the mandate that you can also come into a stalemate position and that, for some narrow interests, you cannot form executive power and a leader. I say you can get 8 seats out of 15, but the National Minorities Act is a stalemate and we also cause problems. I think that this way just makes it impossible for me to say and calm the representative body in some way and opens up the possibility that the local self-government unit is working faster and I say it ensures that, especially there, in the local self-government unit where it is not applied, where the political option is changing in the timing, in that time until the election of the new executive authority, I think that the old government in most cases also makes some bad move, and then new leaders, new representatives of that unit of local self-government are waiting to solve these problems. I think we've got time and I'm sure the Proposer's also thinking that the next time, so four years are ahead of us. The fact is, we have two years of parliamentary elections ahead of us, so 2007. We can do so through all the legal provisions on the selection of members of representative bodies, on the Law on Local Self-Government, and I think that this Law has been passed at the right time and that this Law should and be applied since 2009. And then we go, as some say, let's apply it partially, there's going to be a choice, etc., but then we crash, then we rush, we have to pass all the laws, I don't think that's good. Let's go, I believe in a positive experiment, to improve democracy down at the bar. We've all been going together since 2009. Anyway, I support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42897	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42898	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'll tell you what I think is most important about these two legal proposals. First of all, I think we need to stick to the people's saying, "if you're going to take an unknown step in small steps," so we don't get what's been happening to us so far. Let's just take a question of conversion and privatisation. The same thing we used to throw like goose chases in the fog. In fact, what do both of these legal proposals, or projects, indicate? They point to a good idea that has and can be ruined outside. Just ruin it if it's so unprofessionally, rawly processed, it's not simulated and it hasn't given an analysis and an indication of how and how it's going to go. Here, that's one of the fundamental evidence and now that good idea that there's a big public support. It means that the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, is directly elected. If you don't, God forbid these two laws are now the final procedure and they've been passed. Then there would be a bigger dharma because what would come out of it. It's only safe that our choices would be more expensive. It's the only thing that's safe for us to be more expensive because they predict two rounds, especially for the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, and we haven't arranged anything. This project should be planned with the package. With the package whether it will be in one place or there will be two laws, but we need to be aware that we need to know in advance what the relationship between the directly selected person and the representative body will be. Therefore, we must change the meaning of the Law on Local and Regional Self - Government. We must amend the Law on the City of Zagreb and a considerable number of laws. We're just making a problem out of this, and speaking of this idea, we're asking everything openly, why don't the Prime Minister choose directly? Why don't we get his deputy elected directly? Why don't we go, Mr. Lucin, to the fact that government ministers can't be ministers unless they've passed, they've been elected representatives? Like there is, say, Great Britain. Why can't we even, say, pick the President of the Parliament directly because of the fact that the President of the Parliament is replacing the President of the State at certain times in the Constitution. So, all that stands for, so we're going to choose the mayor of the community. The government, someone who hasn't been elected to represent can enter the government. So there's no legitimacy that he was at least on the party list, that he got that support, and you can get in, and now we're just talking about the fact. We know what the government's powers are in relation to, say, the powers of the Chief. With the fact that I have to be precise here. That probably many mayors and mayors in the present, in the present way, have more power in practice and behave to a larger sheriff than when this Law is passed and when it is told what powers it will have. Be sure of that. You have an example of how much you want in Croatia, and now I wonder, if the offices don't apply, the offices don't really apply, who's going to agree to go to direct elections at all? Who will agree, a serious man, an expert man, a responsible man? Will he ever want to agree to go to direct elections if he doesn't know what the relations between him and the representative bodies are? So, a lot of things aren't solved here at all, and we're breaking up a good idea right now. Let's say, let's take an example of the City of Zagreb, although Mr Bandic also has good moves, so I don't think he only has bad moves, let's say the possibility that the mayor will be able to be a group of companies. Whether or not the law provides for the possibility of a conflict of interest. It is certainly a moral conflict of interest to say the city's representative to be a member of expert committees, a commission appointed by the city's headship. So, what's the relationship between representative and executive? Could this same representative be the president of, say, the procurement committee in a commercial society? So we need to figure out a project to the end. I don't think that's a political issue anymore because these elections have passed. Now that we can agree on, there is this conditional general consensus to go to the direct part with us saying that both the Prime Minister and these others are going. We can discuss, make these laws and make it possible for a pilot project. How is it possible to enable a pilot project? It is very simple for the provisions of these new laws to refer to the elections of extraordinary that will take place in municipalities or cities. So for them, the model that would have been prescribed by this law would be in force, and for those who were chosen according to the old model, means, in the current law, the applicable laws, they would have been subject to that model by the end of their term of office. And then we'd know exactly, then we'd know exactly and we'd figure it out with this simulation because we'd have a practical simulation of what and how to do it, what measures to take so that we wouldn't go into something again, and we didn't come up with it until the end. If you're just reading these legal proposals, let's say the government's proposal. For example, Article 9, paragraph 3, says that no one will be punished unless he fulfils his civic obligation. So he's not voting. And then you have a further variant, we know that the Constitution provides that the vote is guaranteed secrecy and everything else. You have that each ballot will be marked with a serial number. The serial number will mark the ballot. I know what they were thinking, they were gonna stop that possibility of getting into the ballot boxes. So now, what's gonna happen? You come to the vote, to your polling post, check your identity, and write down that they gave you a ticket of 10 grand 101. And how is it a secret vote when they know who you voted for? Here, what kind of secret vote is this? What kind of secret vote is that? Yeah. They didn't know about who. So if we're going to, let's figure it out, I'm just saying, there's all kinds of examples you want. For example, you have the example that 100 signatures are enough for the chief. It needs more signatures. We also know that according to the current election legislation for Parliament, we can go with an independent 500-signature list, and we have had cases that those who went with an independent 500-signature list in the 2003 parliamentary elections received 200,300 signatures. They're not quiet, so those 500 people who gave him support in the meantime gave up. What to do in the variant when going into direct elections, let's say for the mayor, let's take that example, he promises this and what, when he comes to power he does quite the opposite. So, there's a lot of situation here, and now who's going to replace it, we want to go to a referendum. If we're going to go to a referendum, if we're going to predict possibilities under the Law when the representative body can replace it, we didn't do anything. I would not like to further simulate all things, I think it would be wise to meet all the representatives of the parties after all of this, to develop a professional model where everyone will participate so that we go into something not in the way we've been going so far, but to know exactly what is expected and to make the pilot project related to the elections that are likely to take place in the municipalities and cities that would go along with this model, and for the old ones, for the elections that have passed normally until the end of the term, we would treat the laws and relations that they... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42899	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42900	Thank you, Mr. President. It must be an incorrect assumption that these proposals are inextricable, raw-treated matter. In fact, both proposals are a very good basis for first reading, but Mr Kovačević has been spitin' on the government, the Parliament and the parliamentary committees since early morning and on Radio Zagreb, and the plowing board has little capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42901	Replica's respected representative, Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42902	Thank you, Mr. President. I think the interpretation of the proposed law by counterpart Kovacevic is absolutely guilty, and I have also noticed that other HSP colleagues are only talking about the price of the election, when it comes to the direct choice of mayor and mayor. I would say this, that democracy costs, that it should be paid, if today it is one standard that we in the Parliament, who want our citizens, and we should vote as confirmation of their will, then we should certainly pay for it. On the other hand, it is a mistake to suggest that even if the Prime Minister and the President of the Croatian Parliament were elected directly, it would in some way multiply the costs he was talking about, where he was in some way reserved in his presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42903	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42904	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr Kovacevic, that it would be better if we had discussed this issue in the package, in fact, to get an overview of the whole picture so as to say that we do not just stay on the political declaration that is this Law. But I'm surprised that the fact that Mr Kovacevic referred to everything that should be chosen unnecessarily is that he left out what actually makes the most sense to choose directly and these are the representatives in this House. I think we should talk about this first, that in this House there are people who have received the voice of famous people, famous constituencies, not just through party lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42905	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42906	Dear gentlemen obviously did not listen, I tried to professionally display and simulate how and in what way to end the project to make any possible obstacles that would appear to prevent them in advance. Of course we're ready, we'll give the bill on political parties, we've got everything designed unlike all of you here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42907	Third replica, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42908	I would really be happy if all of this were so professional and theoretical but unfortunately this is not just a political issue but a theoretical question from my colleague Kovacevic, it should be a little more serious when talking about such things. Inability to choose between the national level and the local level is known theoretically many times, and it is not good to relativize to demagogy, which could all be chosen in a direct way. It's not good to mix the storks it's in logic... It's not good, it's not allowed, it's really more correct that my colleague Lucin said that you've come from what we're doing here to make assumptions about passing the law... rather than actually making fun of and mocking the public, which could all be chosen directly. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] And the President of the House Council is also subject to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42909	Reply to the replica, respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42910	If we are not serious about our colleague Kramarić and yesterday, and today he throws all day into the meeting so much about seriousness, I am sorry that he did not read all the materials he did not design. Go ahead and conduct the survey, and you'll see if the citizens will be elected directly by the Prime Minister. Let's just listen and figure it out. Don't talk casually as some kind of theorist and you know just how you went in the election, so be aware of the situation you're in, the truth would suit you because you might even become vice president of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42911	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer of the Law, Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar, please choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42912	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow a brief review of what was said on the subject of these two laws last night and today during the debate. Whether the proposals, as two proposals are similar, but also different approaches to the direct elections of leading people in municipalities, cities and counties, have anything to do with political trade or political corruption. Whether this proposal is on the trail of anti-corruption measures and dams, against what we have in Croatia all these days and months. Which leads to disputes, on which the elected representative bodies fall, in which we accuse each other for three days in this assembly. About buying mandates, why mandates are bought, which is the subject of trade, purchase contracts, secretly or publicly published. Who will be mayor, who will be mayor, who will be chief, who will be their deputies who will sit in the headship. It is the subject of political corruption for 3 months in Croatia. The direct election of the subject of the trade is fully adjudicated because the purchase of the mandate can only be achieved by the electoral authority and no one after that. And then a representative body is being established to elect the president of the County Assembly and two of its deputies, whether it will be traded and bought. Maybe it's for a gazelle or coffee in a coffee shop. And that's all, and then it's the establishment of a representative body because voters bought or sold the capital, and whether the mandate to the chosen man to form his office. It was an idea when we proposed for the fourth time and talked about direct elections because it was not for the first time that after the local elections Croatia was full of affairs, suspicions, proofs, and disputed ways of establishing local authorities and regional authorities. And that's why I'm not surprised that so much doubt and disputation of this model here these two days shows exactly those who are these days and months participating in the trading space, and sales and shopping. I understand that. But with so much courage, they're going to say that citizens don't accept it and that it can cause confusion, I really didn't expect it. So, if we talk openly and honestly, then it is a element of the price we must obviously give to prevent the political elite from changing the voter's decision through political corruption and giving that authority to voters and electoral bodies in the Republic of Croatia. The second moment also five times mentioned. The kid responds to local elections and we figure it out, we repeat it over and over again, and we stop at it. And why is the voter's response to local elections less than parliamentary or presidential? Because the electoral model is such that voters don't really understand who they're going to choose, because the powers of local self-government for citizens are still not clear enough, open and wide enough to see them as something that will determine the conditions of local life, because the money that local self-government has still isn't enough for citizens to realize that they choose people who will decide on the price of kindergarten, on the level of municipal compensation, on the cost of garbage transportation, on waste dumps, on street lighting, on the arrangement of streets, on the roads in the settlement, on squares, on schools, on clinics. And when we turn it into this particular jurisdiction and when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia realize that in local elections they choose people who will decide on everything when a man comes out of his own backyard or apartment that surrounds him, that's what I'm talking about, then the response will probably be greater. And when we give them another chance to choose the head man who will do it then they will have an extremely greater interest in going to the polls because they stop competing exclusively with political parties and become subject to competition between persons, quality, personality, perseverance, belief or mistrust with some of the candidates. I agree that all the big moves begin with small steps, with the first small step but the Croatian Parliament does not discuss this idea for the first time. For the first time, the idea of direct elections in parliament on the day of 2001 was rejected by the majority vote. The second time in 2003. Passed the model through the first reading, never came up for second reading. In 2004, there was no first reading. And now for the first time in 2005, we have a situation where the proposal for direct election of leaders offers its way by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Club of the Croatian People's Party. So, for the fourth time we've discussed it, not the first time. And we can't say that after four debates we have to take care of small steps, because otherwise it means that we need forty discussions and forty mandates to do something. A brief review of the problem of law enforcement. The government provides in its Article 65, quote "that the law enters into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal and applies in the upcoming regular elections." I must admit that when we wrote our two laws that our transitional and final provisions were the most difficult part of the law and the most consultation we had to carry out on that part to offer such a satisfactory solution without falling to the Constitutional Court. Namely, the law cannot enter into force today and then apply. A colleague, Josipovic, has already warned several times about such laws and has all been accepted in order because the issue of entry into force and the application of the law is the same moment. Secondly, the law must enter into force at a clearly specified time, day and time, not in the upcoming elections. Third, it cannot enter into force in the upcoming elections, which is the third Sunday of May, because otherwise it is not possible to conduct an application procedure in the case of this law and it must take effect not on the day of the election but long ago, which is 1.1.2009. Because in the year in which regular elections are free of extraordinary local elections, the law says, and to call the election, it is 1.1.2009. And finally, what citizens think about the idea of direct choices. According to our surveys that we were working on the cause of 45 thousand citizens in 2003, 94% of the people supported and what the agencies and the media did and the latest published data was that 83% of respondents supported the direct selection model of mayors, mayors and mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42913	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42914	In my court, my colleague, Lesar, quite incorrectly claims that this is an anti-corruption bill. Why? It is neither in principle nor in concrete laws. We all know that it is easier to corrupt and that it is usually corrupted by one person rather than the body, not 16 people. Secondly, democratic achievements are read in the exchange of power and control of government. No law has resolved the full control and exchangeability of the authorities on such directly elected ones. And the third thing I wanted to say was incorrect is that no system itself is good or bad. He can serve both for good and for bad purposes. As the proposed law did not provide for the control of the representative body, so the one representing the citizens of the executive government is not anti-corruption but is in fact enabling those who have become rich to impose themselves more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42915	Second correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42916	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President! This legal allement of a respected colleague, Lesar, is better off not correcting it because he has to learn the alphabet. I would only correct this part if the law had been so that this principle should be discussed 40 times in the Parliament. No, make a good bill of law, and one debate will be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42917	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42918	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! Here, let me also briefly refer to the adoption of this law that should bring news into our electoral system at local and regional level. At first, I can say that I support this initiative on the direct selection of county, city and municipality leaders. I can say that this is my party, the Međimurje Democratic Union, and in its party programme, and has installed an initiative to adopt such a programme precisely with the aim of making it possible for citizens to have a stronger impact on what is happening to them in the places where they live, i.e. In the end, they're sure that if they gave one option they wouldn't end up in some opposite option. It's a good thing both laws, so one law proposed by the government and this other law proposed by the PGS Club, go to another reading. Unfortunately, that was not the case yesterday when we had the proposals of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government where the government went with its final bill. We think he should have gone to first reading too, so we could have one whole package brought that would solve the whole of this problem. But this issue of direct elections has certainly been said, so we said a sensitive question. It will be good, then, to contain in two or maybe even three readings because there is room enough and it opens up a lot of sensitive questions. What we would like in particular to warn and what we think should certainly be resolved in this or this law, which is to achieve a balanced relationship between the mayor, the headship and the representative body. This requires clear legal provisions defining the roles and relationship of different institutions of local self-government. So the mayor of the head office and the representative body of the council or the assembly. It should also be made clear that the direct selection of leaders does not mean their unlimited powers and that control mechanisms, rules of recall and calling for new elections should be ensured. So if we meet these three conditions, then we could say that we have made a quality law because these control mechanisms have to be very important. How did these two laws answer these questions? It's actually two different concepts. In my view, the more quality proposal is therefore proposed by the PGS Club because it discusses and provides the possibility of recalling until the Government's proposal actually opens or opens the issue in a vague way. So it's two concepts. Some countries are allowing elections to be based on impeachment to replace a directly elected executive. The other countries again do not have provisions on elections based on impeachment, so the directly elected executive holder remains in office until the end of the term of office. That's about right there. That's where the government's proposal goes. Thus, until the end of the term of office or until the early termination of the term of office under the law. For example. The death or sentence of a prison for a conviction for committing a crime. In countries where there is no provision for selection, this is usually justified by the fact that the possibility of recalling can create political instability, interfere with policy development and implementation and result in short-term rather than long-term planning. On the other hand, if there is a commitment to impeachment then the recall provision must be carefully prepared to lay down the principles of the electoral system that the mayor has put on office. I am therefore for this option to predict therefore the possibility of impeaching the mayor, the mayor, the mayor if he does his duty sufficiently or unqualityly. This means that if the mayor is elected to a system that requires the mayor to receive an absolute majority of votes then the mayor cannot be replaced by a relative majority of votes in the elections due to the impeachment. So it must be removed and can only be removed by respecting the same electoral system. Some countries have dealt with it this way. First, I did the procedure. The basic condition is that the grounds for impeachment must be clearly laid down in the law itself. In the law proposed by the Government, it is not clear. Article 8(1) reads: "The day of the decision on discharge following the application for discharge or resignation." So the term of office of the mayor, mayor of the city of Zagreb, mayor, shall cease before the end of the regular four-year period. So in the following cases, that's what I read. Nowhere further does the law define who makes the decision to resolve? Or who's bringing in a motion for resolution? So that, alone, that item is undefined and does not give us the possibility actually. Turns out I'm the mayor needs to make a request for resolution. So some countries have a system that such a procedure can only be initiated by petitioning registered voters supported by the signatures of at least 33.33% of registered voters. The reasons for the impeachment must be clearly stated in the petition. The Constitutional Court must consider petitioning, issue a solution and determine whether the arguments given in the petition are correct and, if so, are the legal grounds for impeachment? And fifthly, in order for the recall to succeed, the number of impeachers should be more than 50% of registered voters, or the constituency. This is one proposal, therefore, which appeared in the debate and which is practiced in some countries. The HNS law of the PGS has a similar solution, a solution to initiate the initiative itself in the representative body with the signature i.e. members of the representative body. This initiative goes towards the government. The government then decides whether to call it, right? A referendum. Oh, no? It must therefore call for a referendum on trust to be called either by the mayor, and if voters decide that the commissioner does not trust him, then he must resign, elections for the new mayor will go. [[Intruder: Maura.]] If the opposite occurs, the representative body shall be disbanded. There goes the election for the representative body. Here is the proposal of the CNS, which is therefore to be discussed, but the proposal is on the table, so until the second reading, I need to find a quality solution, and I need it to be a solution in order to enable the recall of the mayor, mayor and mayor. It should also be more detailed to resolve the powers that they have with each other and have so that we can say in a harmonious manner, so that we can lead the municipality. In addition to this main point of view, my view is also that if we follow this trend and introduce or introduce majority elections for local or regional self-government representatives. Similarly, this majority system should be developed in the elections for the Parliament. We also agree with the proposal under the PGS law that local officials cannot also be parliamentary representatives. The government therefore proposes that they may be parliamentary representatives, but that they cannot be leaders or this, that they cannot be members of other governments, bodies, judges and so on, and allow them to be parliamentary representatives. In my view, it is a good solution that the mayors, mayors and mayors should not be parliamentary representatives because it could indeed happen as was said here in the Parliament, so that 21 mayors, 40 mayors, 60 mayors who will represent narrowly local interests, and the role of the Parliament is so much different. And that is, which is still important or the most important issue of decentralisation, the question of redistributing financial resources because if such a system of funding of local, regional administration and self-government remains in power, the question is why, why are we changing the electoral system when these mayors are actually not going to have anything to do because they won't have any money. Here is an example of a municipality in Međimurje, which has a income of 2 million kuna and has over 2,000 inhabitants. Of these 2 million kunas are grants and capital investments by the state. So such municipalities and such leaders will not be independent but will be dependent on, therefore, government or county or some other institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42919	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42920	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, although I can see he's not here right now, his colleagues and colleagues! I will make my contribution here in one principle form, and I will touch mainly on a European document that was adopted in this assembly ten years ago, which is the European Charter of Local Self-Government and Obligations, which we then assumed as a state according to this document and in this context talk about our principle of respect for this Charter, our systematicity, the priorities with which we resolve the details of this Charter and so on. I would just like to remind you that at the heart of this charter is the citizen and his right to directly elect a representative body and the proposal is to be elected directly and the heads of the county, or regional and local self-government. Furthermore, in this document when we ratified, not you colleagues who have been all present in the ratification of the document, Croatia has taken the obligation to implement two-thirds of the articles in our legislation immediately. We promised that the remaining third of the succession in the function of time would be built in, that we would follow it all together by fiscal decentralisation as a prerequisite for local and regional self-government to be autonomous in their decision. Then we made a commitment to this document that in the adoption of every law, every regulation, every sublegal act, we would regularly consult and respect the views of local and regional self-government. We have also committed ourselves to consulting NGOs, to encourage cross-border cooperation and thus contribute to a stable political system in a regular member, a full member of the Council of Europe. Now, colleagues and colleagues, let's go in order. What have we done here? I ask you first if any of us can put on paper now all those obligations we made 10 years ago and do we respect them in this debate and are we installing them in the new laws that we propose? Probably a small number or maybe none of us would know about putting on paper which is a little sad. As for fiscal decentralisation as far as we've done here, we can see even great objections to this bill proposed by the government. New powers are proposed in the field of urbanism, the issue of local, local and construction permits, etc. but clearly not fiscal decentralisation. She is colleagues and colleagues, she has gone very far in many Member States of the Council of Europe, and we must follow that path. In many countries, 40 to 50% of the total amount of fiscal resources collected goes to some countries towards local and regional self-government. In Croatia, this percentage is 5-6 times smaller, if we save the City of Zagreb, then it is indeed a very small percentage. As for the vertical communication of the state authorities with the county authorities in our case and with cities and municipalities, I disagree with what my colleague Kovacevic said, that we are obliged after this, or that we should all meet together and try to resolve this issue. Our colleagues and colleagues should have worked together on these laws long ago, in cooperation with the local and regional community, we should have prepared bill proposals. I ask you, how many times has Prime Minister Sanader sat down with the mayors and discussed these bill proposals that we have at the 16th session, which concern themselves. How many times has Mr. Palaric spoken to representatives of cities, municipalities? How many times have we prepared discussions, round tables, talks with NGOs, cities, municipalities, county community in the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament? How much and how seriously we have really respected the European Charter in preparing such important documents, based on European democracy on local and regional democracy, it is based on colleagues and colleagues. So we do not respect practically any provision, not one principle, not one principle in the European Charter on how to work. In the Croatian Parliament, I must say, and you will probably agree with me, that for 15 years we have been operating with the power of numbers, not with the power of arguments. I can't accept that. My party, the Croatian People's Party, launched a whole series of legislative proposals many years ago, and this law was proposed by our party several years ago. He passed his first reading, never saw another reading. We have proposed the Law on the List of Voters, believing that we must go from the voters, from their right, clearly rejected. Proposal for a law on the financing of local and regional self-government rejected, Proposal for a Law on Income, Proposal for a Law on profit where we have always clearly proposed to go to infavor units of local and regional self-government. None of these legal proposals have been accepted in the past few years, although they have been good. Look now, in this debate, everyone claims that our proposal is more complete, more systematic, more comprehensive, gives greater authority to mayors, mayors, clearly set up a model of choice and recalls, etc. etc. Is this proposal going to pass or this other proposal? Will the government at least try to install part of our good proposals into our material that we will have in the second reading? I doubt it, I really doubt it. I'd like to repeat something else that I'm not sure my colleague, Lesar, has been undersold enough here. Some colleagues yesterday and today suggested going into some kind of experiment, going into some kind of pilot project, in a number of counties, cities and municipalities going with proposals that are here today in this debate. My colleagues and colleagues can't do that, it's unconstitutional, it can't have a double system in local and regional self-government, we can't have it. That's unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court will refuse at the moment. Let's be reasonable. Let's not talk like that. If we had been smart, if we had accepted proposals that were long ago on these benches, today this pilot could have been a much older man with great experience and today we could and should have changed the amendments eventually seen shortcomings, but we are constantly at the beginning, constantly taping into that zero position which is bad. I'd like to repeat what Mr. Vuljanic said yesterday. Let us not be surprised that the citizens are bitter with our way of working. Let's start worrying about our colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42921	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42922	Thank you, Mr. President. Respecting the arguments with which my colleague Doric performed, I have to throw up on him. He stated that everyone claims their proposal is better than the government's proposal. That's just not true. It is true that from the opposition lines everyone claims and especially from the Croatian People's Party, but of course there are other considerations in this House that give the right that the Government's proposal is far better than the proposal that you have offered here. And you finally had a chance when you were in power in the past term along with the parties that are with you today in opposition, to carry out this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42923	Thank you. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42924	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that today we have devoted most of the debate already to the resolution of the unit leader of local self-government, and we have directed less our energy precisely to the need for this system to be such that it works. This does not mean, of course, that we should not look into the eyes and flaws that such a model offers, but in any case, I think that with one positive energy we should still move towards those solutions that will allow us to really have a direct choice of mayors, mayors of Zagreb, mayor and mayor of the municipalities within four years. I would first point out that in some ways we have already made this direct choice of all these unit leaders of local self-government and introduced a small door through a series of legal provisions that speak of local self-government leaders as a rule being chosen from the ranks of list bearers. So we, in some ways, told our citizens when we ran, gave the party lists, gave the list of independent candidates, told them in advance who this person we are proposing to be the head of the local self-government unit, and I think that in some way the citizens did, but still in the polls, in public research, they always said they were for the direct selection of all these leaders. However, in any case, it seems to me that it would still be a wrong finding, as stated in the Government’s explanation of this proposal, that this would contribute to a higher level of political stability for the representative body. And it also says the effectiveness of the executive body. Indeed, I would like to go to those colleagues who have said that, along with this Bill proposal, it is really necessary to offer those models, those laws that further regulate both the electoral system and the principles of the functioning of the representative body and the general principles of functioning in local self-government. In fact, it seems that other laws can go a little later, but this does not mean that the government does not have to offer us at this very moment, or offer the Croatian public an answer to the question of what kind of models it will be. Yesterday, in the discussion of the representatives of our Club, it was pointed out that there are different models in Europe how the relationship between the unit leaders and the representative body, that is, between his headship. And I also believe that no matter what is said to her today, the government is still considering in its ranks which, what kind of model would she offer to the Croatian public in the debate. That is, what is still waiting for us in the next period, and until the application of this Law. So I think it would be very good if you were just the secretary of state today to tell us what it was actually expecting in the next period. And maybe if the debate itself had gone differently I don't think it would have been bad in some way in the discussion of buying and selling mandates on how to resolve and how to end the local power plant, I don't think it would have been bad if the government was still saying what model it was. In the end, this Law really speaks of the way of choice, the conditions and procedures of choice, and I think that is the way to treat it. But on the other hand, also some of the provisions of this proposal also point to the problem that we had in the emphasising of candidates for the president of the country, i.e. in the election process, because it does seem that the number of signatures proposed here is too small and that there will be too many candidates. Which ultimately makes it impossible for all candidates to be equally qualityd because they simply cannot be expected from, say, some private media to give all candidates equal opportunity to present their electoral programmes. As I said, the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors has nevertheless been introduced through our work so far to a small door and this good reception that we have received from citizens should in some way be honored by the very serious approach to all these problems. And in the next period, I believe that there will be an even wider debate about all the legal proposals that will then regulate these relations. Because at the end of the day, I don't think it would be desirable for local budgets throughout Croatia to be adopted in 2009 regardless of the expected political stability in the bodies of the representative government, and that local budgets throughout Croatia should not be adopted and that local self-government units are actually financed by temporary budgets because of some internal political instability and unresolved relations. The public is extremely interested in this topic. I think it should be included in solving these problems. Here and we really expect government representatives to tell us what models of relations between the unit leaders of local self-government, the headship and the representative body have been considering. Because I'm afraid that without those details, this debate of ours about the direct choice itself has been kind of deplaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42925	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42926	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These two days, a very common debate was whether the laws were the cause of illegal and immoral behaviour in Croatian society. And I have to say that I'm having a very difficult time because most of us here in the Croatian Parliament have found collective responsibility. Yeah, it's the ones who are in surgery, the ones who enforce the laws, that's our fault, and we in the Parliament, and the judiciary, just collective responsibility. And that reminds me of what's fundamental in collective responsibility no one's answering or having an individual culprit. That is why I would say, especially in this part of the legislation regarding local authorities and regional authorities, regarding elections that we cannot say that the law is the cause of immoral and illegal behaviour. We can't point that out. It is one of the models that exists in the world, which exists in Europe and unfortunately there is no such behaviour. Which means there's something wrong with our society, in us law enforcement. We don't want to read the laws the way they're written, and it's easier for them to do deviating than these laws. And that's something we should all be worried about. As politicians, not as parliamentary representatives, and of course try to find a solution. In the part where they are illegal, I would say, behavior is a far more effective judicial system which at least in this part where the institutions of democracy, institutions, are threatened, should be ruthless and effective, which is unfortunately not true. And we should call on the legislative authority to forgive no one even the slightest game with the institutions of democracy. And of course, when we talk about trade, about moving from one list to another, it's part of an open debate with public civil society where we need to talk about the behaviour of our politicians, political parties and the unacceptable tolerance of such behaviour. It's not punishable, but it's immoral. Ruins the reputation of politics as a craftsman, destroys the reputation of parties. We need to open up public debates with civil society organisations and try to stop these trends through negative assessments of such behaviours. Stop trends. And if we are not far more responsible in public behavior, far more responsible in sanctioning illegal behavior we will always try to say, so that's why the laws are bad, so they allow us to act like one. Therefore, I could not agree with the majority of those who tried to establish collective responsibility in their discussions, it is evident that we have to change practice and that the laws need to be discussed differently. And when we come to what kind of electoral system we want recorded that we now have a different model proposed by both the government and the HNS PGS Club. A different model of choice. Whether it's better or worse, I believe given the practice in Europe, given our practice of just over 12 years that we can really give an assessment which model is better and not be guided by the assessment of that model with negative phenomena or phenomena that may happen and then we'll be right again. No, let's try to evaluate the models, in the assessment of these models I have even introduced another important assumption why citizens are so uninterested in local self-government, so they clearly lack their strength in this direct management through local and regional self-government and on the other hand they are dissatisfied with the effects of local and regional self-government, so the answer is whether the direct selection model with very clear responsibilities of the head, whether it is the mayor, the mayor or the mayor can very clearly address that dissatisfaction with that administration. The answer is work, it is certain that direct choice, direct responsibility, is greater responsibility because it was personally chosen by something that may improve the efficiency of administration in local and regional self-government. Therefore, another element of why we should resort to a direct choice. So, personally, like my club, I advocate that we finally realize that a better model than the one we have days and that it is a certain practice in other countries I suggest we accept that we go into these direct choices models. What I also want to point out is that as Parliament's representatives, it would be good to support one and another model, it's first reading, we're not yet committed, why take away the club's right to further work by listening to today's or yesterday's debates to try to fix their models, and we'll be far easier to choose one of those two models in the second reading, we'll see who'll be better at fixing these proposed first readings. We will also try to see if the methodology proposed by the HNS PGS Club is really better to choose not only leaders, but also the representative body. So why take away one club's ability to try to work over the next three or four months and suggest I say a better quality proposal. And that's why I really don't see any reason for us to accept the motion to change the selection model from both government and this. And be assured other than our political, party debates, I am convinced that the secretary of state had several meetings with the units of local self-government or their association and that he listened and listened to suggestions and advice. It's the same club as the HNS PGS, so I'd say the preparation of these materials has us and expert consultations, expert discussions and that's why we have models like this. When we talk about the HNS proposal, I only personally think that I would rather support a mixed election system for members of the representative body than what the Club has offered. When we talk about experiments whether or not to try to test this, I don't think it would be good, because really then we could cause possible negative events, because someone will deliberately enter the elections to destroy power and destabilise power in a city, municipality or county. So I think then, as a eager experiment, we could get negative effects because we see that deviation in society is something that's everyday. I suggest something else, from expert discussions, professional documents a mass of articles I'd say the elaborates of our central government office we have a clear indication of our weaknesses in the system of local self-government, which is a monotype system. Here, during yesterday's proposal for a law on local self-government, we see and great cities appear. The question remains whether with a multi-type system of units of local self-government we can get the opportunity to define stronger and weaker mayors, so over the next four years we will see what this means to a stronger mayor with greater responsibility if it is negative, positive. Or vice versa with a stronger role as a representative body, so the council can see if that might be a better answer in our practice, I would say applying these legal models. Therefore, it is obvious that by further supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, where several types of units of local self-government will be introduced, we can give ourselves the opportunity to test directly elected leaders with stronger or weaker powers and that is the reason why the government's proposal is incomplete. In order to avoid any criticism, in order to avoid future fears of this Law, we should, however, define in the Law on Local Self-Government the relationship between the representative body and the executive authority of these individuals to remove any doubt that this will mean conflict, mean paralysis, the weaknesses of the new model and the new system. And so by the second reading, it would certainly be good to have a second reading in which we will see very clearly in strengthening the weaker mayor, i.e. the defined relations between representative and executive authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42927	Thank you very much. Replica's respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42928	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to replicate that part of the speech of the esteemed representative Linic, who speaks of us talking about illegal behavior here, that we take collective responsibility and that the institutions of the judiciary should resolve it. Unfortunately, we are here talking about legal behaviour as morally questionable as it is, but certainly this behavior within the framework of the existing law on the direct selection of local government leaders, allows what most voters would certainly not want to happen. And it is precisely that the Croats would not always muddle themselves that some legal and Croat women thank, that some legal solutions are good, so they succeed in civilised Europe and fail us, so yesterday we heard that there is also a danger of introducing a direct election of leaders that will not be democratic in this Croatia at all. I would quote to Mrs Helga Larsen, who studied the situation in the local self-government in Europe prior to the introduction into most of the European states of direct elections, which says: "When seats in the council are divided between parties or groups in proportion to their election results today, it is rare that one party has a total majority. As a consequence, the parties and their candidates for the main affairs begin to negotiate, given that the different parties did not necessarily make it clear before the election of voters who they would cooperate with or join an alliance of voters in a certain way, they are kept in the dark as to who would be mayor long after the elections were held. Coalition talks in smoky rooms are seen by many before as a dirty part of the political process, especially when the result of the negotiations is that the party that went out as a loser still wins or retains the mayor's position." Note, this is a survey of local self-government in Europe and the result of such research is the introduction of direct elections in most European countries today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42929	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42930	My colleague Lovrin, when I talk about illegalities, then I'm talking about maybe there's bribery and corruption in the creation of power. Bribes and corruption are prohibited by law, they are illegal acts and only the involvement of the State Attorney's Office and USKOK in the processes that took place in the last 30 days to find a sign that illegal actions exist. If they really existed, we'll hear it from the report, but there's no way we can view bribery and corruption as immoral behavior, it's primarily illegal and it's something that the judiciary has to contain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42931	Thank you. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42932	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! Here, the position of the professional and general public, the position of the National Association of Municipalities and Cities, and of the County, the position of almost all parliamentary parties should indeed guarantee that this proposal of the direct election of mayor will certainly be accepted by consensus and sent to the second reading. The goal is for every political option, including any candidate who goes to the elections, to come to power and act as authorities, because only from a position can he then realise all the election programmes he has promised voters in the elections. Clearly, in this desire to get into position, all legal opportunities are used to form authorities, and this is precisely what the existing legal options now have for the result is often exactly what voters do not want, resulting in those people who have received a negligible percentage of voter confidence coming to the top places in local self-government. And even though we just heard about illegal behaviors now, but we release those illegal behaviors because we have mechanisms, we have the judiciary and let these illegal acts solve the judiciary. I'm going to talk here about legitimate behaviors that lead to results most citizens don't want, and so it's our job to give us such a legal framework that it can't happen. We often listen here these days about some purchases like this and such, immoral offers, negotiations, listening here on the left is always directed to the right, but let's be honest that they've all been negotiating and those losers who haven't been able to negotiate are people and dissatisfied. And that there were all kinds of specialties in these negotiations and also specialties in the law of unfounded division of mandates, we know this from the experience of the city of Split in the last term of 2001-2005, where the mayor's mandate was shared, so the Spanish never knew who their mayor really was. We've got a look at us and now a case of mayors taking pre-painted pictures as two mayors, so they're going to split their mandate. So, I think our task is to open the way for the good law, just the one that is now proposed, to fully solve cases in which we will allow voters to choose the local authorities' leaders to know that it is the one to whom most voters have given support will be their chief, mayor or mayor. And just as I have quoted this professional work of local self-government experience in the last ten years, they say that a number of positive consequences of the election, the direct election of the mayor, and if almost 90% of the countries have done so other than some Scandinavian in Europe, I certainly don't think Croatia will be wrong if it goes that way. It is clear that a number of questions are being raised, and it is clear that a colleague said that the PGS proposal is more extensive, better, fuller, etc. Whether it is better to discuss it, the more extensive it certainly is and is more extensive because it treats matter that is covered by an existing law which is in force and works of matter under the Law on Local Self-Government and Administration. I can agree, I would even personally support that it is possible to put all the better into one electoral law and election for the representative body and for the executive body, and certainly here I am telling the Government not to forget to regulate the elections for local self-government because we really now have a nonsensence to propose a direct selection of mayors and mayors and that we have a political choice proportionate to the lists in local committees that often have 50 voters of everything. So, of course, let's not forget somewhere and local self-government and regulate elections for the councils of local committees. It is clear that this law itself is just opening up and proving the political will to directly elect mayors and that it will not be possible to apply if it is not parallelly arranged, I said yesterday, the question of all issues and this is the responsibility of the elected mayor and certainly it is the relationship between the directly elected representative body and the directly elected head of the executive authority, and therefore this issue should be clearly and thoroughly resolved by the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. I would not support the proposal that we have heard today that it is going on partially so that in one local unit it is possible for these extraordinary elections to apply this model, primarily because other laws have not been resolved and that in other laws then we should have double provisions for the directly and indirectly elected mayor and that would not work, it would not be fair for one unit to impose one electoral system, the other unit. This could only be if, as counterpart Linic noted, he introduced not monotypic but the possibility of selecting each local unit according to his terms to decide on it. Certainly, in the government's draft law, I would warn of a number, an absolute number of support for a candidate, which is very difficult to implement since we know that we have municipalities of one hundred fifty and ten times as many residents and voters, so perhaps we should consider some percentage that should support the candidacy. In any event, the second reading should arrange the time of entry of the elected official, hence the start of his term of office and should not tie him to the establishment of a municipal, city council or county assembly. It is therefore necessary to make this entry into the mandate independent of the Council's constitution and to establish it precisely and in detail. It should also be considered and well regulated by the relations between the deputy and the mayor and possibly what happens in the case of the mayor's fall with the deputy and who is acting in office until the next election. And finally, I would like to warn of one language irregularity, and this is going through both legislative proposals, and it's also a little bit the other way around the existing Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies and it's about determining the day of the election, and then we have a syntagma of May or May there. In Croatian, May means 5th month and nothing else, and May would be a plaonism that is not in the spirit of the Croatian language but someone else and therefore I ask that correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42933	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42934	Thank you very much. A colleague said, I agree, perhaps dividing the mandate and is not the best way to rule either in the county or in the city. But it is certainly more appropriate and honorable than buying the difference when you need to draw up power from another party or party that was on the other side as was the case in Zadar in the last term.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42935	What did you fix? You commented, you commented on the division of the county mandate in one county. Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42936	Dear Mr. President, the distinguished colleague said when she spoke about why the government's proposal on direct elections did not regulate the issue of the relationship between the directly elected leader and the representative body and said it was not because it was settled by the existing law. It wasn't settled by the existing law, and that's what I was talking about. That's why they're raw proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42937	Well, she didn't say that. Well, don't, so why? Why, why go with replicas through the form of an incorrect quote. The difference is, the difference is the answer to the quote, it's a replica, from the institute of an incorrect allegation. Don't go that way. Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42938	I accept and agree fully with my colleague Lovrin that the solutions to the direct election of mayors, mayors, mayors and so on are a democratic step forward. But I don't accept and I can't accept the argument she took to show that the current solution is bad. So she took an example of Split, where the legitimately legal two parties publicly divided places, places. For two years, one party, the other, the second year the other party has two years each. I wish my colleague Lovrin had taken the current current example of Split where we got a mayor who wore a list that didn't even get 20%, and bought a councilman who was on the second list. On the SDP list she got, I don't know, 40, 30 and something, 30 and something. So it would be good if we talked and argued that we would take the current language, fresher and better examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42939	Replication response. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42940	Therefore, there cannot be a legal division of the mandate because the law lays down the duration of the term of office of 4 years. Thus, precalculating that someone will share the mandate is not legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42941	Second replica, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42942	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the esteemed colleague is, well, I'd say some others, going in the direction that existing models wouldn't be good if they were partially applied i.e. to be used at all before it can be used as a whole. I think, and also by consulting some legal experts who are following this matter that the case is the other way around. We actually introduce brand new models and then apply them to the territory of the entire country, and we don't know how they're going to be implemented in practice? In my opinion, and we have cases like this, and in some European countries, I think it would be very good if we went with some model to actually try to apply it for at least one time and see the results of that model. I think that such thinking would bring us much better things, and not that when we apply a model we don't know how it resuscitates in practice and that if it causes great problems as we see from practice, I wouldn't be talking about these sales that have been spoken so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42943	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42944	Well, here I was talking about, so it wouldn't be good if it went straight into the law. I think this bill came at an excellent time, and that means early enough before the next regular local elections just so that other laws that treat matter that must be arranged for this law to be applied, have not yet been passed and we will hopefully debate them thoroughly here in this assembly. And it is primarily the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which will speak the future and the provisions on the relationship between the directly elected representative body and the directly elected leader. It is true that some European countries have different systems of choice, but this has been resolved in a way that is left to the local unit to choose for itself one of the legal options it holds to be the best for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42945	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. So you know by ending any election cycle, any election from the President of the Republic, from the election for Parliament, for parliamentarians, there is always a public debate from local elections. The focus of the public, although it is primarily focused on post-election government building in any case, has a huge public interest that is then reflected on this House and is almost explicitly held after each election by the debate on the initiative of amending electoral legislation. Of course, even after these local elections came a strong interest in the Croatian public, which focused primarily on certain illogicalities, certain behaviours for which citizens of course did not consider to be good. And, of course, the exit was required as usual to change the legislation. Clearly believing that the amendment to the legislation would create another model of conduct would almost regulate relations in one moral sense, ethically and as the best solution recently mentioned when it comes to almost all levels of choice by making clear elections for the President of the Republic almost undivided opinion that they are acceptable in terms of the electoral standard at this point because they are direct. People are elected, the President of the Republic is elected. The elections for the Croatian Parliament and the elections for local self-government, both regional and regional, are under the auspices of the public and a strong press that changing the model itself will change both the nature and character of the post-election way of forming the government. It will almost change the character of ourselves. Of course, such expectations of any law and this law cannot be entirely correct. It's the same parallel as if we were, when we thought that the transformation of social into private welfare would follow and that these companies would, by the very fact that they were no longer the owner of the state, but a private individual would come to economic well-being. Of course it was fiction, a delusion like this in nature, in character wrong. The electoral legislation will not resolve immorality, it will not solve the dishonest actions of those who are by nature. It won't eliminate the possibility of a speculative settlement. Neither will any society include the European Union. It has but a clear public, politics, serious people, citizens, institutions, struggle to overcome and to make such phenomena minor, to punish them. Of course, legislation should be offered primarily by two basic institutes, which is that citizens can exercise control and that there is a maximum possibility of changing, replacing those who do not work well, replacing those who are wrong and allowing citizens to do so through instruments, through their representative bodies as easily as possible and clearly over and over again. First of all, the messages from this High House should be sent in that direction. This trail should look for the best solutions in finding a new model in which to go out in the next local, regional elections, how to choose their mayor, how to choose their mayor and their mayor, and so that citizens can choose a person. Apparently, our citizens want to choose today's mayor and mayor's person and should be allowed to do so. The current model in its character with the holder of the list had, as the colleague said, one such indirect, not direct, but indirect position. Of course, it could have been added, it could have been harmonised, because there is always an open question of the relationship between the elected chief, mayor and the representative body. This is what is questionable and what, of course, should be very clearly corrected in the second reading. We need to find a place, Chief. The current chief or president of the council in those municipalities that do not have the commissioner can't play an equal or worse role than the captain who will be elected. You can't see it from this document right now. A whole series of regulations and laws need to be harmonised in order to know what it is to do, so that it is not a ficus, that, of course, it will not be able to do those things that the elected chief must do in his place, because he can have as an opposition representative body, he can have elements that he will not give him that he can implement the policy for which the citizens chose him. Therefore, I see this as a good attempt by both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the CNS, the PGS and all those who speak in a way that changes to electoral legislation should be made. Noting the practice so far that has not been completely negative and it is not good now for the existing law to impose all the negatives that exist in this society, because the law cannot be responsible for it. There are municipalities, cities, counties that are very good, appropriate and in favour of their citizens also operate in this law. Therefore, we are talking about improving something, and habits, ways of understanding politics, as naked fighting for power, regardless of the price, regardless of which bench, from which political options should be condemned. Those occurrences should be condemned by giving them a name and a last name, and the competent authorities should not wait for the call of any parliamentary representative, any body, they should do so according to the function of what they have in the nature and character of their work. And such a climate should be created, such messages should go because our citizens do not go to the elections for two reasons. First, because they don't see themselves, as our people say, don't see their own interest, they don't see the possibility of achieving it, because they all agreed in advance. Of course, such a climate will remove a partially direct source. The second part of the climate to restore trust in institutions. Of course also to the institutions of local and regional self-government, and it will return if, above all, this House that makes laws, which is watchful of laws and which needs its own argument of honesty to implement these laws is guaranteed to be able to be different, more honorable, fairer. Of course, it's not good for a list that gets 10% of the votes against the two lists that get 30% to give them the mayor, mayor and mayor. Of course it's not normal and of course the citizens didn't support it. Of course, such anomalies and the like. It is necessary to remove, but it should not be exaggerated in going out that direct selection, as I said, will solve all the problems that we have within society, within ourselves and that have arisen as a result of the obvious realization that the chair is such a challenge that all the rules of normal conduct of a democratic norm that exists everywhere in the world, and in Croatia it exists, but must not be broken. I believe that further discussion and second reading of this law, with a clear normative emphasis on the role of elected mayor, mayor and mayor with strict tasks, so as not to remain in the shadow of the representative authority, so that the competences of the various political advances would not conflict, so that the citizens who chose the mayor would not also say for a year, so well what this is now, we chose the mayor, and the matter did not work again. Therefore, let us give ourselves time, there is plenty of time to the next regular elections and in that time we can all agree, come to a consensus and I think the message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be very good to reach a consensus in relation to local and regional and regional elections. Why? Because, of course, he would probably give the strength to bring the electoral law for the Croatian Parliament into a framework, in such an environment, to be the result of consensus and to be the result of knowing what was good we leave behind, which was wrong to change, but let's not call the law over and over again for what we are not ready to remove regardless of where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42947	Thank you very much. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42948	Your Honor, Mr. President. I think he's a respected colleague and he's discovered everything that's happening to us. He said the goal of conversion was to follow wealth for all Croatian residents. True, a fortune followed by 1%, and that 1% now changes the election results. This 1% does not buy councilmen, it also buys state funds and there is the key to the problem in Croatia. He has nothing to give 250 thousand euros when he knows he gets a second day of a million euros. This is the problem in Croatia, and we need to restore the trust of the people in politics and politicians, without throwing away the esteemed colleague Kramaric, and then we will help solve all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42949	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42950	My colleague Kovacevic expanded, as he said what I thought. I referred first of all to the electoral law that he is not necessarily the cause of certain poor post-election behaviours, comparing it with the conversion that alone, the act of turning social into private is not and cannot necessarily result in a good situation in the economy, as one parallel between those two options that ultimately end up on the same, which is that without people, without understanding of this process, and this and that is not and there will be no success.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42951	Yes, many have a very exciting view of the concept of the market economy. And the esteemed representative Miroslav Rosic gives up. Okay. Now we're going to a five-minute debate by the clubs that signed up. Respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42952	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Here we have today this bill of law which, according to the IDS, is just another one in a series of laws that are partial solutions that offer our legislation. The prerequisite for any electoral legislation is to regulate the voter lists, and because we do not have a new Law on Election Lists here, or to have them arranged, we see that there is an even greater possibility of manipulation, and we do not think that this issue should be dealt with in part but systematically. We consider the proposed solutions in this law... the choice of mayors, mayors and municipal chiefs quite hasty, given that the said law does not adequately comply with the provisions of the Law on Local (regional) Self-Government, and in particular what this proposal has come to say after not a full month of local elections. The law lays down a direct choice model for mayors, mayors and mayors, without determining which model of direct election of officials is the most appropriate for Croatian political reality. For example, in order to run for mayor of the big city, it is necessary to collect 200 more signatures in addition to proposals from candidates by political parties or voters as eligible candidates for the right of candidacy, while a candidate who receives more than 50% of voters from the total number of voters enrolled in the list of voters of the constituencies. That's why I said at first that it was very important to have the electoral lists that were arranged. It is stated in the context of election accession and interest is necessarily the second round of elections. The bill also states that elections for mayors, mayors and mayors are held at the same time, means on the same day with elections for members of the representative bodies of the local (regional) self-government units, so the question of the same rationality of the procedure is rightly raised, i.e. two electoral committees and two election committees. In order for the draft law to be implemented, it is necessary to plan already, i.e. to lay down the wording and addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, in which the following will be established in relation to direct elections: the position of the directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor and their authority, i.e. the executive body, according to the representative body. Alignment of powers of former chieftains to the representative body or directly elected officials, impeachment of the directly elected official and decision-making procedure for disbanding the representative body and the status and authority of the deputy mayor, mayor and mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42953	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS-DC-LS club, respected representative and vice president Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42954	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proposal... the first week after a long break and a hot summer from Liberia to TLM we discussed. [[Because of the announcement, you don't understand.]] We discussed the election, so we dealt with ourselves. We studied how to come to power, how to survive in power, were accused on one hand and on the other, who gave more, who was more honest, so the sums went up to 200 thousand euros dizzy and the facts weren't being checked, that the public was alarmed, so collective responsibility came in handy. So let us still wonder what the average voter will conclude after this week's debate. They may again wonder why they will go to elections, if they are traded after elections, and are traded or if money or supervisory committees are really paid, then what is the real profit of those who can get that money out. As a consequence of the unclear laws, we have abstinence. Too few citizens will go to the polls, the results will be worse, but we can also ask on behalf of which local officials make the decisions. These were objections, of course, there is also a good side to the adoption of these laws and certain benefits, and perhaps there will be stronger ones within party democracy. Then the personalisation of the elections, the citizens, wherever they were able, chose by the future law, chose persons rather than parties. These laws could also cause the suspension of the hunt for councilors or at least a temporary stalemate in trade, while 76% of them have so far said they are actually for the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors that they want to know who they choose. Of course there are irregularities, laws should and can be repaired and amended, but what we must do until the final law is passed should be considered a map of Croatia and see if there are really this many cities, municipalities and counties and this large non-functional administration. Each of us in our county will be able to list at least one municipality that has such a budget to finance anything more than the salary of the Commissioner, the secretary, and I do not know of any other member who is watering the ficus. But these are politically unpopular measures. Maybe just two years before the election should take such measures. It is then necessary to determine and limit the amount of donations or even total expenditure. Certainly to supplement the provisions on transparency of the funds invested in the promotion, perhaps even limit them. And here is after the debate that lasted a week for a law that will be valid for four years and open number of issues, the most open thing that we are all sensitive to is the actual decentralisation which is fiscal decentralisation and before the final law is passed I suggest we deal with the map of Croatia, see if we really need to remain all of these municipalities, cities and counties, how much they cost and what real fiscal decentralisation would look like if Croatia were to develop evenly and evenly, that it is not the centre of Zagreb alone. Who can say that everything is if it is the seat of the entire government in Zagreb, that is why the province is Split, Zadar, Bjelovar or some other city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42955	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, Club of HNS-PGS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42956	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues are convinced, on either side of the law, that he was not responding to something that was inappropriate, bad, criminal, or that I didn't know how it had already happened in these elections. The aim is to create such a system of local self-government with which citizens will be satisfied and in which the interests of citizens and influence can be achieved, their will in the best and most direct way. I mean, it's not the first time, now we're surprised at what kind of situation it was after the election, it's not the first time. Shopping was before, shopping was in all our choices. Well, let's face it, we know examples, we know the situation. This time it's really dressed up to the height behind which it's obviously followed by change. That's why I think it's still good to talk about it right now. Of course, I also accept the suggestions that counterpart Adlesic said should change other things in local self-government in Croatia. Not only this Electoral Law, the electoral law itself doesn't mean God knows what. But it's good to talk about it now, and if that dust needs to be lifted, let's pick it up now. Not before the elections, because before the elections, it'll make us a situation where we won't know how to deal with it properly. The Croatian People's Party considered it mandatory and serious to regulate all local elections matter at once. That's exactly why we suggested the law we talked about yesterday. It writes our proposal, which is the interrelationship between the directly elected head and council, i.e. the County Assembly. There writes our proposal in which, by technique and model, the head of local self-government can be replaced without the obligation to have six months and more legal penalties, which is, of course, insane. There are interrelationships and situations that will take place after the next local elections. Of course, this is not the subject of a discussion that could end in neither 1, nor 2, nor in 3 days, and it is good that this Law comes in the first reading. It is also good that yesterday's law is in the first reading, I hope that there will be another reading and that we will have time to discuss the whole situation again in an appropriate way. In fact, we are convinced that only such a round solution guarantees full will in the background, that things really change. If the law remains at the declarative level, and I think the law proposed by the Government, having in mind everything that should be in the background at the declarative level. Today, we do not know what the Government is thinking about what will happen in the relations between the mayor and his council of mayors and his assembly after the election. Today, we do not know what the government thinks about how to replace this man who does not do his job well. The mechanism is indicated in the Government's proposal, there's a replacement, but what we don't know. We think it's correct, at the same time, to launch an idea of choice and launch a way of doing things later. We absolutely accept the proposal for direct elections for local committees. I think it's a great idea, a good idea, and of course it's up to what we're talking about today because it's logical if we directly choose the head of local self-government to choose those people in the smallest units of local self-government directly, and we don't choose over the party lists, which, of course, is inappropriate. I would like to point out once again that fiscal decentralisation is what needs to be discussed and what we need to devote the most time to. And also the sequence of laws, we gave in the procedure of the Law on the List of Voters, did not go to another reading. It is still the basis for what we are talking about today to be implemented in a law and a smart and fair way. We have absolute confidence in voters. That's why we're proposing a strong mayor. We think voters know what they're doing. In all the elections, they showed they knew what they were doing and punished those who had done something to them in the previous term or failed to do something they had promised. It concerns both sides of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42957	Yeah, buddy, that's right, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42958	Anyway...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42959	...you're fine in red.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42960	Thank you, Mr. President. I think this way of elections will restore confidence in Croatian politics and restore citizens to politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42961	Thank you very much. The president of the Croatian Democratic Union's club, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42962	Mr President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request and ask for a 20-minute recess so that the Croatian Democratic Community can determine on the attacks and the difficult qualifications that individual representatives have said about the Croatian Democratic Community as a criminal organisation, all in connection with Article 37(2) and Article 214 of paragraphs 5 and 6. Rules of Procedure. And this is especially the first article to discuss the work of the Parliament. So I ask you to set a break so that we can hold the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42963	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42964	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I am also looking for a shorter break so that we can determine what was said in the assembly or outside of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42965	Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42966	I'm more interested in whether today, Mr. President, will be on the agenda of the holiday law, the memorials or...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42967	Now the question is, it's a colleague's break. You're...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42968	Yes, I understand and give us a break as well...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42969	You guys taking a break too? Okay. Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42970	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Minority Club, I suggest that the colleagues who requested a break take advantage of that break when the break will normally be at 13:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42971	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42972	Mr. President, please, therefore, I suggest on behalf of the HSP Club that if we can finish this debate that should only take another 5 minutes and that there should be a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42973	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure, the moment the club asks for a break, I have to make a spot for it. I can't wait to discuss it. Mr. Kramaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42974	I want a break so we can show ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42975	What? ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know you're bound by the Rules of Procedure, and I'm more of an appeal to the HDZ Club. There's no point in breaking up 20 minutes, initiating another debate completely, and then in order for our club to express its position that lasts five minutes after two hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42977	There's four more clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42978	All the other debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42979	There's four more clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42980	So please, if it's possible that the proposal he made, which the clubs put out to be after five minutes. It's up to them, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42981	It's not up to them, but when they ask, they can't expose with it. When the clubs ask, I'm obliged to take a break right away. I can't have them conditional on any discussion. I'm setting a break until 13 o'clock. 13 hours. 13 hours of follow-up. I would like the President of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community of Vice-President Luka Bebić to present the position of the Croatian Democratic Union's Representatives' Club in the 5-minute presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42983	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. I asked for a meeting of the Club and as I said because of inappropriate offensive and difficult qualifications towards the strongest Croatian party, the Croatian Democratic Community in this Parliament, which has had its way since the founding of 89 to today and which fellow representatives have called a criminal organisation. It is likely that in the history of the Croatian Parliament there was hardly such disqualification and qualifications of one parliamentary party, especially one that fought for independence, the organisation of our entire national resistance and victory in the Homeland War, not only that fellow MPs are thus qualified. I therefore ask that, on the basis of Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2 as well as in conjunction with Article 214(4) of the Rules of Procedure, to convene a session of the Presidency of the Assembly, extended with the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives to discuss this, and to try to draw such conclusions that will ensure normal and democratic work and communication between the Croatian parties, which may be opposed politically but which no one has the right to qualify as one representative did in the Assembly, and the other and the little reserve that he showed first, somewhere else, said that he claims and said that the Croatian Democratic community is a criminal organisation. Although what is said outside the assembly bench shouldn't be too much here, but as it happened again, that's what we asked the club's session to declare the presidency, the extended Bureau of Parliament. Mr. Kapraljevic said what he said, I will not qualify him, although if he calls me a member of a criminal organisation, which is confirmed by my colleague Marasovic, I would ask only one dilemma whether the Croatian People's Party is behind those statements, we ask that it be clearly and loudly fenced and condemned by such qualifications, and as regards Mr. Marasovic, I would say since he called us individually and jointly members of the criminal organisation, I am not sure that he said so in a state where he regularly or said in the early mornings when he might not be in such a state. Is that said in Trnjanca or somewhere else? If you tell me I'm a member of a criminal organization, I guess I can say you're a notorious drunk. And I tell you that in front of the Croatian public and in front of this Parliament, because you have offended a colleague of all representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and I hope other representatives of other parties in the Croatian Parliament feel the same. In the worst and most primitive way possible. I ask that a clear and loud representative of the Croatian People's Party Club be made known, and I have proposed what I have proposed to the Bureau of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42984	It is precisely the turn of a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, president of the HNS Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42985	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Kovacevic. I immediately say that I accept the proposal of my colleague Bebić to discuss this at a session of the presidency extended with the club presidents because everything else to discuss here in the Parliament and if this were not a point of the agenda and a debate on everything opened, there would be no desire for things to end but only one political game. So, I accept your proposal, and I will be happy to participate in that Bureau session when we discuss it. However, I must tell you this that the reason and reason you made the claim is that it is about qualifications and claims as a cause for this. I have looked at the phonogram again and there has been no claim and no qualifications, and we will agree on this through more detailed phonograms and writings at the Bureau session, as far as the statement outside the Parliament is concerned, that you will agree with me that the debate is going where it is. Because she wasn't in this Assembly, because then I'd have to ask and withdraw the debate about some kind of medical diagnosis that yesterday at a press conference was given to some of the colleagues from my Club of Representatives about it doesn't come to mind that we're dealing with it. So, I suggest the presidency sits down, determines the attitudes, and then we'll see what happens next.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42986	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42987	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, I agree. The qualification of Mr. Kapraljevic was inappropriate, perhaps even some exhibitionism attempt to draw attention to itself. It is said in the case of Liburnia that I will only say two three sentences in the case of Liburnia, but for the sake of this, we can label ourselves, we can be offended, we can even get planted, but I don't think Mr. Bebic should be over-exaggerated in all of this. I want to say something else because this discussion or this whole incident was Liburnia. Various administrations of Lebanon do not care who set them up, they sold 44 buildings for 41.44m euros, which did not stabilise business. From 2000 to 2004 it was sold for 16m euros in buildings up to 2000 for 25m euros. The administrations are as full as a bat. However, I deliberately took this opportunity without provoking to say that there is a small privatisation in Liburnia and that gentlemen should stop it. The government is right if it stops that small privatisation, it in some way reacts to the pressure on Lovran municipality, there is SDP that they stop what they're selling, maybe to support the privatisation of Liburnia as a whole because if you can sell then we can. However, this transaction should be stopped as should this large transaction which was in operation or tried nine months or two days ago. That's why I wanted to report that the dignity of this house is working, and we can label ourselves, but let's not go too far, because that's why we're destroying the credibility of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42988	And distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić, Club of Representatives. Please, have you changed? Possibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42989	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Our DC HSLS LS club believes that such qualifications as we had heard yesterday and the day before yesterday in the Croatian Parliament that a cultural and tolerance conversation and communication between parliamentary representatives and political parties has been crossed, and we hold that such words and qualifications have no place in the Croatian Assembly nor can they be justified. Whether something else has been done or not, no arguments have been made in terms of confirmation of that qualification and we hold that colleagues from the Croatian People's Party should apologize to the Croatian Democratic Community as much as possible to the Croatian public, because a large number of Croatian voters voted for this party, this is also an insult to them. If we continue to do so and work and I believe that we will reduce the integrity of the parliamentary representative in the eyes of the Croatian public by at least another 50%. So let's put down the ball and try to respect each other this is a place of cultural and tolerance dialogue, not slander and defamation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42990	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Some time ago, all the political parliamentary parties reached a consensus in the Croatian Parliament, at meetings of the extended Croatian Assembly Presidency, the representatives' clubs, that we would have our match, the political match and the opposition, that all political parties would lead within the limits of dignity, means fighting arguments, and that everyone swore and everyone accepted it, all parties, all MPs. We now have the first time of this agreement and the agreement of all political parties yesterday but we have for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament that one representative, Antun Kapraljevic, has allowed such ones even if the conditional assessments according to which he expressed his view that the Croatian Democratic Community should have declared it a criminal organisation and banned it from working. Is there in our collective memory in the Croatian Parliament that any representative has ever dared any political party. The parties received different qualifications in the political struggle, called different names, that was but that someone had dared one political party. This is not about what is called the Croatian Democratic Union. If any political parliamentary party involved in the work of this Parliament had been called even unparliamentary that as a whole it had been called a criminal organisation, a criminal gang, so all its members, all its officials, through all this time since the party exists, should all be subject to criminal proceedings. She should be banned because she acts counter-constitutional, because she's a criminal association. It is indeed a precedent that no one from any party can say to another party in the Croatian Parliament. Just as the second spokesman, according to the news report, Jaksa Marasovic, says: "To me, HDZ is just like my party friend from the Antun Kapraljevic's parliamentary bench, HDZ, a criminal organisation." How there can be relations between parliamentary parties in which MPs of one parliamentary party will call the other general party representatives all out of order criminals, members of the criminal association, gangs, organisations. I will invite next week and the extended presidency of the Assembly with the presidents of all clubs to return one democratic behaviour and that those who express such qualifications become aware that they are doing a bear service to themselves and to their party but also to the entire Croatian Assembly and political life. Let us not alone contribute to the reputation and dignity of the highest legislative and representative body of the Croatian Assembly with such public statements, to obtain an assessment that does not deserve this institution, which is not deserved by the Croatian Parliament and therefore we will have to do so most decisively in one consensus agreement and cut to avoid and prevent more such situations. We're moving on to a five-minute debate. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. I mean, he quit. Okay. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42992	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Well, here's a few sentences now, although also after this break and under the impression of all this, I'm going to have to say a few sentences at first and all of this, and unfortunately I'm going to have to say that this is all about this election law, so I'm going to say everything else. We can pass any laws, and unfortunately if we don't be correct and introduce each other, I would say a little different way of acting, and I would say general qualifications, but also from individual qualifications, I think that we will all, unfortunately, without differences in the laws that we are having problems with each other, and there will be every other case that we want to admit to all of us who are in a certain way in a policy of disqualification, which brings us to a situation where we have to ask ourselves where there is dignity, whether the politician here in the Croatian Parliament, whether those councillors in some county where there are almost physical accounts, whether where they happen in cities and municipalities I would say some unfortunately trade where we have to, and the rest of the state bodies, in some way, participate. All of this, I would say, is a certain subject and some future debates, a future agreement, and if we can agree on a certain sense of purpose to each other and then such legislative initiatives will certainly be welcome. I'll try to say that surely this bill is welcome. I think we all agreed and this debate in the first reading will contribute to one particular drive where we all stood up together. What I've been trying to say in one replica is something that's happening to us with some models. We are trying a model that is new, a model that should be applied automatically in one whole area without having certain experiences. That's what happens to us I'd say in a series of laws. It's not just this bill of elections in that section that's specific, but many times without having any projections, without in any way being detailed, maybe, let's not take offense, consult with the profession, consult in that part, and see which model is actually the most suitable for us, so here we try it on a little narrow territory and try and see what its results are. Perhaps I should just say what I think must be one of the biggest problems in this part and which needs to be solved, given that a series of laws and must be changed in that part and this relationship between the executive authority i.e. the elected mayor, mayor and mayor with representative authority. We need to know that in the mentality of our people will always be to commit themselves so that if they chose the head of the executive authority from one party supported by one party then the representative power would most likely be a little bit of the other that always our people summed it up in a certain way. And then, of course, I'd say one questionable position if we stayed on that 50-dollar proposal. But surely if we don't define exactly how these relationships have to be because it wouldn't be good to have a certain paralysis of the overall system and I think we're going to have to deal with each other's experiences here, define in the accuracy of that particular thing. So I would say if there was any possibility and you would appeal there and perhaps see how it might work in several municipalities and perhaps before the general whole of Croatia. If by that time we will be able to change and adapt the other legislation because we are aware that this is only one part of that total legislation. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party certainly supports such a proposal. I hope that from the overall debate here all these proposals will be adopted. And in the end, I appeal again that we all hold together to the dignity and this House but that we all try together on one thing I would say to the general consensual agreement to restore the reputation of all of us who are in this business. With all these things happening to us, we're going to bring ourselves and I'd say this job where we're on low branches, and then we'll all wonder why it happened to each other, wondering why it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42993	Thank you very much. HDZ Club. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42994	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I would like to streamline on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that after this debate I think we can conclude that the vast majority of MPs in this assembly supported the introduction of an election model for the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors. The question was raised here and what the average voter would say after a week of debate in this assembly that we were concerned about how to stay in power and so on and I think on the contrary that this week we discussed very important things for Croatian voters and that is exactly how to regulate Croatian electoral legislation starting with the State Election Commission. That we discussed how to decentralisation this country first in the transfer of powers, and I am sure and believe that we will discuss in this House and fiscal decentralisation which can then only guarantee real, real decentralisation of powers. The Croatian club, the Croatian Democratic Community, supports the adoption of this law because we believe it increases the democratic standards of local self-government. During this debate, it seems to me that we have not heard serious objections to the introduction of a direct election of leaders in local self-government. We've heard fears, and that's true. He's got them. We have heard fears that no relationship between the directly selected bodies has been arranged. If their cohabitation had not been arranged, the responsibility of the directly elected mayor had not been arranged, but we hold that as I have already said this government is serious, that this government has a concept and that it will propose all the accompanying laws that will clearly and decadently determine this irrelevant disputed matter. In view of the view of all the public professionally, given the polls among citizens, given the views of parliamentary parties, I believe that we are obliged to support this law, that we are obliged to forward it to another reading. And I certainly believe that the government will have time to propose a final text that will clearly shape the will, the political will to introduce a direct choice of mayor. That he would consult all the comments made in the debate. That he will also consult the text of the PGS bill. That they will consult the US AIDS expert assessment of this, this, this law. That they will consult the public stands that have been held and that we will have a quality and clear final text in front of us that we will be able to guarantee to voters that indeed for those who voted in the majority that they will act as chiefs in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42995	Thank you. And respected representative Furio Radin on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42996	Mr. President, dear colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club finds it a little strange that a bill on, which treats the matter of the elections, comes right after the election. Not because it's not good. It's actually very good to start talking about it away, not near choices, but because it's unusual. I don't know. It may be an exception this time, but we believe that we will see more laws, more bill proposals in these four years, and that it is only one of the first attempts to take care of that matter, and that is why we believe that it is pragmatic, and not principled reasons, will ultimately decide what the elections will be because it has always been, and so is always in all parliaments. If, however, we want to enter a moment into matter with one conclusion, we can say in the measure of things that this law, these laws must, for sure, be discussed on these laws together with discussions on laws that treat representative bodies, the choice of representative bodies, and thus agree with Mr Pankretic for the simple reason that this relationship is really the most important thing in all of this. If we will have representative bodies that will be, we will belong to one political option and the mayor or mayor of another political option that will lead safely to stagnation, to the paralysis of the system. Therefore, the proposal is that in some ways the representative body follows fate, followed by the fate of the mayor's election, or the mayor's, or the mayor's, who goes on their own behalf. Of course, there are certain parties behind them, but that their percentage in some way determines the percentage of the list that will then be drawn up by the representative body. There are cases like this. There are cases in several countries such that simply, simply the mayor, the mayor or president of the region already, their percentage actually determines many times, and with certain bonuses determines the percentage of the representative bodies. And that's how stability is achieved, the stability of power. Finally, we want to say that this law should be, these laws should be discussed together with the laws that determine the electorate, which regulate the issue of voter lists. Today nationality actually has certain consequences as we can see. We don't know when an individual, when an individual becomes part of the voter's list, when he becomes, when he starts voting, when he gets voting rights, we don't know how his nationality is determined on the voter's list. We don't know that. All we know is he's not the one to be asked. And that's the only thing that should be relevant. Someone who's 18 years old suddenly in, becomes part of a voter list with a certain nationality. It produces consequences, but who determines his nationality we don't know. And I think that should be his right and the right of the national minorities and the right of this Parliament to know how this is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42997	Thank you very much. I beg your pardon? State Secretary Antun Palaric for the final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42998	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the debate on the government's Proposal for a Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors of Zagreb, Mayors and Municipal Commissioners and a proposal for appropriate HNS laws, which also raised the issue of a wide debate on local self-government in Croatia. In these two days, the debate tried to impose the thesis that local self-government has a lot of problems and on several individual examples to challenge all the achievements that we have achieved in local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is a democratic country. In it, all institutions operate within the framework of legal powers, and this is recognised by the world, and why, on several individual occasions, question it? When we look at the number of units of local self-government, when we look at what progress has been made throughout Croatia to establish a new model of local self-government since '93. Then all the problems in this context seem small, but always needs to go forward, the system should be upgraded and the Croatian government, as promised, immediately proposed a package of laws that are actually starting an election reform. It has happened to us over the past year that certain circles have wanted to propose amendments to the law since the presidential campaign began, for example, amending the Law on the election of the President of the Republic after the vote was called. We believe that the right time to open the debate on electoral legislation is far from the first next elections, and therefore we believe that this government move, while it fulfils its promises from the work programme, is also a democratic step. That it creates enough space for the laws to be thoroughly debated, that the introduction of this model is achieved preferably by consensus in the Croatian Assembly and that by opening political debates, as well as by professionals who are going to be held, my office participates in them and we participate in various professional and scientific meetings and we read all possible literature, that we will find the best model for Croatia from world experiences, but also from Croatian reality. This is basically technical law. Those who say it's technical, it's really technical. He spoke of elections, election conditions, election procedures, protection of election rights and nothing else. This law certainly cannot regulate the relationship between representative and executive bodies in a local self-government unit or a regional self-government unit and we are working on it. We will, of course far before the application of this law begins, if the concept of direct choice of mayor is supported we will offer from the Government a solution to these relations to the Croatian Parliament. But we also have to solve the fate of the headship, the way in which we choose power, with so many times the highlighted problem of the possible relationship between the representative and the executive body, but without anyone offering any possible solutions, and solve it. But, gentlemen, MPs, we need to solve another very important thing that no one here has spoken about, and that is the responsibility of the state for implementing the law and ensuring an effective model of state control over law enforcement in local self-government units. We now have powers over representative bodies. The government is using them all and with the comfort of developing local self-government. We rarely applied the strictest measure, which is the disbanding of the representative body. We will also have to arrange a model of supervision on the legality of the work of the directly elected mayor. We are aware that against any decision by the central authorities, we must ensure judicial protection and, to detail, we will develop conditions for judicial protection and very short deadlines to achieve that protection as soon as possible. I thank all those who supported the model of the direct isor of the mayor. I thank all those who have warned of possible problematic proposals in this law and who have made useful suggestions and suggestions that will certainly make the final bill better. We will, after voting in this House, when this law is supported, which I deeply believe, because the majority opinion was that it was going to change the model to approach the detailed analysis of everything given by further professional and political discussions on these topics and offer the Croatian Assembly an even better, even more quality text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u42999	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar, who is proposing the second proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u43000	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues allow me to thank all those who, in the debate on our bill, have pointed to some ambiguities, dilemmas, and ask us questions, because this has all helped us to see that we have failed, therefore, to resolve or to make such a bill that has resolved all possible dilemmas. And it was extremely useful to listen and follow, because when we were preparing the law, we had a dilemma and we were looking for the simplest solutions on the one hand, and on the other hand, the clearest, most enforceable and purest. However, unlike Mr. Secretary of State, I am not sure that in the debate, the majority model of the choice of leaders in local self-government is as supported as he felt, because there were many reserves and arguments made that would be about to bring down that it is not yet time, not even words, though. But neither was this experience, so after these local elections, obviously it wasn't enough for us to get those political courages back on track. We opened this topic in the Croatian Parliament both in 2001 and 2003 and in 2004 and in 2005, so today. And we will open this topic for so long until the Council introduces direct elections in local self-government for leaders and the majority electoral model. And very importantly, when the government comes to you with a second reading with the Electoral Law and possibly a new Law on Local Self-Government, it will not be a package of laws that will allow for direct elections and even less a set of laws that would allow for a new step in decentralisation. Let's not fool ourselves that it's just these two laws. I remind again, in order to make and implement such legal solutions as are contained in both the Government's proposal and in our proposal, we must finally pass a new Law on residence, which I believe, after the debate is concluded, will still come to a vote, it is still a debt. We had him at the hearing, necessary and necessary because of the new Law on the List of Voters. So it's the second law. The third law, the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government, which was before the elections, failed to vote, and there will be a need, before the next elections, obviously, intervention and in it or perhaps a whole new law, and then the Law on Elections, and then the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, is then the Law on financing of Local and Regional Self-Government. It is a law package in the first phase, and if we are going to discuss this package of laws in the second reading or third reading at the same session, then it will probably be less dilemma that this picture, the mosaic of direct elections, will be clearer to us, to make it clear to us both the relationship and the authority of the leaders and the representative body and clearer supervision of the legality that both under the Government's proposal and the current law and our own state. It's the third fuse over the ones some called the local sheriffs. And then after that, it will be necessary to amend 34 laws that give different areas to jurisdiction or representative bodies in the county, municipality and city or executive body. So, we can't say that the following elections will be conducted by direct model, by the majority system, that we will abolish the headships as an executive body in local self-government, not to change the Law on the Communist Economy, the Law on Preschool Education, the Law on Primary Schools, the Law on Roads, because the team, the Health Protection Act, because these laws are prescribed by the County Assembly, which is decided by the county headship. Whether the state will leave what is now in the jurisdiction of the headship to the executive authority who will then be the mayor or in fear of self-will will transfer it from the executive to the representative body, we do not know it, but it is resolved not by these laws but by those 34 laws on areas and only when we agree with such a concept of the establishment of local self-government we can call and conduct elections and say that the days of the establishment of the new local self-government can work because we have changed all the laws. I warn that it is a very serious business, and it is good that we have opened this topic now after the elections so that we do not come to the next elections and postpone everything with the justification that we do not have the time, but I also ask Mr. Secretary of State that, in the preparation of these basic six laws, we must fight within the Government's resolutions that the other laws are being prepared in parallel with them and that we know whether the government will decide that the powers that have so far been given to the city, county or municipal headship remain the head of the town or will move to the representative or will give something to the executive, therefore to the head of the man who has been elected, and then we will get the answer to the question and what powers such leaders receive because we do not determine to anyone, nor to the representative body or to the head, because they are not the laws which determine powers, these 34 laws of the various social sectors, public enterprises, institutions, local administration, public administration, public administration, public administration, public administration, as you will do. I want to believe that, and in the debate, several MPs from the ruling majority of the several solutions in our bill have supported and considered them a good solution indeed. The first reading is both law and law, I invite you and please let both laws go into the second reading, and we may come together to some solutions and mergers of electoral procedure both for leaders and representative body into one law which I think would be far more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-22-0.u43001	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the proposal for a law on the election of mayors, mayors of Zagreb, mayors and municipal mayors. Representative Zvonimir Mršić suggested a conclusion that reads: About the bill on the election of mayors, mayors of the city of Zagreb and municipal chiefs, a previous debate was held. The opinion, comments and proposals will be made, presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the proposal for a conclusion. So the proposal for the conclusion of Mršić's representative is that a previous debate has been carried out on this bill. I'm putting it to the vote. Please, let's get involved first. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. You can vote. The result? 30 for closure, 4 abstentions, 67 against. The proposal for a conclusion did not receive the required majority.
