ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38597	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, a procedure for the adoption of the Decision of the Croatian Parliament on the maintenance of military exercises, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia during 2005. Article 6(2), second subparagraph, second subparagraph The Law on Defence in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament shall put a decision on the exit or operation of the Armed Forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the entry or operation of the Armed Forces of other States on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the framework of military exercises, except for the exit, or entry of the Armed Forces within the framework of international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed them on the basis of international contracts and in order to provide humanitarian assistance. Participation in bilateral and multilateral military exercises, particularly with NATO members and the Partnership for Peace, is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and its involvement in Euro-Atlantic organisations and acquired knowledge and experience and for its active participation in the peace process in the wider international community. Participation in military exercises is listed in the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy as one of the ways in which the Republic of Croatia is legalised as a responsible member of the international community who is ready to take over its part of the global security burden. In addition, participation in military exercises is one of the undertaken partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of the implementation of the NATO accession process through entry into the membership action plan. ... Process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since this case is about bilateral military exercises involving members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in multilateral military exercises outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 6(2), subparagraph 6. The law on defence as I have already pointed out there is a legal obligation to make a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Bilateral military exercises are a process which, depending on the category of military exercises, is planned long and the final structure of the composition exercise and only the time of the preparatory action is determined by the final planning conferences. The government referred to the Croatian Parliament and the proposal for a decision on the maintenance of these bilateral military exercises in the meantime with an international partner of the United States who are hosting the exercise that is scheduled to be held in Minnesota, it was agreed that the exercise would take place in the PVP Partnership for Peace programme, meaning within the framework of an international security and defence organisation as before the steps of Croatia's accession to NATO in 2000, which Croatia also ratified the international agreement on the status of forces in the Parliament in 2002. The Croatian Government shall, on the election proposal of the Decision, amend it so that, in the final proposal for a decision referred to in paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of the first indent, it is deleted because the international military exercise in Minnesota, according to the classification of the host country, would be classified as a PWP exercise, and therefore, according to those legal and constitutional provisions, it is not necessary for the Croatian Parliament to decide but can be referred to on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Commander. Something about other military exercises we predicted. According to this plan, members of the Croatian Armed Forces would participate in a military exercise in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is a bilateral military exercise, bilateral flying in order to train flight procedures towards NATO standards. The exercise is planned for late September 2005 in the area of airspace above Pula airport. The aim of the exercise is to train crews to monitor and protect airspace and to search and rescue tasks. The composition of the participants in the exercise will be confirmed at the final planning conference, the exercise is planned as part of bilateral cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, the planned funds for this exercise amounting to 850 thousand kuna and are provided in the entry of the Ministry of Defence in the state budget. The multilateral military exercises that members of the Croatian Armed Forces should participate outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia are multilateral military exercises Adriatic... 05, during July 2005 in the area of the Republic of Albania. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The military exercise is multilateral between the United States Armed Forces and the countries signatories of the Adriatic Charter. The aim of the exercise is to improve NATO's operational interoperability. Possible participants in the exercise are one lifeguard, a medical team, a set of underwater divers, a group of... Command. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The exact number of participants and the number of equipment will be established in the final exercise plan conference. This exercise was planned as part of bilateral cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the United States and the Adriatic Charter countries. The exercise will take place in Albania, covering participation in three branches of the Armed Forces, the planned funds amounting to 588 thousand kuna and will be provided for planned items of the Ministry of Defence in the state budget for military exercises. The Republic of Croatia also has the possibility of returning the work of spent funds from the Warsaw Initiative fund. A multilateral military exercise in the territory of the Republic of Georgia during September 2005. The exercise is multilateral in the spirit of our goal and NATO accession. The aim of the exercise is to train procedures using help with the chemical accident. During the planned conference, the exact number of participants will be determined, the financial resources will be provided in the budget of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia by having the possibility of returning part of the funds spent from... Warsaw Initiatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the last proposed military exercise, the multilateral military exercise... 05 was planned during October 2005 in the Ukraine area in this military exercise our platoon... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for decontamination, he would participate in an international exercise in Ukraine in 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is primarily feeling the need to have less, more efficient and effective armed forces, by adopting its strategic defence review and through which we work as a reform of the Croatian defence and security system. We want to achieve greater quality for spending less financial resources as much as possible but a necessary prerequisite for achieving this process of efficiency, efficiency and interoperability is to maintain international military exercises with members of other armed forces both in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, ladies, in addition, at this time Croatia is also an active participant and takes over the role of establishing international peace and security. At this moment outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia is currently 85 members of the Croatian Armed Forces in 7 international peacekeeping missions under the law and the Constitution of decisions made. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, please support this amended decision on international military exercises in order to further ensure interoperability, training of the Croatian Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38598	Thank you very much, Minister. I also received a decision from the Pedestrians of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, on the basis of Articles 7, 3 and 99, paragraph 1. The Constitution shall take a decision on the proposal of the Defence Minister on the deployment of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the United States for training under the Partnership for Peace. The decision reads: "The training in the framework of the Partnership for Peace, which will take place from 10 June to 27 June 2005 at the Camp Ripley Training Centre, Minnesota, United States of America, is directed by 36 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38599	So does the minister, and the president mistakenly interprets that there is no need for the Parliament's consent. So that's the wrong quote I want to correct. On the contrary. The Parliament's consent is required. To the side that the government wants to correct this indignity by its amendment. The army of gentlemen is not a group of scouts who go camping on Whitelight. It is a serious institution that has to comply with the strict rules of the Constitution or the law. The parliament must make a decision and until this decision is made, until it is published in the National Journal, the ministry's job is to keep soldiers in the Republic of Croatia. After that, they can also be addressed to the United States or anywhere else where the Assembly decides. However, that I am absolutely right to bear witness to exactly the reasons, the objectives, the adoption of this Decision where it is literally said that, in this case, bilateral military exercises, no organisations involving members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in multilateral military exercises outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 6(2), subparagraph 6. There is a legal obligation to make decisions, a decision by the Croatian Parliament to achieve the above-mentioned objectives of the Republic of Croatia. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38600	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38601	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the esteemed defence minister that this exercise, which is planned as a bilateral military exercise with, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, means the pedestrian water and unit of the Minnesota National Guard, is suddenly becoming a military exercise within the framework of or training as part of a partnership for peace, because we only know what is the formation of the armed forces of the United States and what is the role of the National Guard. So this only solves her, the one yesterday's doubt, and I'm glad that the president of the state, as well as the Parliament and everyone that we've all reacted in the right way. It may react that way, but this is about the National Guard. It cannot therefore be part of a partnership for peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38602	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the Committee on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security want? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38603	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Participation in bilateral and multilateral military exercises, as has been said, is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and its involvement in Euro-Atlantic integration and organisation, and knowledge and experience gained is also important for its active participation in the peace process in the wider international community. Participation in these peace operations is also important for the promotion of the Republic of Croatia on a wider international stage, and this is also particularly important in the fight against global terrorism which the Republic of Croatia has been contributing for years to its concrete, full contribution. It has been said that participation in military exercises is also listed in the National Security and Defence Strategy and is one of the ways in which the Republic of Croatia is legitimateised as a responsible member of the International Community who is willing to take over its part of the global security burden. In addition, participation in military exercises is one of the partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO accession procedures through entry into the so-called "Membership Action" plan process. In this particular case, we are talking about bilateral exercise, military participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States on the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in multilateral military exercises outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to stress here in particular is the importance of these bilateral and multilateral military exercises on the plan to train the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and all those units that must be well prepared in all aspects so that they can participate effectively and at least with the potential risks, participate in important international military operations. Quality training alone is the basis of well-prepared soldiers, officers and officers, well-prepared units and it and only well-prepared and trained training minimises safety risks in these important and difficult jobs that representatives of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia face. The importance of military exercises also contributes to the interoperability of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as a whole with the standard procedures that exist within the NATO alliance. The exercise of these standard operating procedures is most effective and most easily and qualitatively implemented in the context of these international military exercises. It is important not only to know the language but to know all these procedures especially in those difficult situations and risky situations where soldiers can find themselves in the pursuit of their important, responsible and complex tasks. It was quite a pleasure to talk to the commander of the Kabul Multinational Brigade a few days ago who praised the effective work of the water of the Croatian Military Police who has been performing in this difficult and complex space in the security sense quality of all his tasks in the interests of the International Community, in the interest of all the activities that the International Community is taking on the plan of stabilising the situation in Afghanistan, but also of interest to the pride of the Republic of Croatia because the Croatian flag, the Croatian soldier, the Croatian officer participates in quality and efficiency not only on the ground in carrying out his daily operational tasks but also a part of the institutions that command the Kabul multinational brigade and ISAF mission. Croatian staff officers are very responsible, very successful in the most complex tasks, and all this is almost impossible to do without active and quality participation in these military exercises. I said the risk of soldiers depends on the quality of training, joint exercises, quality preparations and, therefore, especially in a situation where the extension of the Croatian military contingent in the ISAF mission in Afghanistan is expected to take place and these exercises are very important quality preparations. What we need to take care of is to try to understand the elemental difference between what is called a military exercise and what is a peace mission or peace operation. There are certainly great differences in every aspect of that security and responsibility that soldiers or states assume. In accordance with all these facts, I would like to emphasise that the HDZ Club will support the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States during 2005 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as part of a bilateral military exercise relating to bilateral flight in order to train flight procedures towards NATO standards. It is an exercise that is very important and one of its components is related to the search and rescue at sea. Secondly, the HDZ Club also supports the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in military exercises outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia as part of the bilateral military exercise of the footing water of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the unit of the Minnesota National Guard to be held these days. I stress that this bilateral cooperation with the Minnesota National Guard has been going on for almost 10 years. I was personally in a position when we signed a joint cooperation agreement between partner states on the part of the United States as a partner country was chosen by Minnesota for various reasons. You may remember that the governor of that state was also a Croat. The HDZ Club further supports the same multilateral military exercise of Adriatic Fiblex during July 2005 in the area of Albania in which the United States and the Member States so-called "US" participate. The Adriatic initiatives US Adriatic charter is an international framework agreement under which the exercise takes place, involving all three branches of the Armed Forces. We further support the multilateral exercise "Recuer", "Makeuer" in September 2005 in the area of the Republic of Georgia relating to chemical accidents. The multilateral military exercise "Joint Assist 05" during October 2005 in the Ukraine area is also important for the preparation of Croatian Army troops. From all that, the HDZ Club gives full support to these exercises. And especially what I want to emphasize and read here is Article 7(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where it stands precisely: "The armed forces can cross the borders of the Republic of Croatia as part of the exercises under international defence organisations", in this case specifically the Partnership for Peace, "which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed on the basis of international contracts and without prior decision of the Croatian Parliament." Military exercises are one thing, military operations are something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38604	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38605	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. And in the opinion of the IDS Club, the Constitution has been decoded. So without a decision from the Croatian Army's Parliament, they cannot leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that is where IDS is called, unlike Mr. Cosic on Article 7(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Now those who call for Article 7(3) forget that bilateral military exercises are in no way an organisation. And finally don't forget ever in the last 10 years, let's put aside what happened from 1992 to 1994, it never happened that any Croatian soldier left the country without a previous parliament decision. We're just at the IDS Club looking for analogy. Finally, what if the soldiers went to Minnesota and the Parliament didn't accept this decision to send troops to a third country? Well, that would be the total indignation of the Republic of Croatia, even though during yesterday we were well baffled. Finally, if it were not for the parliament's decision, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia would not have asked the Croatian Parliament for a decision that I quoted earlier. And I guess that's clear to everyone. It means there is no need for the Parliament's decision, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not refer the decision to the parliamentary procedure and ask the Parliament for a positive opinion. Therefore, in the view of the IDS Club, and in this case, when Minnesota is on Wednesday, Article 7(2) should apply. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I repeat, our soldiers must not leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia before the Parliament discusses it, the decision of the vote and is published in "The People's Journal". We need this decision, gentlemen, for the future's sake. Now it turns out that Parliament's decision is necessary for everything but Minnesota. Oh, come on, gentlemen, just as we're playing this game right now, and I'm saying that that kind of behavior doesn't fit either the government or the president or the Parliament if we make an exception in this case. As far as IDS itself is concerned, and this IDS decision is against it. Not because we are against our soldiers participating together with the Americans in military exercises in Minnesota, Albania, Georgia and Ukraine, but because we are against the Pula Airport being used for such purposes. It should be said immediately that there is no reason to worry that the Pula Airport could turn as some evil intentions in Istria speak to an American air base or that the U.S. air base from Aviana could move to Pula. Those who place these issues know very well that this is not possible, but they clearly use it because of the political moment. If I'm not wrong about the IDS request, we've been supported here by HSP or HSP IDS all one thing, this memorandum of consent between the Republic of Croatia and the United States has entered into another reading, and this specifically means that it hasn't been adopted yet, which, in my court, is good. This act, so this decision de facto is a substitute for the 2005 memorandum. So, we see that Croatian soldiers will now go to Minnesota, America, Albania, Ukraine and Georgia, and that at the end of September it means at the end of the 9th month, at the end of September how dearly, 10 or 15 days or 20 days American planes will use Pula airport. That's what IDS is for. There are those who say that or that you would, for example. The US presence was welcome for a security message, however, in our opinion the Pula Airport is a civilian and finally IDS advocates demilitarisation of the entire southern Istria area. So we're thinking that American planes aren't using Istria, they're sending a negative message. Okay. That's when the season will probably be over, that's for sure important, but we don't think they should fly over the south of Istria. That's what I said to the U.S. Embassy openly. After the army left Umag, and the military gave in to the city, after the army left Pazin and the military also gave in to the city, it is the order that all the facilities that the military did not use in Pula give way to the city of Pula, I repeat not to the county but to the city of Pula. But also with the districts and municipalities of Fažana, Vodnjan, I don't know, the cities of Medulin and Pula define this Brijuni Riviera project because it is the only way for Istria to come to an opportunity to co-determine the space always managed from Vienna, Rome, Belgrade, etc. Finally, if the pension fund is brought back to life as the state shares of that company are suggested, God forbid it is as soon as possible, but before that I just want to say that the County of Istria does not own a single square metre of any agricultural, forest, building so-called. tourism land and that it fought if anything else to give so-called tourism land does not enter the portfolio of tourist companies but remains state property. But let me get back to the point. I'll say it one more time or I'll quote it. Since this case is about bilateral military exercises, etc. in which members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States participate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in multilateral military exercises outside the territory of Croatia, pursuant to Article 6(2), subparagraph 6. There is a legal obligation to make a decision of the Croatian Parliament to achieve the above-mentioned objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, it is said here that this agreement is the way to Euro-Atlantic associations. Now, the way we stand. France said no to the EU Constitution, the Netherlands also, the UK delayed the referendum, Denmark would probably do the same, if they could vote the same would be said the Germans and the Italians. And why is that? It works, because I've already said it, the euro. They open up borders to other people's labour, and they have enough of their own, let alone European red tape, and finally these issues are now suddenly turning into inside political issues. So we have one paradox that labor, it doesn't matter whether it belongs to the right, left is against, capital is for the European Union in the west because they get the market, customs are abolished, taxes are unified, etc. In Croatia, the situation is slightly different. I want to believe that labor is for, but I know that capital is especially that large importing one, against the EU. However, I would also like to say that all the countries in transition, and I am talking about these Euro-Atlantic integrations that this explanation is also talking about, have literally profited from the European Union literally everything, but the fact that there is something going on in the West where obviously some will not. In one word, old Europe is tired of enlargement, which certainly is not positive in the Republic of Croatia. Here I will say once again in this legislative proposal, it is said about Euro-Atlantic integration and my opinion and the opinion of the IDS Club is that Croatia simply has no other future than Euro-Atlantic integration. Why? The alternative is this Balkans, but the British are pushing us there anyway, so that Croatia wouldn't have jumped too quickly from some others in the area, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. and the fact is that whoever was in Serbia knows that Serbia is after Croatia today as much as Croatia is for Austria, Bosnia for Croatia as much as we are for Switzerland. Since this is the case, and the beginning of these negotiations cannot be reached, my proposal is clear to both you and the Government that it still does everything when Euro-Atlantic associations are in the process, so let our soldiers go to America and Ukraine and Moldova and Albania, but in this particular case avoid a pulse airport. So in this particular case, the pulse airport is avoided. So we're against the IDS club that the pulse airport is used for these NATO purposes. Finally, there is no clear fear that Pula could become a NATO base. In Pula, it will certainly not be moved AVIANO, it is insane, but Pula should be demilitarized, not even if it is sometimes twice a year, via NATO to militarize. So once again because of Pula IDS will be against this decision, we are against the clear departure of Croatian soldiers to Iran, but we are for the departure of Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan because this action is part of the international, or United Nations and we can finally not forget that Croatia also received extensive assistance in the early 1990s. We therefore have a duty to participate clearly under the auspices of the United Nations. Earlier, the minister said that outside the Republic of Croatia there are, if I am not mistaken, if I remember 78 soldiers well. But it can only be part of peace operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38606	Thank you. It was probably a lapus when you mentioned the departure of Croatian soldiers to Iran. ... Iran? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38607	Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect quote that he said: "Bilateral military exercises are not organisations". What's important is to point out the following. These bilateral and multilateral exercises are an integral part of international defence organisations based on relevant international agreements, and therefore all the alarm and deception made by Mr Cain does not have its foothold either in the Constitution or in the Defence Act. Given the shortness of time, I'll just point out. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 7(3) and the Law on Defence which it says, I quote: "except for the exit, or the entry of the armed forces within the framework of international defence organisations", an article on defence. Therefore, all that has been said and spoken yesterday and today in the media is not responding to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38608	Honorable representative Ante Markov, club representative of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38609	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia during 2005 is certainly a valid reason to point out the overall position that the Croatian Armed Forces have today, on the international aspects of our obligations and responsibilities, to the goals sought to achieve by strengthening the role of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the contribution of peacekeeping missions abroad reminds me of the most important tasks in the modern world, which is the establishment of peace and peace conservation, reminding that from 48th to today 54 peace-preservation operations under the auspices of the United Nations have been initiated by the Security Council in the past 12 years by as many as 41, and a total of 15 peace-preservation operations under the United Nations are under way. All this speaks of the importance that modern Armed Forces today have with new goals, new tasks, and new responsibilities set before the Armed Forces. Of course, as part of all reforms, as part of the adopted defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the national security strategy and the strengthening of the role of the Armed Forces, the reorganisation and reforms that are under way and implemented within the framework of the Armed Forces that are both different and changing the tasks and objectives of the Armed Forces, but also that society sets different goals before the Armed Forces. And that is why, according to us at the HSS Club, it is important to come out of the obstacle or interference that has often been overcome when this or this topic was discussed, and has tried to bring about participation in peace operations, the maintenance of military exercises of members of the Croatian Armed Forces were those in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or of the partner countries, with possible threats and possible links to the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia anywhere in the world, and it is clear that the issue of Iraq is always being absorbed, and that is the focus of one growing danger and one distinction in terms of a serious understanding of the way in which today's modern world armed forces must be prepared and everything they need to take. For us at the HSS Club this proposal of decision is understandable, we accept it as such, of course we would be more pleased, what counterpart Cain mentioned, that the schedule and dynamics of these exercises, especially those that occur in the area of Pula in terms of air exercises, are happening in some happier period which is not burdened because 9 months is still the time of the tourist season, but we hold that probably the way and content of these exercises should not significantly affect safety, distraction or any events that should talk about the dangers of the most important economic branch, which is tourism. We are also pleased that most of these exercises are happening abroad, that this will be an opportunity within the framework of bilateral and multilateral exercises that will take place, that Croatian Armed Forces have the opportunity to show, prove but to compare themselves with other armed forces because it is evident after some of the experiences that have not been clearly spoken of above all, the Afghan experience has shown that the state of particular individuals, trained waters in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is still something better than what is perceived in the public that the ability of these specially trained waters can thus be shown even by that border that even in measuring them with some more powerful armed forces of other countries can be made dominant. The Afghan experience has also shown that Croatia can compete very successfully with the world industry that has developed in the world as a whole. Therefore, these experiences can build certain foundations, extract some assumptions and say that Croatia, given the complexity of the environment in which it is on the perspectives of these complex environments, should build and develop armed forces and develop them precisely on the principle of efficiency, on the principle of professionality and on the principle of its presence in the world. The presence in the world, clearly within the framework of the peace missions of the United Nations but probably other kinds of challenges that will continue to take place, strengthens the overall reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world but gives very clear answers within the local environment and creates space and some other perspectives that can and must be realized. In this regard, first of all, I think of production that would cover the infrastructure needed by the armed forces, in various segments that have not yet been brought to life but did not have a serious mood to discuss them seriously. For this reason, it is acceptable for us at the HSS Club to strengthen the Armed Forces, the reforms implemented in terms of strengthening those principles that I have stated are fully acceptable and we hold that additional reinforcements, which should be confirmed in the Republic of Croatia's budget, in particular by empowering those segments of the armed forces for which there is a perspective in terms of development, action, as well as transport to the economy and society at all in this moment, I think of the Croatian Navy as a permanent obligation and one of the strategic objectives which is defined in the strategy of national security, and therefore we will always be the ones to support the empowerment, strengthening and creation of a strong armed force of the Republic of Croatia which must dominate in terms of meeting its obligations in the framework of international peacekeeping missions to prove it where it is necessary because it is in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38610	Thank you very much. Representatives' club HSLS, DC, LS's respected representative Zlatko Kramarić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38611	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit that at the HSLS Club, DC, the LS remains a little vague whether our soldiers would have gone to Minnesota yesterday if my colleague Cain hadn't accidentally read the paper in the morning and then looked into the agenda and reacted. It may seem like a joke like this, but when we think about it, then we see what kind of situation we're in. And now the question is why is it that, in fact, why almost everything in our country is becoming an affair, becoming a disgrace becomes a scandal, and so is this event by sending our soldiers to a very important American country of Minnesota from which we have recently received the president of this country. Obviously, some things don't work the way they're supposed to, is it because the deadlines are short or someone else runs the game and then the Department of Defense finds themselves in a very awkward situation that actually doesn't know the dynamics of military exercises that will happen this year or next year? If it's short deadlines or if some other countries have other rules when it comes to bilateral military exercises, or if it's really some of our laws that don't allow us to operate. Now there are two options, or we need to respect these laws, it's about... the laws of the Republic of Croatia, it's about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, or we just have to agree that it would be good to think about it and see if some of them are simply no longer standing, whether they are restrictive and then we need to change them. But it is not simple in itself, either, because if we release the Croatian Parliament of one such possibility this way, then the question is, who could make all these decisions and that all these decisions that could be made could have certain adverse consequences. As long as the laws,...the laws as long as the Constitution is as I am are, that the Constitution and the laws of our own which we have brought here by our own free political will, may be respected. But I'm also saying, you should think about these possibilities to come up with certain adjustments where they're not going. This is how when reading the Constitution and its Article 7 are then paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 can in some way be in a certain conflict, and then it is only a question which we will apply and then we hear that the President of the Republic has called for Article 7(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and some others here refer to the same article but to paragraph 2. On the other hand, the ministry is asking the Parliament to make one such decision because of the possible interpretation of existing constitutional solutions. If he's looking again, we're the ones who'd be good enough to think about it and see what we're gonna do in the future. But what we're interested in at the club like this and finally me, should we maybe open up a very important topic here that other than these general places that these exercises are in the function of Euro-Atlantic integration, that they belong exactly to this one anti-terrorist trend, that part of the global anti-terrorism movement that Croatia must include in that, if we are part of the international community, members of the United Nations that they wanted us not to, we must act in accordance with these existing international rules. But what interests me as a representative and as a citizen is how many specific signatures on some, here's the Adriatic Charter, on this memo, bilateral agreements with America or someone else and the Partnership for Peace. In fact, what it means is that it has implications for this political plan. It certainly can't be separated. It can't be two parallel worlds, so then I don't know that we're signing it because it's nice to sign it, and then we have certain costs and certain problems that we are facing here today, or it has certain repercusions to some new geostrategic relations that Croatia can also extract from. What does it mean to be part of, to be a signator of the Adriatic Charter, which means to be part of the Partnership for Peace? In general, what military documents we sign have implications for our political situation. There have been some colleagues before me who have opened exactly what is happening with the European Union of France, the Netherlands and some other countries, in fact, have shown a tendency to give up certain solutions and that all of this will, in fact, reflect both Croatia and our status. I think these are the things this House needs to discuss. This is where certain political decisions are made, and this can be achieved by some consensus and not by the fact that we react from time to time, and then I don't know that we have this relationship with the demilitarisation of Istria and the case of Pula, and by some other issues which then become day-to-day political issues. I think it is very important that when some laws are passed, when some memoranda are signed, when we enter into some relationships that actually there is also awareness of what this means, and what are the positive effects and what are my God and what are the negative effects, because it is certainly clear that with certain solutions of the international communities or the European Union, or parts of the European Union, some members cannot be satisfied but can we in some way compensate for that and whether it is compensated if we are participants in some other processes. And lastly, no less important, the same thing that remains unclear from all this motion decision and what might interest us because we ourselves have certain questions because we ourselves are actually the country in which foreign soldiers were present. What's actually going to happen if God doesn't give some of our soldiers in that famous Minnesota come into some of the unpleasant situations of that banal traffic violation or some of the other situations, which the laws then apply and so on. These are all the things that, after all, these people, they are our citizens, they have their families, they have their own family. After all, we are representatives who should also protect their interests and I think that these are the things with which this House is before this House, this public must come to us all the way to the end. It's not like we get rightly angry when and I think the last time we talked about a memo, it's going to be a port... So what jurisdiction would it be, who would answer, who would have control, we were looking for some answers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that even on this thing, if we already raise our hands that these people are leaving, and I agree, too, if we want to be a part of that world and it's hard, it's actually impossible to act autistic and be, to run some isolationist policy. But then also because of these and because of these people who are now going and who will go in the future that about and on these questions we know the answers rather than actually say we raise our hand and there are a lot of unknowns besides these general places that are in themselves to say acceptable and it's hard to be against them but it's good to know some other details and if and somewhere they write it isn't bad again because of the public. And let's not really expect every citizen of this country to know all the details of these very subtle and delicate military missions and military exercises that we refer to our soldiers. As I must say again, as a liberal, I am always for those who belong to peacekeeping missions, which belong to humanitarian aid, which are under the auspices of the United Nations. These are the things for which, as a citizen and a representative, I will always raise my hand very easily. But I'm saying one more time a little bit more detail wouldn't be a waste if we were to really support ourselves as easily and simply as possible, and that this was actually the last case in some way that led us to a very unpleasant situation. I say, here I go back to my first thesis. I don't understand if I'd say yesterday the soldiers flew away that, by chance, my colleague Cain wasn't an overzealous morning newspaper reader, and that the President of the Parliament had not given him the opportunity to ask him a question at all. The question could have been denied, so he wouldn't get the chance to say exactly what he wanted to say. That's it. Otherwise, I say there's no reason not to get up and not to subport this military exercise, by the way, because it's a job with a pretty unpleasant partner who has his very strict rules of play that I'm not every time sure we take them seriously enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38612	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go. No, you didn't answer the line. You answered the correct quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have no right to expose the club on the replica. Then let's move on. Honorable representative Tonci Tadic Club of HSP Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38613	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! It is really good that fellow parliamentary deputies read the paper yesterday, both counterparts Kajin and counterpart Pero Kovacevic and warned of a failure to make this decision. I, here, remind you of the already cited article 7 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that armed forces can leave our borders only within the framework of exercises within international defence organisations. A partnership for peace is a NATO programme, not an organisation. He's a NATO program. Croatia joined it but Croatia did not join NATO organisation so that we can call on it as an excuse that the Parliament does not have to discuss sending the Croatian Army to a military exercise in Minnesota. What is still interesting here is to find out when the President of the Republic referred this Decision to send the Croatian Army to practice in Minnesota, whether Mr. President directed it yesterday or directed it this morning, because if it is there then it also speaks of a kind of indifference when it comes to sending the Croatian army outside our borders, because these military exercises are planned months in advance. They, the decision for them can be made months in advance. In addition, this decision was sent to the Parliament for the vote on 20 May of this year, so time was progressing. But if the President of the Republic had already taken the decision to send the Croatian Army to military exercise in Minnesota, why did he not at the same time take the decision to send the Croatian Army and the other military exercises that took place during July, September and October. Or we'll wait here for the last minute and then the day before we leave, we'll make the decision to send the Croatian Army. Therefore, this is not a good approach to meeting constitutional and legal obligations either by the President of the Republic or by the Minister of Defence. What is also important to us is that here the National Guard is actually a partner and host to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, so not the US Army, but the National Guard of Minnesota, and we have to respect that. It is also about the national guard in the status of territorial defense, not the status of that main form of the United States Armed Forces. The further moment I wish to mention here is the fact that this document, in this Decision, does not specify the amount of the costs of the participation of the Croatian Army in these military exercises. So all taxpayers must be curious about how much this military exercise costs. We rarely get a report on the cost of military exercises when it is held within Croatia, but here we expected to learn at least the cost of military exercises, participation in military exercises when it takes place on the territory of other countries. Therefore, it would not be bad if the minister, writing this decision, at least in an explanation, stated that the amount is except for this very general formulation that they will take place on the burden of the state budget in the entry of the Ministry of Defence. What is equally important is the issue of military exercises over Pula in September. The fact is that September is still the season, those who deal with tourism know well that each year's season runs towards the 10th month. September is still the season and it would be good to plan this military exercise over Pula in a way that is planned to disrupt tourists who will definitely still be in this area of Istria as much as possible. Any breach of the sound wall, any completely unnecessary action of mygic flight of Istria will not make a good impression on a tourist in Istria, and this should indeed be taken into account when a military exercise is planned. I really don't see why it wasn't delayed for October when the effects on tourism would be far less pronounced. What is equally important to note is that Croatia as you know it has signed and the Parliament has spent the first reading of the memorandum on the use of our military bases and ports by the Armed Forces of the United States. This is the first time that Croatian Armed Forces will participate in some military exercise on U.S. territory. We are interested in HSP, and I believe that it will be educational for other clubs as well as for the Ministry of Defence that in that case, in the event of the participation of our Armed Forces in the military exercise in the territory of the United States, NATO sofa agreement will be implemented in that case. In this case, will it also be very generous to give in to Articles 7 and 8. NATO sofa agreements defining the criminal responsibility of members of the Croatian Armed Forces, i.e. the issue of damage compensation. I remind myself here of the fact that according to a NATO sofa agreement which must be applied in this case, criminal responsibility is exceptional for all matters that take place under official duty. Anything that happens outside official duty shall be regulated by a special procedure. Similarly, in the case of compensation for damages, compensation for damages is determined by special arbitration and is forgiven if the damage to the territory of the United States is less than $1,400. Therefore, these facts should be taken into account and the actions of the U.S. Government towards our soldiers should be taken into account when we discuss another reading on the acceptance of memos of our military bases of airports and ports to the US Armed Forces. In this regard, we want full reciprocity and respect for NATO's sofa agreement, and I remind you that we will protest if our hosts do not strictly adhere to NATO's sofa agreement. Croatia wants a partnership with the United States, that's good, but in that sense we have to stick to the signed and ratified agreements, especially one that regulates the criminal responsibility of our soldiers or possibly the damage they commit in the territory of the United States during this military exercise. The HSP Club will support this Decision, but before that, we want the minister to answer a series of questions that we have raised at this time, and from you, Mr President of the Croatian Parliament, we are asking for information when the President of the Republic sent and signed the decision to refer the Croatian Army to a military exercise in Minnesota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38614	Thank you very much. The President of the Republic signed this Decision on 9 June 2005. Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš, Club of HNS-PGS Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38615	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The main point of view of the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorskin alliance is that military exercises and overall military cooperation are an integral part of the foreign-political orientation of the Republic of Croatia in terms of joining Euro-Atlantic integration and of course we support the maintenance of military exercises, as well as the participation of members of the Armed Forces and members of other state authorities in various operations outside the country as well as the maintenance of exercises within the country. But it should be said that there is indeed a great confusion in this area and what happened yesterday, or what is happening today, is a confirmation of this confusion. That mess should certainly be cleared up, and perhaps someone should answer for it. One of the exercises that was here, which is on the list that at least all could be declared by the logic of the "PFP" exercise because it is not about regular forces but about the population of the reserve. Namely, the National Guard is something between the territorial units and the US military reserve so it would be least logical to expect a joint "PFP" exercise with that type of force. And now this exercise is being declared a "PFP" exercise, and all other exercises are obviously not "PFP" exercises because if they were, then they shouldn't have made this decision. In that case, those exercises would fall under Article 7, paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should not, but I will say more about it later. It is therefore obvious that the erasure of paragraph 2 is subparagraph 1. So erasing this exercise, emergency exit. Toying with actually seems to me to be legal, legislative, so that in case we're embarrassed. Our soldiers were supposed to be in the United States today. The drill was supposed to start tomorrow. The arrival of soldiers is the beginning of the exercise and so on. So we were embarrassed and someone would have to answer for it. Of course, where should we seek responsibility? Certainly, if this is acceptable, what the Government has proposed today, i.e. to make this a "PFP" exercise, then it is the one who suggested that this exercise, or decision to maintain it, come to the Croatian Parliament. He made a mistake. That's why there was the abuse of soldiers yesterday and, of course, the delay of our water in Minnesota. So someone made a mistake, and that person should answer. But it's at the level of what happened and it's actually just an opportunity to talk about the slightly wider circumstances of sending members of the Armed Forces out of the country. If, therefore, we will strictly respect Article 7, paragraph 3. The constitution, and since it's three cases of multilateral exercises, and in one case, bilateral exercise, and with, I guess, air force members of the United States, then I don't see why all four exercises more than the Minnesota exercise wouldn't be "PFP" exercises? What is the procedure, what is the nomenclature of determining that one exercise is a "PFP" exercise and the other is not? That's what the Ministry on, we need to decide. The multilateral exercises in Georgia, Albania and Ukraine certainly have a connection with the "PFP" whether or not they are members of the "PFP" or not because there are co-operations between the member states "PFP" and "NATO" and those countries that are not members of the "PFP" and all this can be undertaken under a partnership for peace. And I absolutely don't understand why these exercises, too, if it could be an exercise in Minnesota, wouldn't be exercises within the framework of the Partnership for Peace, and then you wouldn't need this decision to the Croatian Parliament at all because it's about exercises and it's not about peace operations or any other operations. There are therefore a number of open issues, and obviously the Ministry of Defence, or the Government, does not have the power to clearly set things up, and then in order to remove all responsibility from itself, everything is being sent to the Croatian Parliament, and in some cases it is shown very badly like this yesterday. It is particularly problematic, in that sense, to cooperate delicately with the forces of the United States. Very often the exercise requirements come within very short deadlines, and our procedure is I suppose one of the strictest. It's hard for me to imagine a stricter procedure for sending our forces out of the country. Two-thirds of all MPs. This is absolutely difficult to achieve, especially when it becomes a matter of political relations. We don't have such an operational consensus on the matter. So it's something that's terribly difficult and the worst situation that can happen is exactly the one that happened. To accept a short deadline, and the Parliament for any reason does not respect that deadline and comes to delay the exercise. It's really something that can't happen. If it is estimated that this is the procedure that needs to be respected in, in certain cases, it is not necessary to accept such short deadlines and I repeat often are also my experience of the requirements of the forces of the United States to this short-term, short-term, short-term deadlines, namely that it is very difficult to fit them into such strict procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Under our Constitution, a two-thirds majority is required and the law that regulates it of course could not accept that constitutional provision. You should definitely think about it. Of course the Constitution doesn't touch every day. It should not be changed every day, but a provision that requires two-thirds of the decision of the Croatian Parliament for every and every military operation to participate in our troops outside the country's borders. That attitude should certainly be considered when any change to the Croatian Constitution is discussed for the first time since the Law on the referral of our members outside the country, which speaks of it, of course, could not have changed the constitutional provision. Otherwise, it is interesting that this text of the government that we have received is not at all called for by the Law on the referral of members of the Armed Forces outside the country and we have a special law that regulates this rather than refers only to Article 6. The law on defence as if this special law, which is more detailed and better, regulates the issue more precisely and so on, as if there were no such law. It would be good to hear from the minister why is that? What does that mean? If the Ministry does not consider, in its operational implementation, that the provisions of the Law on the referral of members of the Armed Forces are too complicated to follow, follow, then it is referred to a much simpler provision of Article 6. Defense laws. So here's what these are, so these are fundamental issues that are being opened during this debate. We've certainly done some damage. It would be good for someone to answer for that damage. It would be good to define how in other cases we will approach these issues. Things should, of course, be as simple as possible. Of course, by fully respecting the legal and constitutional provisions because the worst solution that is in place is therefore precisely this one, which is that the strictest conditions are accepted, hence the strictest legal and constitutional provisions, and that, in fact, because of political relations because of the fact that, of course, there is always a policy that raises questions about consensus. It happens that you're not actually able to respect it. And this isn't the first case. It was never so drastic that there was a delay or this one, what the President of the Republic and the Minister did, so when they suddenly concluded that it was no longer an exercise but that it was a "PFP" of some kind of esquivage that I do not condemn. She may have been welcome, only possible in that hour. But before there were cases that in the Croatian Assembly the decision to refer members, this colleague Željka knew as well, one happened during her term, stood for weeks and months because it was not expected that there could be a consensus that would bring the two-thirds majority. It's something that's absolutely not good, and you need to seriously think about how to come up with a solution that won't be so strict. So either wherever exercises can be converted into "PFP" exercises or NATO exercises. They need to be converted, and then they won't need a decision from the Croatian Parliament. It should be considered that some of the most important issues are made in principle, the general decisions of the Croatian Parliament so that the decision should not be strictly tied to the smallest unit referred to in some military exercise, and, of course, I repeat in the perspective whether such a strict provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be mitigated and then the laws allow these decisions to be taken when it comes to smaller units, when it comes to routine procedures or routine action of the Armed Forces, to make the very high two-thirds majority of the Republic of Croatia's defences more relaxed in law so that, regardless of which it was in this respect, there is no big difference in making it easier to carry out its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38616	Thank you very much. SDP advocates' club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38617	Mr. President. Mr. Minister. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate so far has been quite interesting for me personally, and I think that, apart from some attempts to use this topic to gain daily political points, it has been very useful and has raised some serious issues and some serious issues and perhaps even mentioned some possible topics for future debates in this House or at least within the Committee on Internal Policy. What I want to say right away about the SDP Club is not controversial, it is not a questionable support to this decision because it is a decision behind which will follow military exercises that will give positive effects and in two directions. The one that seems to be most important to us, and to me, particularly because of the experience I have had working for a time in the military system, is that members of the Armed Forces will gain new and very important experiences and knowledge both in the operational part and on the other, the Republic of Croatia will benefit in international positioning us regardless of whether we are talking about the NATO Alliance, whether we are talking about other international associations, the UN, the European Union or any other association that we are at least for now, if not the general public, then surely all of us in this Assembly have expressed their support for Croatia's future involvement in that association. What we condemn in the SDP is making such decisions, serious and important decisions, regardless of whether major political or important operational decisions are for the day-to-day political debates. On this occasion, although the media is always involved, and so are we politicians, and we Parliament politicians, I don't think that the responsibility is even borne by the media, and not even by individuals in this House who have taken the opportunity to score it seems to me at all but it is very possible in our public and political daily life. So I don't think they're responsible. I, indeed, am responsible for this unserious approach to this rather simple decision, see first and foremost in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the Resort Ministry. Namely this decision when you see it is simple. The explanation with this decision is minimalistic, and I think it is slightly underestimating when it comes to the point that comes to debate in the Croatian Parliament. Don't mind me, the Ministry of Defence has had and has also had this occasion of problems, often unnecessary problems when it proposes and seeks a decision of the Croatian Parliament, so here this decision has been here since 23 May. Indeed, as my colleague Radoš said earlier, there were situations where decisions waited weeks for them to come to the agenda, and only because the two-thirds majority in voting for something that is neither today nor at issue when it comes to the interests of both the Armed Forces and the Republic of Croatia. But this time it's not the Parliament's fault either. I think that the government could and should have proposed this decision a long time ago for adoption, that it was just the experience from some past periods that should have been the one to ensure that the ministry came in time with this decision. That she has a head and tail, that she doesn't change from yesterday to today, that it doesn't change under the pressure of some media public or political advances regardless of who it was, about us, about who it was, but simply what that decision was meant to be. I agree that our regulations are very strict and that it is difficult to function under such conditions but it is not impossible. Such strict regulations and great authority of the Parliament in making such decisions, often the ultimate operational decisions in which we should not interfere, requires only timely good preparation. And I don't think there's gonna be a problem then. There would be even less trouble in this assembly when the opposition that makes comments on such decisions is never tempted not to support such decisions for purely political reasons. I, unfortunately, remember this experience myself when, for purely political reasons, there was no support for the opposition to these same decisions. The same people or the same political options that today no doubt take such decisions, in the previous assembly, refused to give support to such decisions. I am not talking about this so that we should discuss here what our colleague Kramaric has indicated today, whether political circumstances have changed, whether through these military exercises and our participation in the Partnership for Peace, in the processes of joining NATO or in any other activities, programmes or associations, whether there are any changes to political positioning or political interests of the Republic of Croatia. To interfere with how and where the exercise will take place, if it will be held, I think it exceeds what we in the Assembly should do. And if we're already showing or we're willing to show such great mistrust to the Department of Defense, then I don't think we should be discussing whether this is all right, but whether those sitting in the Department of Defense are okay and whether they're capable of doing their job. But it's not a topic, and no one's opened that topic yet, and I don't want to open it either, and I have no reason to open it right now, but I'm just warning that it's not a good idea to bring these decisions down to a daily political level. Also loud and clear, if for nothing else then, because of the record and the possibility of afterwards calling for that record, I will show my hope that those who yesterday are not, and today, without any doubt, show support for this decision that such decisions will support them in other circumstances and other times. Once again, I would like to repeat that we expect respect for both the Constitution and the law from the Republic of Croatia's resolution ministry and the Government, however difficult this is, no matter how complicated the job is. We expect decisions to be made in time and that these decisions are not so embarrassingly bad, in no way justified. Because no matter how much we have to discuss it, but when we have to decide then we need to know what kind of exercises it is, what their goal is, what benefits these exercises will be, and that other than general political indications about the benefits and objectives of this decision, there is no reason for it. I also once again want to show my hope and the desire for decisions to come on time, not to change from today until tomorrow, and then I am convinced that we will avoid or at least minimise such daily debates on this subject and that neither the Armed Forces nor its members nor its commanders, and then neither the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence will be thrown out by such media articles. There is another element I would like to warn again from my own experience because the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public are also in this situation, and it is brought about by the ministry's impeccableness due to the government's impeccable approach to such decisions. There is some kind of compromise between both the Republic of Croatia and our Armed Forces with partners regardless of whether they are multilateral, bilateral exercises or exercises organised as part of international organisations. If you, in daily communication with any commanders or commands of these exercises, must report that the uncertain arrival or departure of your soldiers or receiving those soldiers has not yet come to the agenda or is not discussed or cannot be called quorum, then these partners consider you to be a very unserious country and very unserious partners. Since we have very capable members of the Armed Forces, highly prepared members of the Armed Forces who have never compromised us in any international activity, they have contributed to raising the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and our abilities when we talk about security and defence. I think it is unacceptable to bring down both the reputation of the Armed Forces and the reputation of the state at political level and also its own reputation by acting irresponsiblely, late to propose and make these decisions or what is worse, by collecting quorums for such operations and for Croatia and the Armed Forces must be useful and valuable decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38618	Thank you very much. At 11.47, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38619	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Defense. Well, first of all, what's important is to say, I've heard here and a few ministers, first of all, need to clarify for the public how and how military exercises are planned. Military exercises are usually planned in all countries a year in advance, i.e. the current year for the next calendar year, and if they are planned to be either bilateral or are within international organisations then and so international organisations mean they have their own exercise plan and activities such as the NATO Alliance or such as the Partnership for Peace and they are also planning for the next year, this means that at least this plan will be adopted somewhere in December as it was probably in December 2004 for 2005, because training and exercises are included in the activities planned forward and not planned from today to tomorrow. This was the case with the Ministry of Defence in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia while the defence minister was the late Gojko Šušak, as well as Mr Andrija Hebrang, and I am surprised that such doubts are now being created, as well as how military exercises are planned in the Armed Forces, mainly in these situations. If something is planned, then how is it legally handled if it is in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Commander, and it is, then is sent the same in December of that year to bring the entire exercise and training programme into the Armed Forces for, say, the 2005 case, and according to what we have observed here is one situation, it means that the President of the State as Supreme Commander, the Government and the Minister of Defence from the situation in which they themselves have been brought in, however elegantly, and so that this part, means this exercise bilateral exercise, which was defined as a bilateral military exercise of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the unit of the Minnesota National Guard, they have put into the coverage of Article 7(3). The Constitution, i.e. in a specific case, has been implemented by Article 8. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, police and civil protection, as well as civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad. So when it is determined to belong to that category then normally it does not need decisions of the Croatian Parliament and then it does not enter the exercises as the other exercises contained in this section are but belongs under Article 8 and in such a case, the defence minister proposes to the Supreme Commander and the commander-in-chief makes such a decision. Obviously, the situation here is being saved, and it is legally brought into the situation in which it should, because according to our findings of the HSP Club, this exercise begins otherwise, on June 10th, and the cave is now real and concrete as it happened means that this bilateral transfer under Article 7(3) means that it is part of international defence organisations only because of this case yesterday, because it is objectively impossible for this bilateral military exercise to be part of that international organisation to be part of or plan of NATO's exercise alliances or a plan for the Partnership for Peace exercise, and we can't prove it because there is no such thing. But okay, I'm saying we really got out of this situation elegantly. Now we have to be aware here in the Croatian Parliament, so here I will give criticism to the Croatian Parliament Presidency. This decision came on 23 May 2005. This is the last week of the meeting of this Croatian Assembly. Many other points were listed before, although it was planned far earlier according to the original agenda, and therefore we too bear our share of responsibility. It means the Presidency of the Parliament, as well as the representatives who were supposed to respond to all these variations that were happening. And therefore, in the sense of this, it is necessary to distinguish what was said here, which is the subject of the Law on Defence as a military exercise Article 6(2), which means our Constitution, which is the subject of the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection, civil servants and subsistence in peace operations and other activities abroad. Therefore, for this Decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Armed Forces, there is no room for mentioning this Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, or this Act has been used in accordance with Article 7(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitution that this military exercise that was planned as a bilateral transfer within international organisations means it was bypass. How should this be done if you want to do so Parliament gets a full picture, then this decision where the Assembly has to give, so there is no need here for a two-thirds, top half majority, because it is a military exercise, it is not a peace operation and the HSP Club has always opposed Mrs Antunovic, those peace operations where the members of the Croatian military were exposed to executions, means opportunities exposed to executions such as Afghanistan, and other situations and we will always oppose them in such situations, and then in such situations, the two-thirds majority of all MPs are required, and this is about exercises and training, this is not applicable to this situation and it is visible from all these laws. But I say, just to finish this part, then it would be appropriate in such a decision to say what is the first thing, meaning on which military exercises that fall under Article 6 are decided by the Croatian Parliament, and in points 3 or 4, to count in which more military exercises are involved by the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, but on the basis of Article 7(3), and then the situation would be quite clear. Therefore, I advocated the adoption of this Decision on the maintenance of military exercises, I think this decision is favourable for us, because this is, we have always had the variation to weigh part of the military exercise in Croatia, and here we now have the case that out of the 5 exercises planned as military exercises, or one has already jumped out, 4 are held abroad, one in Croatia and therefore I will vote for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38620	Thank you very much. One notice regarding this Decision, I received it on 23 May at 11 p.m. and 5 minutes, came from the Government, 23. And I put it in, the Parliament put it on agenda 25. That's the day it was a working and solemn session of the Parliament. The following day was the holiday of the body, Saturday, Sunday, June 1st, one committee discussed, June 2nd, and only after that could the decision be discussed, today is June 9th, so we theoretically couldn't before June 3rd. And the final review of the defence minister, Berislav Roncevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38621	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to answer a few questions that the distinguished MPs asked in the debate whether they would have left if Mr. Cain hadn't accidentally found out from the papers, they wouldn't have left because they shouldn't have left yesterday. One false interpretation from the Public Relations Service, which is one practice that we agree to abandon and slowly abandon, members of the Croatian Armed Forces are increasingly involved in bilateral and multilateral military exercises, increasingly participating in those most demanding functions, and this no longer needs to be a media event, or celebration as in some times when a son went to the military, so in that part I receive criticism that we may have made a certain mistake with our clumsy interpretation. However, it is certainly a fact that the distinguished Mr. MP did not know about the decision only from the papers but also as a member of a significant parent committee on the issue of this activity, he was definitely familiar with it much earlier. They were not gone, nor were they supposed to go yesterday, therefore, no delay, no lewdness, this military exercise, otherwise, the military exercise itself is scheduled in time from June 21st to June 23rd, these are all pre-prepared actions. Why the delay, or why the delay. I am pleased that my colleagues and colleagues and colleagues Radoš who were ministers discussed in the way they discussed because they faced this issue, I will not open here the question of the Constitution that is not my right or my jurisdiction, but the fact and I agree that we have the most restrictive system of sending members of the Croatian Armed Forces out of the country and entering the country and we have set as a strategic goal and joining NATO and we are definitely in the process of joining that organisation and therefore there is no doubt that item 3 can be applied in this case. When planning military exercises, we can go much earlier, but with much less data, but then we can get into a collapsing that the earlier decision leaves less data because every exercise contract at her final planning conference, so we are at a very late stage, the question is how to record the costs of this military exercise. We got from the American side's partner that it's P activity and they're also leading it for these other exercises, on the question of fellow Radosha, why not the others, because simply in our service for international defence cooperation they didn't recognize or classify it as PFP activities, they may have some features but I agree and in that service there will be some changes to make it possible to react more quickly to this. Successfully, I thank the evaluations of the training of members of our Armed Forces and it is good interest of the Republic of Croatia that our soldiers exercise, that in this way compare themselves with members of other armed forces and we have, the fact is that we have very high quality results so in an international competition from these military activities, the reconnaissance squad, in Slovakia won first place, the company for special actions one of its leaders won first place in the Czech Republic, we have very good results but the fact and daily raising of the quality of our officers, officers and soldiers, but undoubtedly this joint participation in military exercises contributed to it. I thank you for supporting this decision, the observed shortcomings in the preparation of this will be removed but the fact is that sometimes very late we get from the partner country with whom or the organizer, the main organizer of the exercise and some information, so I also ask for your understanding. I'd like to take a brief look at why Pula airport. Pula Airport was even before I became a minister elected and established as an airport bound by the HoS Nation Support, the support of the host country and it was planned, the original plan was with the American side to be somewhere in mid-June, we estimated that this was not appropriate for those reasons that Mr Cain said, the tourist season, possible negative effects on the tourist season and we decided that it would be a possible objective deadline in late September... these exercises with the fact that it is happening in the airspace and that it will not cause any special public alert and that it will not have these negative reflections in the tourist season because it will already be in its post phase. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38622	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no valid 102-voting quorum to vote on a Decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Since the first contingent is scheduled to go in early July, and we will have a session at the end of June and then we will vote on it. Thank you very much. I'm done. I'm closing the 14th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38626	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club supports the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia, who also received the consent and support of the general session of the Supreme Court to appoint Supreme Court Judge Ranko Marijan as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Maybe this is just another chance for all of us here together to think about that clue where we are all together about the full achievement of judicial reform. We have seen and we all know it, I think there is not only one general, but first of all, what would be very important here in the Croatian Parliament is the consent never to repeat in Croatia what happened with the Croatian judiciary in 2000, but on this trail and on some of the solutions that we have just and normably set since 2000, so that they have not given the desired results in terms of achieving judicial reform. That's why I think there should be a political consensus that will personalize and responsibility, first of all and power and then responsibility. Without it, I don't think it's going to be in the fullest sense at least not at the expected speed of judicial reform. For this reason, this may be another occasion for all of us to agree on this to give greater authority and therefore more responsibility to the Supreme Court institution itself and, in power, to the President of the Supreme Court, who represents a judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38627	Thank you very much. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38628	Your Honor, Mr. President! Here's for the President of the Supreme Court, the president of the state is proposing Mr. Rank Marian. However, I dare say there are two problems here. The first problem is that the Republic of Croatia and something similar has happened to us with this military exercise in Minnesota on 15.5. this year, it was left without the president of the most judicial power. Today we are 9.6.2005, which will say that it has been 25 days and that Croatia was without a Supreme Court president. No one paid too much attention to that, but the court was sitting, and I'm still guessing it's a saying slow of his decision, someone was making a contribution, and others weren't making sense. However, the fact is that it was too late with the proposal. It is also to assume that this proposal is a "contract", that in some way a consensus on the part of the president of the state, on the other hand the Prime Minister or only the Government, and that since Mr. Marian acted as one of the highest executive functions in the government, the former prime minister would pass that appointment without opposition. I personally felt that no scene should be made out of that appointment, but here we now have another problem. In the "morning list" of 4.6, I read the column of Ivan Zvonimir Cick, which states, it should be quoted as saying, that as judge of that court, he was known to have tried at the end of communism in one of the last political processes condemning Dobroslav Paragu to probation for describing the situation in the most notorious Yugoslav prison, meaning Golom Island. He sentenced journalist Salih Zvizdic to fines in the spectacular process in which Momo Kapor sued Zvizdic for writing Kapor's participation in the Chetnik party in America, etc. And now there's a kind of problem. Has anyone tried their time as political dissidents? It is clear to me that in the 1970s or 1980s no one in Croatia could have been a judge, prosecutor, minister of the then Socialist government or republic, chief of police or general without being a member of the Communist Party. But at the end of the 1980s, when political changes were already seen that socialism could not survive in such a form, it was not necessary to judge political dissidents because it was not necessary to judge Mr. Dobroslav Paragi for talking about the Gol Island. It should have been possible to judge those who led the Goli Island if they abused their legal obligations and not those who served as children like Parage on the Gol Island. Furthermore, I quote the second part of the text by Cickov that, after the fall of communism, Marijan was declared a suspended sentence against Karmen Barsic for the business of open society and for the verdict of journalists related to Gojko Suška and his alleged involvement in the hiding of Hague indictee Ivica Raic, etc. However, however, Mr. Marian will be the President of the Supreme Court and I will also be open to the fact that someone was, for example, 70 or 80 members of the Communist Party should not be banned from anyone, that nobody, me, or Chicka, or anyone else should be concerned. It's just like that. People believed in something, people identified themselves with something. For some, most of it was the same condition to express their professional or some other affinities. However, it was one thing to be in the Communist Party and the other, in the name of some ideology or some regime, to wrong someone. I want to believe that, in spite of the Parago case, Marian did not do so and that it would not be given to justify any time, no regime, no third. And so much is the clear independence of the judiciary, so much is the freedom of the press, so much is important to respect the incomparability of expression, freedom of protest among other things and so on. Unfortunately, even in the 1990s, it was no different. Without a card, it couldn't have been much, but it has to be admitted that after the 1990s at least no one was tried, under quotes, because of a different speech, or a different thought. It was tried for slander, it was tried for mental pain but not for political attitude, and that's already some progress, regardless of what might have been more difficult, more uncertain than it was in the 1990s. But that's always the way it is. In the '70s, the '80s probably lived better, socially incomparable, humanely, everyone had a job, pensions were such that they could live, but they "couldn't" say everything and today we can say whatever we want, we know that no one will be tried for it but a bunch of people are uncomparedly harder to live today than they did in the '60s, '70s or '80s. But it's democracy in the Croatian way. In the Constitution we've all called upon earlier, we have written down the highest values of freedom, but I dare say that man is not free unless he's materially independent. And therefore Croatian citizens will be free when they are clearly and materially independent. About this appointment and some other reasons IDS will be restrained. Today I read the title in the New List, the Voice of Istria, the Marian Selection conditioned by consensus in the Parliament. It is literally said that at a meeting of the Assembly Committee on Justice, he said that without consensus he would not have the legitimacy to act as responsible and that in case it did not happen he would not accept that duty. No matter what the IDS Club does, it'll be held back. No one is always clearly ideal, but I think it's probably the best choice from the one offered. It should be kept in mind these other conditions, 15 years of judicial training. The fact that he's guilty and he always has to blame someone. However, we bear in mind some other cases of Škorić, etc., etc. All in all IDS, like I said, will be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38629	Thank you very much. HSP Club, Honorable Representative Anto Djapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38630	Mr. President, my colleagues and colleagues, my debate would be similar to my colleagues Caina just now. Namely, since it is a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court and has passed, I would say, all the procedures here to the Croatian Assembly to assume that it is a top expert legal, legal, legal who knows his job, which clearly through his career as a lawyer and judge has the kopetence to behave this extremely responsible and valuable duty in the Croatian judiciary. However, let the questions be asked, practically the questions raised itself and the candidate himself with what was finished by fellow Cain I will begin with, when he has conditionaled on the Committee for Justice his choice with full consensus in the Croatian Parliament. We know that it is not always easy in the Croatian Parliament to reach a consensus because when some things are decided which are very important content, character, then a number of consents, talks, arrangements are made to reach a consensus, and when I practically say, not perhaps in the form of an ultimatum, but when the candidate for the Supreme Court sets up his possible appointment, the decision on the appointment as a prerequisite for it to be consensual at this point is logical that in every political party, at least in Croatia, the right party has awakened a certain interest to see in fact what this is really about, because so far we are not at such functions or, let's say, in our own time for the judges of the Constitutional Court, they chose the judges but there were severe political and controversy and overrumication and the consent and then elected judges of the Constitutional court were not disses. We here at HSP, of course, as we consider colleague Caine, I would say no doubt, questionable, but we consider it important to warn and ask exactly what is true of speculation in public or public, in the media that the candidate for Supreme Court has participated in some possible political processes before the 1990s. It is certainly a situation that cannot be a good recommendation for the President of the Supreme Court, I would agree with the assessments that my colleague Cain spoke of that mere presence in... The 90th party cannot be one of the criteria of supporting or not supporting a candidate, but for the President of the Supreme Court it is extremely important whether and in his behaviour and his duties he held clear and firm principles of justice, justice and non-participation in the past system as privileged past systems and I would say in this way burdened people, condemned people, participated in processes against people who had different political views compared to that system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For all these reasons, we would like the Committee on Justice who also gave the green light that the president of the Committee is when, since there is no candidate here, I don't know and how it would be by the rules of procedure if someone said a few words about it if they wanted, if we can't get a completely clear and clear position, we will be indifferent to the fact that Mr. candidate for the Supreme Court has insisted that his choice must be consensual. We will also be as the Croatian Party's Club of Rights at the very least restrained about its choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38631	Thank you very much. HNS-PGS's respected representative, William Herman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38632	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for the election of the President of the Court, the Supreme Court, and whatever it means, we should be satisfied that this proposal is here in front of the High House, because we are in a position to select the first person from an important institution and thus make the institution work neatly. What's not good, of course, is that with this proposal in a procedure that's more or less respected, there's been a bit of a delay, maybe not as much of a legal mess as that mess that's bothering the atmosphere, because of the social atmosphere and the public, because in the elections of these first people, these institutions must really be handled most carefully not only in relation to the one they touch, but in the way they approach the whole thing. To create a climate in which it will be understood that access to the choice of the first man, the first institution, of course with the Constitutional Court of the entire constitutional and legal order, should, however, be stressed that it is of particular importance. It has one layer in it, it could be expressed as a pedagogical, collectively pedagogical, and if it is not sent, a clear message of responsibility as to how and how this choice is done and that message will not be clear enough and it will not be on the other hand, it is exactly the same as that story to contribute to the authority of the institution. If Croatia has some deficits, unfortunately there are many deficits, I don't think of that payment deficit now, there is exactly a deficit in the institution's authority, however, it could be talked about a very serious crisis of the institution's authority. What exactly is all the reason for that? It's not a chance, it's not a time to talk about it in particular. But this story shouldn't, so I'm going to say once again to say that the institution's authority is not increasing, or that the crisis is deepening in one way or another. If a country like ours is going to say such a poetic young state, no matter what it means, is it really allowed to build authority and institutions and at least make mistakes? There may be one of the most dramatic questions. And there is also perhaps one of the answers to why in Croatia there is quite a gap in what is a normative or constitutional order and what is really social and realized, and it could be said that there really is quite a gap. Then, with surprise, we look at some social situations or some social phenomena and say, "Yeah, here you see that it happened, and we're not supposed to happen and we're surprised that something like that happened." So of course it happened if this gap still appears, what was imagined and designed in relation to realized and real. When that difference is too big, and I'm afraid something similar is happening to us, then it could be said that it's not just about the crisis of the institution anymore, but that maybe it's about something much more significant. In fact, it's about the moral crisis or the crisis of society entirely. We are convinced that this proposal therefore contributes precisely to increasing the authority of an institution, an institution called the Supreme Court. So also by increasing such significant social circumstances, which is legal certainty both individually and collectively, so if that is the case, it is also worth supporting this proposal. But let us remember that some of the things that happen, for example, in one of the island’s municipal courts, are then entered into the grantovnica, so that ownership over the knee cannot simply occur. That in some arguments some convictions may not make a person less judgmental because it is said in that explanation that the son of a person is a better asset. It's all been happening. So these are the familiar situations in which some are said to be more equal than others. The support of this proposal is therefore contrary to such legal situations. It is a support to the authority of institutions and to support legal certainty individually and equally collectively. We are equally concerned about those situations that talk about inequality when work disputes are resolved. In particular, there are stories about a series of small fates often unattractive to appear on headlines like this first or second when one judge favors to manipulate property or when it is appropriate to manipulate it because of so-called. Immunity. These situations do not come to the headlines, but when the first man is placed in the judicial system, so the President of the Supreme Court must and can possibly pronounce such a sentence. That justice is expected to take place, that legal certainty is happening, that the values of constitutional and legal order are realised, and that this is first and foremost manifested in individual fates, in the fates of the unfairly small people in those situations when their rights are realised whether they are injured or when they are based on the law. So once again support this proposal with the notes we've given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38633	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38634	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say, I'm in a great deal of trouble about this proposal. These were delayed and consisted of actually two pages of the letter from the President of the Republic and contains two pages of the "curiculum" of the proposed Judge Marian. I thought and apparently I was wrong that the seat of the Supreme Court is an extremely important function in the system. One would think that it is being prepared in time, that arguments are being given, and that one public debate is being held so that everyone can take a stand. To be familiar with the fact that he can support or not support the merits of the candidates. Instead, we have a totally unacceptable style here that actually completely challenges a very important function in our system. The procedure is extremely sloppy, there was no public debate and we don't know anything about candidate Marian. We know some of the things that were mentioned here. He was obviously involved in political processes. And not just before 1990. He was involved in the political process against Dobroslav Paraga. For me, Dobroslav Paraga is a democratic dissident of that time. I'd like to see Judge Marian's verdict and the reasons why he convicted Dobroslava Paragu. I think that every member of this House would be unserious if he didn't want to see such a single document and on the grounds that Mr. Marian is a worthy candidate for the President of the Supreme Court. Mr. Marijan was also involved in the process against Karmen Basic. Carmen Basic was my friend. Karmen Bašić was a key person of the Open Society Institute. I was here on the last day because I wasn't here when that process was being investigated by a whole series of people who knew something about the process. I got very contradictory information. I would like to see on what grounds Judge Marijan has condemned Karmen Basic. I'd like to know why we can be here for such a verdict if it's up to us. St. Philip Neri, by tradition, had a charisma that the smell could recognize the seriousness of a sinner standing before him. Those who were very sinful were very stinky. I'm not sure that charisma had anything to do with recognition of tails. Political tails. They say there are tail people all over our system. With long tails from this and that authoritarian system. I can't even recognize here in this House who's endowed with some long tail and who's relatively short. But when it comes to the seat of the Supreme Court President, I would like to be sure that this is a serious person, and only when I am convinced that I will be able to decide whether or not to vote for it? I think it's the only rational point of view, and I hope everyone here here is taking such a dilemma equally seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38635	Thank you very much. Replica, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38636	Your Honor, Mr. President, of course, the dignity of a person who is elected president of the court is one of the most important things. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, I said that for the President of the Court, one of the most important things at the Justice Committee, I said that the election of the Supreme Court is a holiday for the judiciary and for the rule of law and it is understandable that the proposal is being reconsidered. I would refer to the replica of one case, this is the case of Mrs. Bašić, whom I greatly appreciated and who gave great pain to Croatian democracy and with whom I participated in many actions together. However, I must say that in this case it was simply a non-political process, it was a matter of respecting certain financial rules and I think that such a process qualify as political and burdening the judge who, in my court, very mildly applied the law is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38637	Thank you. Replica, esteemed representative Ivo Banac, reply to the line, pardon me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38638	I cannot agree with this characterization that the process against Carmen Bacic was unpolitical. But let's let it go. I'd like to know what it means to be fined, because every punishment assumes political condemnation, assumes legal condemnation, there's no penalty that's mild in the context of being innocent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38639	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38640	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have a biography of Mr. Rank Marian as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It was proposed by the President of the Republic to this extremely responsible function. After coming forward, my colleagues, Banca, who I often do not share political views with, and after coming forward, I can also say that I will not cast my vote to elect a colleague, Rank Marijan. This is about his expertise. When we look through history, many people were professional, but it was a question of what was wrong with their morals. In his biography, he silenced what he was doing in communist times. For example. We have here from 1982 to 1998 I quote: "The judge of the criminal department and the deputy president of the municipal court in Zagreb. Below that, from 1979 to 1982, a judicial intern at County at the County Court of Zagreb said. We know that this time bar here in Croatia is the strongest communist dictatorship. We know that innocent people were persecuted for their opinions. Here's what we now have through the press information that Judge Marian tried people for his opinion. I keep in my humble opinion, I'm not a lawyer, that the judge who thinks to judge himself first must judge, the judge who thinks to judge others must judge himself first. If he was dependent on those who installed him on these functions at the time of the communist dictatorship, I fear he will continue to be addicted and will not be able to behave independently as responsible in the Croatian judiciary. And to avoid further debt, I simply cannot give my vote for this election, and I also believe that Mr. Marian will be very principled and will stick to what he has promised publicly, unless there is a consensus that he will not accept this responsible duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38641	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We would now have on the agenda in voting on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, but the President of the Republic withdrew the proposal to elect candidate Rank Marian since the candidate for the Supreme Court made a statement and later also wrote it in a letter to the President of the Republic and to me that he conditionally accepts the choice on the assumption that a consensus would be reached. So when he gets notice that in Parliament in the Croatian Parliament no one can provide it then he... by letter to the President of the Supreme Court and President of the Parliament that he was practically giving up, so the President of the Republic informed that he was withdrawing his proposal, so we will not even vote on it. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very serious. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38644	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is my duty as chairman of the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in connection with the issued state guarantees creditors of the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. The river to present hopefully a brief report of the commission that worked for six months. I would like to begin at the beginning of this presentation, which I hope I will not be supple, because you have all received a very comprehensive report, I would like to thank all the members and members of the investigative committee because we have succeeded in these 6 months in carrying out one large, very large business where, by the basis of the decision to set up this committee, we have acted in a way that we considered the most qualitative and best by collecting a whole series of reports, materials, evidence that we have tried and finally managed to make a proposal for measures and conclusions on the work of our commission. I would like to begin by reminding that in the Decision establishing an investigative committee, it is most important to highlight the third point of that decision, which has defined what is required to establish an investigative commission. It was required to determine who were the real owners of the Shipyard "Vicor Lenac" which granted loans and state guarantees, the reasons why State guarantees were issued to shipbuilding creditors, how they used acquired loans and signed mortgages on the maritime good, the value and character of the guarantees provided by the Shipyard for loan insurance, in particular the mortgage on maritime goods in light of applicable maritime regulations, especially the Law on maritime good and seaports, which defines maritime goods which also includes the port as a port of special purpose. It is then an analysis of all the mortgages entered for the loans obtained that cannot be realised or of the property that represents a maritime good sale, and it is about mortgages that are worthless and non-refundable. The investigation committee was obliged to establish all the facts on how the loans received were spent, the possible outflow of money abroad and the reasons that led Shipyard into bankruptcy. We were on the basis of this decision, which is this point of decision we were looking for, collecting a whole series of necessary materials from laws and other regulations, then institutions that had the documentation that we were collecting. If I didn't tell them in order, you have it, it was dozens of different institutions, and of course we also used the possibility of calling witnesses who had knowledge of this problem. So we had a whole series of witnesses. I can only mention some. It was like Mr. Vrhnik former director and President of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac", then Mrs. Nada Braović Director of Croatian Shipbuilding "Jadranbrod" then Mrs. Sveteana Gović, former shipbuilding worker and not to list in a row, there are dozens of witnesses who have helped us with their testimony, of course with all the other documents and materials that we have collected, found and who finally, with one analysis, have finally come to this report that consists of two parts, this one large report and one summary of the report that is right here in front of me. What came out of our discussions, knowledge, the commission sublimated in its conclusions and proposals of measures. I must point out that these conclusions and proposals for measures that I will and read have been delivered by a separate opinion of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec and Mr. Vresk, which are also an integral part of this report. So let me not read this, it's too huge this all, but simply what might be most interesting to show what the Commission has found and what conclusions it has come to after six months of work. So, as the first conclusion of our Committee, it was that the Administration of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" incorrectly presented the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a real state of affairs in the case of the ship "Krak". Secondly, the Directorate of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" incorrectly and falsely informed the Government of the Republic of Croatia about the real state of society and overinvestment. Third, the Directorate of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" incorrectly informed the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it had almost resolved the financing of the second phase of the development of the "Viktor Lenac" Shipyard. Fourthly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not examined the case "Step" or consulted relevant experts. Fifthly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its ministries and professional services have not examined the basic documents related to the development of the shipyard or analysed the financial situation of the shipyard. The sixth, the government of the Republic of Croatia had to be aware of the fact that the HBOR had already approved $16.6m of credit for the development of the shipyard, representing 50% of the project's costs. Seven, the government of the Republic of Croatia had to see that the costs of "Doka 11" were more than doubled from the planned $12.1m to $26m. All of the above facts were sufficient to declare the bankruptcy of a company which was already in a financially unembarkable position. The ninth, the decision on guarantees issued is the final fruit of the political decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including decisions by resolution ministries without which approval would not be possible. 10thly, decisions of a purely political nature cannot be justified by social criteria or criteria related to the development of activity or economic development of a particular area, represent an apparent concern for employees who wish to justify politically wrong decisions that have resulted in major damages that are being offset solely by State budget funds. It is important from these conclusions to mention this second part that I had to especially emphasize here even though you have it all, but because of the public. This is the part of the report that discusses ignoring the audit reports for 2001 and 2002. In addition to the government's lack of ownership of the company and the analysis of the basic studies of the "Vicor Lenca" development project, the government and its services made a major failure to respect the audit reports for the Shipyard "Vicor Lenac". The audit reports for 2001 and 2002 also included the qualified opinion of the auditor, Price WaterhouseCoopers. If there is such an audit opinion, which literally states that it cannot be concluded that the item amounting to 167 million kuna is realistically shown, that is where the ship "Kraku" is thought of, then the entire financial picture of society changes from the foundation. Such a company does not have any credit capacity since it shows a completely uncertain arbitration dispute as an incomplete production. Ignoring the opinion of the profession represents the ultimate intricacies and incompetence of the government and its services to deal with the problems they face at the necessary level. As a result, it was not possible to make an excessive and economically justified decision on the granting of guarantees. The very opinions of the competent ministries and government decisions show the lack of an independent analytical approach without clear objectives and conclusions, as well as an analysis of possible scenarios. From the testimony of former minister of the Church, it turns out that always 1% of the guarantees given are lost to the state. This isn't about playing the case, it's about a bad approach, and it's about making it easy for taxpayers to pay money. It can be said with certainty that the decisions on the granting of guarantees, which were passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its ministries, affected suppliers and shipbuilding cooperatives to continue their co-operation by further piling up their claims. According to all this that I am not reading it for an hour now, we have it all, I am free for this initial part of the discussion to read what the Research Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament. So during the commission's work, supportive opinions were expressed regarding the interpretation of the banking secret institute. We had big problems here, because the bank experts who were invited, who had knowledge of the state of "Vicor Lenca" called for every question, generally called for the answer that it was a bank business secret, and therefore there were major problems in which we were missing, one part of the knowledge was missing so that we could create our own knowledge even better, based on it and the conclusions that we are proposing to you here today. Therefore, the Commission suggests a credible interpretation of the Bank Act. It is also proposed that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia proceed in a concrete case as stated in the State's Attorney's Office's letters of 17 November 2004 and 6 December 2004. Thirdly, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia should revise the registration of the right of ownership of maritime goods and initiate the procedure for repealing part of the description which is illegal, and thus restore ownership to the Republic of Croatia. And fourth, the entire collected documentation of the Investigation Commission to be forwarded to the competent state institutions for treatment. I therefore held that it would be most appropriate for me to meet you in this first opening part of the exhibition in which we worked and worked, which we also carried out a proposal for measures that we propose to the Croatian Parliament for consideration and probably also for adoption. There's so much to start with. As President of the Commission, I would once again like to thank all the members and members of the Committee who worked in a very good atmosphere, very correctly, although we eventually differed in conclusions assessments, but this does not lessen the fact that within six months of their work, the Commission collected a whole series of documents, materials, that we had an extraordinary atmosphere in which we could get acquainted with numerous privatisation problems in Croatia and finally and the state of Shipyard, shipbuilding in Croatia, especially in "Viktor Lenc". Mr. President, so much for the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38645	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HNS club PGS, dear colleague Kapraljevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here we received after six months of work a report from the Commission of Investigation which received certain tasks that were to be carried out in those six months and after six months they discovered a very important thing, which is when you open a red tap then from that pipe running hot water. Or more specifically, they discovered what we all are, and all the citizens in this country know that they've been systematically robbed or translated this into that systematically by their authorities through various activities, they've run out of money they've paid into the state budget. To clarify the first and biggest robbery in Croatia was conversion and privatisation, evidence of this is the find of the State Audition, through this first robbery we know how it was done and Mr Racan himself says in his report and in his defence to the commission that without political support, such activities would not be possible. At that time, we all lost our property, and the property went from our hands to someone else's. In this way there was another robbery, the banks were sucked, and then there was a recovery of these same banks, and then the citizens were robbed for the second time. The third robbery in this case is the recovery of a shipyard that is going on today. And the fourth one that's a little smaller and it's an old foreign currency savings we know the way it's been spent. There are now some sub-classes that concerned certain groups in society such as pensioners and certain groups that have been slightly more or less robbed throughout this practice. The tragedy was all done during HDZ rule, and the tragedy was even greater when the coalition came to power in 2000 and nothing was done. Or to quote Mr. Racan, he says, "We made a mistake in one of the things that after coming to power on January 3rd we haven't taken a break of 5, 6 months and audited Croatia, which the former government left us, what happened in the privatisation and why the negative rate of growth is." So we admit that we haven't done anything, and to be honest, the tragedy continues, which Mr. Sanader is renovating these same shipyards, we're still throwing taxpayers' money and we don't know why, and we don't know why because we don't have any industrial policy and we don't know what we want with these shipyards and how we want to solve this problem. In any case, it is positive to take care of workers, employees and to make sure that they have their jobs and do not rob them. However, I want to go back to this report, but before I go to this report, I would like to comment on one by one a shameful fact, and that is regardless of what is said to be legal and what has been carried out in accordance with the law, that Mr. Vrhovnik has received in one year 690 thousand dollars which he pays as a fee. My lords, we are told that we have high wages, that we are overrated, and that we are paid too much, do you know how much our salaries are? That's 250 of our salaries. That's if only I were to be paid for my 25 years as a councilman. I don't think as much as it would be, and when we turn it into his political influence and if we want to show what he could do with that money, how much of us he could buy, how much of us we could raise our hand for him, the number. If we turn that into a working salary, do you know what a tragedy is? This means that one worker with an average salary, and many work below that average salary would work 69 years for such a salary. It's a tragedy. Why did I say all this because Mr. Vrhovnik, in his address and his explanation of all this, says, the benefits via Viktor Overseas were introduced by the beginning of 96 years in order to reduce the cost of salaries because such income from abroad in the Republic of Croatia were not only paid by income tax. My lords, why in Parliament and the rest of the citizens didn't get paid through the PAR islands, and I don't know who, to avoid the contributions so that we can say what these contributions will pay us anyway and some don't pay them, it's a tragedy and he admits that they've been law-abiding. I don't know if it's a violation but it's an act. And go back to what needed to be established by the commission. The commission received certain tasks that Mr Djapic nicely listed who were the real owners of the shipyard, the reasons why state guarantees were issued, how these loans, the value and character of guarantees were used and so on, and eventually they should have said the reasons for the shipbuilding site to be bankrupt. Great, that would be great, and we got a lot of material that they worked on for six months, showed a bunch of materials they collected, picked up, a lot of people examined and what we got. We've received two reports completely different plus a third if we take Mr. Vrhnik's testimony which refutes all normally in our own way. What have we achieved? Nothing, for the simple reason that this is all that one part of the commission says the government did wrong, this other part that made the opinion disprove and said the government did the right thing. Why is that so bad? Because it turns out that the only Mr. Supreme has killed both of them and turns out he's the only one in this whole story right. And we know very well what the task was, the task was to prove why Viktor Lenac went bankrupt, this is not this report proven because there are quite different opinions of the members of the Committee. And now the citizens rightly wonder why we founded the Commission. Whether it was a political game, whether the commission did not know, was not able as Mr. Vrhovnik claims, or was it purposely done in this way to blur out and to make some case that only the citizens could irritate because they were the only ones in the whole story damaged. Do we need that, do we need that kind of game? Wouldn't it be fairer if someone came out to the public and said that you gentlemen were robbed, but we won't let you get robbed anymore? That someone should have the courage to come and tell the citizens of gentlemen the way Mr. Royce told who the pit was but he can't anymore. That's the way it should be, that kind of relationship should end. Now we need to shoot the new 800 million kunas in the shipyards. Has anyone examined whether we need it, do you agree with our industrial policy? I'm not talking about workers. Because if only what was shot at Viktor Lenac is calculated by these 55m euros, it could create 2,000 jobs if 50,000 marks are considered to be 25 thousand euros a job. So I'm not talking about workers going to the street. No way. The workers are the first to be protected. That's why this report without talking about conclusions. The conclusions are beautiful. The conclusions are merely the discovery of hot water that after six months the gentlemen in the commission discovered that there was a bank secret. Perfect. Beautiful. Great. And they suggested to the State's Attorney's office that he do his job. Great. So if they hadn't suggested that the State's Attorney's office probably wouldn't have done anything. I don't know what to say about this. At the very least, this is a disgrace to all of us. We only went to the citizens to tell them that the gentlemen kept robbing you. And that's why HSN and PGS can't possibly support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38647	Thank you, dear colleague Kapraljevic. It's my colleague Caine's turn on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go, buddy Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38648	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Just one small controversy with Mr. Kapraljevic for the $690,000 a year as much as anyone should work. However, even today in some companies, if I am not mistaken, they share the same wages. For example, in Pliva. But let's let it go now. I agree with him that it is clear to all of us that the launch of this commission has been primarily motivated, so I will say by conflict of old and new power. In 2004, the same thing that was in action earlier when just all the evils of this world were transferred from one authority to another. But let's let that people's "roof crows' eyes don't take out." Even here, nothing will happen to the actors of one of the most popular privatisations in the Republic of Croatia. Nothing happened to Kutla, nothing will happen to the Supreme. Nothing happened to the other privatisation maheres, so clearly neither will the Supreme. One word of privatisation, and so did this 92-year-old Victor Lenco, was a crime, it was turning someone into someone's own, selected an individual who was in the nomenclature of this one, one or not I know which authorities had some prominent place and began walking along the blade of the knife that eventually led to the collapse or bankruptcy of the shipyard. If Damir Vrhovnik had succeeded, had he not reinvested, had he not begun to boast, that the company had worked, he would have been celebrated today as in 2000 or 2001 when the entire former government had bowed to his business idea or had been declared manager of the year. Unfortunately, the horrors of these managers of the year in Croatia were those that then caused the huge collapse of their companies. For example, from the Privredna banka Mrs. Eterović, pa Kutle, pa Floričić Istarska banka, pa Vrhnik etc. And it is also one of the anomalies of the Croatian transition. But all those above mentioned in the bankruptcy took their companies but in bankruptcy they didn't take their families, so just some, now I'm going to talk about the Istrian examples I mentioned before. They have over-child stakes in five, six TDR companies, this, this, that, I don't know what. What am I saying? Privatisation was evil, privatisation in war was a crime against the Croatian people. Unfortunately, since that 92th time the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" was turned, 13 years have passed, and today you can only cry clearly over the fate of the shipyard and comment on how everything, the children would say, papal cat or Royce, to quote his anthological "who pitted simply" and that's it. In the end, we have a paradox that he may have felt best on his skin by himself, Mr. Djapic, that the media has ultimately been solidized with the Vrhovnik and not with the commission, and it is a tragedy. I may not have a good opinion of HSP like they don't have about IDS. Let's let it go now. But between the committee and the Supremes, I would always side with the commission. The commission on the other hand, I dare say, did one big job and did its job properly. They may be ignorant as the Supreme may say, but they're not guilty of Lance's destruction and they can't be imputed to it. The commission, I would dare say, exposes the way of conversion in Croatian. So what was a secret for 12 years today is no longer. Today we know everything about this company. We know the ways of money, we know that the value of the company was 12 million marks, we know those foreign companies, and they were, we know that Lenac pulled those 55 million dollars. Today it would be over $80 million of real value. We know that Lenac is fighting for a naked survival and God forbid that this Lenac eventually takes over an oil company that is a state-owned company that gives him a clear guarantee and that in the end the state does not privatise the Oil. This commission in my court was necessary even though the IDS did not vote for him because we were afraid of politicisation on the one hand and that this commission would further contribute to Lance's collapse. I probably wouldn't say that if I were Mr. Supreme about the commission he didn't talk about as dilettantes, etc. Diletants or not, it is the body of the Croatian Parliament and we parliamentary representatives must protect the integrity of this house. On the other hand, the Supreme has not dared to call the government because he knows that the government may have an inconvenience. It's called Parliament, the committees, because Parliament can't really hurt anyone because, to put it that way, we're a body without power. But now it's our concern that the Parliament becomes one respectable political body, both in terms of decision-making and clear and political power. To be honest with you on the other hand, under quotes, I have no one to mourn, but somehow I feel for the Supreme. Why? Because his megalomania turned him into a victim of the regime in which he led or implemented him into a transformation. If it hadn't been for him, he would have been in a different position today. You'd be a quiet man. But he wanted more and someone gave him the whole yard in 92. And what they did, for example, for entire generations in the west of Croatia, was simply fasted overnight or within 30 days as in the case of Lenca. So in 30 days, it became the owner of a shipyard in Croatia. From a social apartment like this or a jute or a hundredth, you've reached the master of the fate of thousands of people in some neighborhood. So, in '92, the shipyard was in 30 days. Now, is that the guilt of the Supreme? And yes and no. But it's also the guilt of whoever made it possible for him, regimes, authorities, etc., not to apostrophe anyone. This commission or privatisation and paradigm for all privatisations in the Republic of Croatia. They were all the same, with some succeeding, some failed. The fate of the Supreme was this second. Maybe it's materially heavy, someone would say two more lives, but apparently fate didn't want it. In one word "Lenac" is an indicative form of conversion, electors of power, banks. However, my court, and no one will be judged, that privatisation should be tried rather than the Supreme, but this is how it all fell probably into obsolescence in 92, it's all pasture, so today we can possibly talk about bankruptcy. Only maybe I resent President Djapic for not inviting strangers to testify. According to our Court of Justice at the IDS Club, he had to, it's a failure. But I'll say one more thing. "Lenac" shouldn't have gone bankrupt. That's what the IDS Club has been saying for two years and now we repeat again, "Lenac" shouldn't have gone bankrupt. Gentlemen, four Croatian shipyards: Kraljevica, May 3rd, Brodosplit, Brodotrogir, finished business in 2004 with less than cca. Of nine billion kunas, or, more specifically, 8.9 billion kuna. They are incompetent to pay, which will say insolvent, they have huge unpaid liabilities, so they are not liquid and that means they should have already ended up in bankruptcy. And finally, they're mass-using state guarantees under the law. We all know that and we keep our mouths shut. Finally, on the other hand, would one government send a shipyard into bankruptcy? You wouldn't! If she did, she'd fall right now, with these archaeological works, and the ban on public gathering and without it. Therefore, the bankruptcy in the opinion of the IDS Club should not have been opened over "Lence", "Lenac" should have been state-owned, treated as the fifth non-equity shipbuilding site and not carried out at the expense of not knowing, workers and cooperatives of some performance. Why? Because the "Lenac" could have been the easiest way out of the dubiosis. And that's the point. And this is how we ruined 500 co-operatives, 500 workers we sent to the Employment Service or... in Italy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we know that today Croatia loses 10 to 15 million dollars per ship. In Croatian shipyards, these others have 3.3 billion kunas of capital loss. To complete all ships, it is necessary to provide 3.6 billion kuna on top of the agreed amounts because the loss per ship is cca. 30%, at the agreed amount. And finally, in 2004 alone, 2.5 billion kunas of new losses were created in our four shipyards. All the happiness in Pula, according to Istria, in Croatia that the Uljanik is doing relatively well, but that is why it is intended for him perhaps far worse, it is a privatisation that we clearly condemn in the IDS Club. But on ships, on the other side of the year, 12 to 15% of the goods exports. It is between 700 and 800 million dollars, without that money and with all these losses Croatia would certainly be in another worse situation. It's just that man doesn't know what death to die from, what Mr. Kapraljevic was talking about, which was better, more smart to invest $55 million. So, the state must help Croatian shipbuilding, because it is the least of the damages, by handling that logic the least harm should have helped Lenca and, when it is not already, it should really be left to the oil. I'm sure that would be the best "Lance" scenario. And finally, the IDS Club will vote for this report, we accept this report. What the lawyer will do, none of us can or should know, but I know that it is certainly not in the House to judge anyone. Or to judge anyone, it's none of our business. The damage through the guarantees was great, but according to the IDS Club, the liquidation of Lance would be the biggest damage. And therefore, everything needs to be done to ensure that this shipyard survives, to help workers and cooperatives, finally that Rijeka, so to speak, does not lose industrial visibility, industrial character, because "Lenac" is one of the designs of the recognition of Rijeka as an industrial centre. The Supreme is certainly not important, let's say that, dare someone, he may have been himself under quotes of "sacrifice" conversion as difficult as on the other hand "Lenac" in some way victim of his megalomania although perhaps in the future I am while 11 shows that it was the right investment if this shipyard survives. All in all, we accept the report, we don't want to hurt anyone, but the citizens have been asking for 12, 13 years to tell them that their neighbors acquired social overnight, that they became millionaires overnight, and that in dollars, and that today they remained on what they were 15 years ago, or 20 years of poverty. And clearly, it's not fair that some of these acquired capital keep to themselves, no, and that others under quotes "hungry" with 1500 or 2000 kuna pensions or 1000 kuna at the Employment Office. The conversion is, once again, I dare say it was a crime, it should be said, as well as that what was possible in 92, 2005 is no longer possible. But then again, it's about that Royce guy, "He who pits, pits, and the poor are gonna be tough on God in the future!"". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38649	Thank you, Comrade Cain. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since there are less than four minutes left until the break, the new candidate on behalf of the Club would not have enough time, and we will now set a break and in 15 hours, the first order will be the respected counterpart Piploic on behalf of the HSLS Club, DC. It's the 13th 26th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38650	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session and the report of the Bureau of Investigation. For the club DC, HSLS, LS respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38651	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues! So our expectations were when this action of the investigative committee went much higher than the amount of documents and the truth about us in this material. After six months here we got one document to tell us about. I see this council is half empty. I don't know if it's any indication of interest in everything that's been documented and established here during these six months of work. I'd like to begin my presentation with one question. Today we are discussing or discussing this report and we also have in the daily press information that the issue of Lenca or Lenca in bankruptcy has been resolved or is being resolved by the fact that the Oily State Enterprise will buy in the bankruptcy of Victor Lenca, and by doing so, I am asking myself again the additional question whether it means that it will be new state guarantees that this company will be restarted in bankruptcy, retaining the number of employees and getting rid of those dubiosiss that have been identified. Where are we after six months on the basis of this investigation committee's findings? What did we find out? I don't think there's much we've learned. What we knew at the outset is now just confirmed by a series of investigative committee documents. We found out, we knew who the owner was, but we found out how the owner came into that property by one established pattern of few legal options that were, which were valid, a little play left, a little play right, a little support on the left, a little on the right. In any case, it comes from an empty pocket to the property of a company like Victor Lenac. However, we did not know any other things that I personally expected, which I believe the Croatian public also expected to find out who this name and last name was, supported the individual to come into the possession of such a company as "Viktor Lenac" and why, for which reason, which are actually real and true reasons despite all warnings, were to give such state guarantees to this company. On the basis of this report, we have learned several truths that are justified after conversations with persons who were called before an investigative committee. One found out that there were major failures and failures of the audit reports by the government and its services. We have on page ten here in large fat letters the opinion of the State Budget review for 2002 where it is said. It says the shipyard, which is in majority private foreign ownership, should not issue guarantees because it has no impact on the work and business of the shipyard, business decisions of the administration, salaries and other costs and on the other hand has a lot of problems with domestic societies or companies that are wholly or partly state-owned. So this here is an opinion of a revision that is not essentially respected. Next, what else did we find out? We learned that there was a lot of ignoring the opinion of the profession, that there was intricacies and incompetence, that there was a lack of independent analytical approach, that the taxpayers' money was made lightly, that the decisions on the granting of guarantees that were made by a hasty procedure were passed quickly by the Government and its ministries, so that it affected suppliers and shipbuilding cooperatives to continue their co-operation by further piling up their claims. Furthermore, we have learned that, apart from the bad strategic decisions of the "Vicor Lenc" Administration, when the shipyard was in crisis in its demands for HBOR and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it provided untrue and poorly explained financial information. Furthermore, we have learned the risk of approval or that the Government did not know who the actual owners of the shipyard were and the risk of granting guarantees to that ownership structure. And yet what we didn't know and now the public knows that the management without real need formed of the Shore company Victor Overseas exclusively in order to pay off its additional high wages and... bonuses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The administration, which was subsequently not allowed by the state to grant 55 million US dollars to be paid by Croatian taxpayers, etc., etc. Among the conclusions proposed by the investigating committee here, it is said that in ten conclusions there was a lot of inaccuracy, that there was fraud, that it was false. Personally, I suppose the Croatian public also wants to know who these persons are by name and last name who incorrectly presented the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the real situation, for example in the case of the Krak ship, who are those persons who have incorrectly informed the Government of the Republic of Croatia about the real situation in society and overinvestment, who have almost solved the financing of the second phase of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac", who have not examined the Krak case or consulted relevant experts, who are those persons, responsible persons in the ministries and professional services who have not examined the basic documents relating to the development of the shipyard, nor have analyzed the financial situation of the shipyards, etc. This whole effort, the six-month effort would produce results and that purpose would be fulfilled for which this commission was formed and was established because it was found that there was a public interest, to know who was with his knowledge or his ignorance, to enable his failures to create such a single robbery, such a waste of taxpayers' money. Why should I know that? We should know about this because such persons may be still in this Chamber, perhaps in today's structures of government, because such persons may appear with their knowledge and abilities in another case, thereby doing new damage to the Croatian state, new public damage, and that is what the public expects of us and I suppose she expected this investigative commission to find out who these aiders were. I don't think he would agree to blame Mr. Damir Vrhovnik here if he was the only one responsible for all this was happening. If he'd been so powerful he couldn't have come into possession himself, owned and so that he was so powerful he'd be able to free himself today to push himself into this one break-in, break down Victor Lance that all the guilt is on him. He'd certainly try to help himself now. I believe that the social interest, the interest of the Croatian public, is to find out who these professionals were who were misinformed, who were misleading. I believe that this is also the interest of the former prime minister and his government, and I believe that it is the interest of the current prime minister, the current government, I believe that it is the interest of all of us here in the Croatian Parliament to see who these great experts who have suggested this is one decision making and those decisions, their failure to pay the Croatian taxpayer. It's big money, and I could clearly manipulate these numbers, but it's still not right in this case. So I'm going to conclude my presentation with one call and everybody's appeal to find out who the names of all these people are. Otherwise a vain effort is this six-month effort. And there's one folk saying, if we don't find out the names and names of all those great experts, it's going to turn out to be "eat the donkey wolf." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38652	Thank you very much. The HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38653	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, accepts, supports the Report of the Research Commission to determine the facts relating to the state guarantees issued, the creditors of the private company Viktor Lenac d.d. Rijeka, of course, in that section that does not include isolated opinions, because it does not respond, according to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, in a fact-finding substrate established by the Research Commission in its work. Introductoryly, I would like to stress that the work of the Investigative Commission is the scope and manner of work, the way and decision-making, of course determined by the Decision establishing the Research Commission, which is fully based on the Law on the Research Commissions. I think it's important to stress this in the introduction and thus carry out a self-analysing report precisely in relation to those tasks that this House of Commons has put before the Commission of Investigation. Therefore, the Commission of Investigation was primarily obliged to determine who were the real owners of the Shipyards which were granted loans and state guarantees. That was the first assignment. And when we analyse only the report, we see that this is more than a fact, that is, we even have ways of acquiring ownership, of having a share capital in relation to ownership, or of having property owners according to underlying capital, even for years. The second task was to approve state guarantees. I think that in this short report, especially in that work, therefore, which has more than 70 pages, these reasons are to detail why state guarantees are granted, therefore, given, are presented to the Croatian Assembly. The third assignment was a way of using the loan and a description of the mortgage or the recording of the mortgage on the maritime good. As a matter of fact and legal, it is truly done in detail even in a way that the hearings as witnesses are heard. Someone here mentioned it as the defendant, not as the accused, never as the accused, but as witnesses of people who were the head of the land and book department of the Municipal Court in Rijeka, therefore, the grantines, so that we have more than precisely mentioned in the report. Like everything that applies to the value and character of guarantees issued. Of course, the Commission has also analysed all the mortgages and the way they are entered in the land book and established facts about how the funds are spent and, as it says in the decision, a possible outflow of money, therefore, abroad. The material presented clearly indicates that all the above is maximum or as much as possible during these 6 months, which we often mention as a time period, that the Commission has carried out its task and in a legal way established all the essential facts that really point to the following conclusions. These conclusions can be divided into two groups: the first ones relating to the work of the administration or the behaviour of the administration throughout this process are, therefore, the shipbuilding administrations on the one hand and since they are, as a rule, the issuing of state guarantees, of course, and the position of the Government or the resolution ministries in the observed time period. I will not list, or present all the conclusions that we have in the report, but let me quote them anyway, because it seems particularly important to me when we talk about the content itself or the most important part of the contents of this Report. As for the Government, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had indeed to be aware during the time observed that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development had then been granted the amount of $16.6 million, a credit for the development of the shipyard, which was in fact 50% over the cost of the entire project at that time. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also saw the fact because it had to see that the costs related to the while 11 were doubled, even more than doubled from the planned $12.1 million, so US dollars to 26. All of these facts would be sufficient to declare the bankruptcy of a company which was, then, at the very moment especially these latest guarantees were indeed in, perhaps too difficult to show financially indisputable position, but one financial situation that should of course also consider launching a bankruptcy procedure. The decisions and this is justified by much of the state audit which, of course, analysed and termnologically all the decisions that followed and related to the guarantees issued, therefore, I would dare say that this part of the conclusion actually applies, directly to the findings of the state audit and what is literally quoted in the report. So that the decisions themselves, so the government's decisions are either mostly or exclusively political. And I can hardly justify myself by social criteria. Nor do the criteria related to the development, development of activities, hence, shipbuilding activities, the economic development of a particular area and represent only one part or an apparent concern for employees who wish to justify politically wrong decisions that have resulted in major damages that are being settled solely by means of the state budget. On the other hand, when we analyse the proposed conclusions from the position of the shipbuilding office, the shipyards as a shareholder society, of course, and there is also Mr. Piploić was just before asking questions that are human beings, so it is well known what people are in terms of presented conclusions when it is said that the management of the Shipyard Viktor Lenac incorrectly presented to the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a real situation, but when we talk about the case of the Krak ship, therefore, management, management. And indeed what the administration presented, I think, presented as an argument that there would be a decision to issue guarantees, not only incorrectly but in those key parts, means that the crucial part of whether or not a guarantee would be granted, these data were indeed not precisely presented, were incorrectly presented to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And we have the same situation when it comes to information, not just government, but the public about the real situation in society and overinvestment. Therefore, when both conclusions are analysed, the conclusions relating to both the behaviour and the functioning of the administration, but also to the position, opinion, reflection and decision-making of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the fact-finding substrate itself and everything that is written in this report, are obviously that these conclusions absolutely reflect, therefore, or reflect this fact-finding substrate established by the Commission on the basis of 6-month work. Therefore, state guarantees are not approved by the basis of necessary economic and financial analyses but are ultimately the fruit of the political decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The very decisions on the guarantees issued are mostly part of the political nature, and when we do a comprehensive analysis, they really cannot be justified by social criteria. This is what we support and here we have on page 13, mainly on page 14, where the report itself is quoted, literally quoted parts of the State Audit report that point to just these conclusions. Not to read them, I will read only one, which refers to everything we have heard, or read in separate opinions, which refers to legality, so whether decisions have been made in accordance with the law or in accordance with a specific decision on the criteria for granting state guarantees. So here's that quote we have on page 14 at the very top and the letters of fat are written. The procedure for granting guarantees has been implemented in accordance with the provisions of Article 35. The law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, but does not fully comply with the provisions of the decision on the criteria for granting State guarantees, as the shipyard has been operating with loss, private property and does not belong to a group of legal entities which are primarily guaranteed. It has large unsettled obligations towards suppliers and owes before the guarantees issued to the state budget, which, according to the criteria set out in the decision, should affect the non-guarantee. So this is a quote from the State Audit report, and it clearly fits into everything that the Research Commission has effectively established not only by studying documents but also by hearing witnesses' statements and all of those materials which were therefore available to the Research Commission in order to propose these conclusions to the Croatian Assembly. And finally, of course, the basis of the Decision establishing, and also the basis of the law, the Commission was obliged to propose concrete measures to the Croatian Parliament, and they were given and proposed, and I think that they really should be supported, and I am not going to talk about the extent that was proposed in more detail, which is also proposed and related to the banking secret, because the banking secret as a legal institute in light of how it is prescribed by special laws, and of course when we analyzed and wanted to analyse money flows and not only in the context of the Republic of Croatia but also to offshore companies or companies that are registered abroad, it is obvious and this is visible from the report itself, that they represented a huge obstacle to the Commission, because simply to those facts, of course, by interpreting the banking secret institutes based them in terms of the specific rules of the work of the Research Commission, we could not have come to these facts. However, the proposal that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, or not binding, does not really commit itself, because we had even had the opportunity to hear such comments that as the Investigation Commission is now imposing something on the State's Attorney's Office, absolutely not. The proposal is quite different, therefore, that it is proposed that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia continue to act in a concrete matter, as stated in the State's Attorney's Office's letters of 17 November 2004 and since 16 December 2004, and you have these documents as State's Attorney's office at the end of this report. We continue to support the state, of course, this proposal also measures to ensure that the Croatian State Attorney's Office is also required to revise the registration of ownership rights on the maritime good and to initiate the procedure for repealing part of the enrolment which is illegal, and thus to restore ownership of the Republic of Croatia. This part, of course, refers to the work of the State Attorney's Office which should therefore protect the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in those segments when it occurred and of course when it comes to obtaining ownership rights on maritime goods, and we all know that, by our regulations and by the nature of things, that is to say, maritime good is a matter or property outside of traffic, in the sense that property rights can be acquired in particular ownership rights in this procedure or in the way it is presented in the report itself. In the end or the last proposed measure that we are absolutely considering in the Croatian Democratic Community club that should be supported and we do not doubt that the Croatian Parliament will support it. The total collected documentation of the Research Commission should be forwarded, so it should be forwarded to the competent state institutions because it is indeed a lot of documentation that should be sent to the institutions, the competent state institutions, of course, according to their judgment in terms of follow-up itself. Finally and finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club, proposes to support this report in this form to be presented and accepted in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38654	Thank you very much. For the club HSS, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38655	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, it's unfortunate to tell my colleague Tomljanović and me, and also about my colleague Djapic about the work of the Investigative Commission, that is, this report, because we ourselves were members of the Investigative Commission, but a few things may not be written here simply need to be said. First of all, it is true that the Croatian Parliament established its decision The Commission of Investigation and I must say that I was already amazed by the tasks put before the Commission of Investigation, so I will start from the beginning. Conclusion number one, who are the real owners of the "Vicor Lenac" Shipyard? Maybe, well, it's going to look strange to you, but it wasn't really crucial to me. The Commission of Investigation very quickly and very slowly discovered who the real owners of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" wrote in this report, but it was not crucial for the work of the Research Commission to own the shipyard. I'll explain later why I said that. Conclusion number two. The reasons why state guarantees were issued to creditors. That seems to me to be the one and only important reason why the Bureau of Investigation was working and in my court was the only reason that was to be determined. It is intended to say whether anyone from the former government has favored "Vicor Lenc" in obtaining guarantees because of some friendly links between the owners of "Vicor Lenco" and certain people who were then members of the government. From this pay phone, I'm going to be very responsible to say that it wasn't like that. It is not the only guarantee issued by the former government and not the "Viktor Lenac" only shipyard to which the former government has issued guarantees. The reasons why the former government was managed and all the former governments still wanted to say that they were economic... The first thing I want to say is that we were all aware then, and today we are aware of the state of shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, this former government as it was and everyone before it was particularly concerned about shipbuilding. [[You don't understand.]] I don't think it's necessary to explain specifically why it's about shipbuilding. Victor Lenac then needed guarantees and I claim that the government did well to assess that he needed to be granted a state guarantee and did so. Number 3, analysis of all recorded mortgages. Of course, there's something I want to say about that too. And number four. The Commission is obliged to establish all facts on how the funds are spent. It seems to me that it would first and foremost fall under the control of the owner, as the management of a particular company does, so here in the stock company. What may be more important than all that is a few principles. First of all, the principle question was that the Croatian Peasant Party and its Club had asked themselves so many investigative committees, which is why such hyper production of investigative commissions in the Croatian Parliament. We all knew that, in a particular case, it was something that was not yet a criminal procedure, but the State Attorney's Office within its jurisdiction and the Criminal Procedure Act had taken certain actions against some members of the management of Viktor Lenac Shipyard and it seemed to me that it was not at least necessary to indicate that this same job was being done by the investigating commission. There really wasn't that need. In the end, the very conclusions of the investigative committee that the HSS Club agrees with, which is one of these conclusions, that the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia must continue to do that job which must otherwise be done under the Criminal Procedure Act, I hope that this is not disputed. What may be a more important question, we have all concentrated here on one fact that a private shipyard has been issued a state guarantee, and then we all took the criterion that it is private that the state should not issue guarantees but simply that the state should issue guarantees only to companies owned or owned by the Republic of Croatia, I do not understand why it would be so, I really do not understand it. I think that the criterion should be a criterion of economic nature, that the state should issue guarantees to that company that has a programme, which has primarily an export programme that has a good programme and that deals with production. I think these would be the most important criteria for issuing state guarantees. That standard of state, I don't think it's some kind of economic criterion in private. Of course, every government she's done and this one, that guarantee when she's giving to a particular shipbuilding company under special conditions, under special conditions, but the very difference between private and state, I don't know why it should be important. Secondly, what has plagued us all, which has been pointed out several times in this Assembly as much as the guarantees have actually been issued since the 1990s here or since 91s, or I don't know what year it was necessary to establish such a fact if we were already hunting for guarantees issued by the Republic of Croatia, or all of its governments. It seems to me that there would be some very strange data as to how many state guarantees were issued to companies that are either private or state-owned. What is important is how many state guarantees were issued to non-production companies, how many state guarantees were issued to companies that were either ahead of bankruptcy or who referred to all the facts that would be found in the bankruptcy process and the most important fact that these state guarantees were actually paid out of their register by the State's protests. So it was supposed to be condescending to look at all these facts. And then in the end, I really need to say something about the marine good. It was one of the tasks of this investigation committee. You know, indeed, with all the amendments to the legislative regulation that regulates this area and with all the amendments to the Law on Land Books, I must say responsibly here as a man who is rightly a little bit and engaged in a maritime well-being based on the decision of the competent authority by enrolling in the land books. It's only then that someone good becomes a seamen's good. If anyone knew, had to know or didn't know, that's another question now. It seems to me that the same land was not listed in the land books as a maritime good, whether it was only by a decision that acquired the character of the maritime good that would be discussed but I will not draw any conclusions here. It is difficult to determine that this was indeed in view of both conditions that must be cumulatively met for marine good. But why did I point this out as a principle question? My colleagues and colleagues, if we were to look at all the things made on the maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia, from private-owned houses, various business spaces, not to mention several companies owned by the Republic of Croatia that were built whole on the maritime good, I will only start with the ACI. If you look at how much these companies are in charge and how many mortgages are listed on something called maritime well-being, so what's past the traffic, which is outside of ownership, then I think the problem is much wider than Victor Lenco's problem. And that's what I wanted to say about the marine good. In the end, I want to repeat what might be most important. In my opinion, the key task of this investigation committee was only one, if anyone from the government had been able to please Victor Lentz in obtaining a state guarantee. I'm sure it's not, and I'm very responsible for saying that no one thought that for that reason at all favors Viktor Lentz, the reasons were some other, the reasons for economic nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38656	Thank you very much. For the SDP Club, respected representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38657	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, first of all, I would like to stress that the SDP recorded facts about the privatisation gap, the privatisation malversion I would say personal interests in privatisation, unfortunately Croatia's practice in privatisation does not support, condemn and even try to sanction this Assembly back in such proceedings. Therefore, the SDP Club does not accept it the Croatian way of privatisation, which is also the way of Mr. Vrhovnik in Viktor Lenc. The SDP also condemns the one-off payouts paid whether from the profit of the company whether I would say redistributions within the incomes of a company, and hence the huge payments of managers in Viktor Lenc, and also from Vrhnik himself. For the reasons that those who have decided to secretly pay their salary results rather than to give them up for development and share them with workers who have achieved such results, and SDP does not support such things and events in Lenco. Also, the SDP, which has always advocated the protection of the maritime goods of all events but not only in Lenco, which resulted in the registration of ownership on the part of the maritime goods, which the enrolment considers to be necessary and that the State's Attorney's Office should do its part of the work, that it should be governed by laws, but I would also say by decisions on maritime good to resolve certain dilemmas. And that's also our opinion and that's what kind of example Lenca points us to. But we also want to make it very clear that the issue of conversion and privatisation and the issue of salary payments through foreign companies, and what concerns ownership books on maritime goods in Viktor Lenco, happened by 1998. I repeat, by 1998, the SDP concluded that it was written in the findings of this commission, until 1998, I will keep mentioning it, and we condemn such behaviour. But now the question arises: "Viktor Lenac Shipyard", a thousand employees in 2001, are entering a crisis. Should the government then intervene and whether a thousand fates, a thousand employees and a thousand fates in cooperative companies should be the problem of the government or not. It's a dilemma set in front of the SDP Club. And we're assessing that the government's job was to engage in a solution to the crisis at Victor Lentz. We also estimate that Vrhovnik and his team were unable to handle the crisis situation from 2001 to 2003 and did not show the ability of a great manager who had even won a prize in solving the crisis situation. The SDP also assesses the irresponsible behaviour of the owner because they continued to invest, did not assess the incompetent management and tried to influence the government to solve the investment problem that burdened the Shipyard Shipyard Shipyard "Vicor Lenac". Yes, we estimate that both management and owners were irresponsible but we still believe that the government was to intervene. And, of course, before I move on to the self-explanation of the report that the SDP Club has asked itself, is the Vrhnik "Viktor Lenac", whether the Vrhnik is a thousand employees at Victor Lenco, whether the private firm has the right to intervene in a crisis situation. Our answers were very clear. Vrhnik was never "Viktor Lenac", never Vrhnik was a thousand employees in "Viktor Lenac" and under the laws of the Republic of Croatia, according to the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a private company is not a company that has no right to intervene in the Croatian government. And now two words on behalf of the club and the report itself. What does this report show? Well, I'd say the political situation in this Croatian Parliament. It shows we've been working on the report for six months. Finally we get a report in which we see political practice in Croatia. The conflict between the Proposer and the Proposer's spokesman. Mr. Glavas was not a proposing but was a spokeswoman who did not even sign the report after six months of work and so brilliant findings spokeswoman did not want to sign the final report. And we have a political division of those who are trying to say there's responsibility. You wouldn't even say that. He's guilty of being unprofessional, unable to read documents, ignorant, deceived by an ordinary manager and those who try to explain differently the findings that are here. Therefore, the finding in which we have two completely different approaches and I would say one refusal to sign this document. Unfortunately, the political situation in Croatia conflicts, burdens citizens with our conflicts and we do not know how to send them a message. In this report, unfortunately, I do not see that we will send the citizens of Croatia a certain message, and that is about the position of our club. Now let's get back to the basics. What has the Parliament given as a commission task? First, to determine the real owners, and that's where we differ in thought. This summary particularly highlights ownership events until 1999 but the Parliament has given the order to establish the ownership structure at the time of the guarantee approval. And she's undeniable. It is not listed in this summary but is also listed in the State Audit and State Audit Report. The majority owners were IFS, Raiffeisen, DEG and the Zakelo family company. These were the majority owners at the time of providing loans and guarantees to the Republic of Croatia. But no. We're trying to say it's non-transparent property. For a listed company where the stock market confirms the transparency of ownership, we also have a very clear document on the State Audit. The acquisition of ownership until 1999 is non-transparent, no one disputes. But the task where I thought the commission should have made it clear to us in the Assembly at the time of the insurance of the funds was known to the owners. They were mostly foreign companies. It could be said, and the method of acquisition was not regulated because we agree. We don't agree with the way they were converted and privatized, but the owners knew each other and the government knew who the owners were. Also, what are the reasons why they were approved. And that's where we won't agree. That's why we have different views of the members of the committee. Some consider the reasons for the approvals are the intricacies of the government, incompetence of the government, deception by the administration. Others see the crisis as a crisis situation in Victor Lentz, an unequivocal crisis situation. We also have submitted documents that spoke about the continuous negotiations of creditors and owners with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the crisis situation in Lenco and the problem of resolving the crisis situation. And of course, that question remains the approval of those funds. Was it meant to be? We also have the answers to the audit. It was a dedicated use of funds. And, by the way, a separate opinion points to that. Yes, gentlemen, legal guarantees have been given so that workers can have jobs in Lenco, financial guarantees have been given and even a guarantee was given in 12 months 2003 that ensured the payment of workers for back salaries and severances for 350 workers who had to leave Lenac because the new construction investment had failed. True, the commission estimates that this is not a social moment, nor a development moment, does not indicate in these conclusions, which is the moment, only says political. And we agree, the government's decision was political because in times of crisis, at risk, she spent taxpayers' money but some believe it was a cause for development and social development and others don't. They just want to say no, it wasn't that, but they don't want to say what the reason was. We don't see that from those reports. Therefore, this is unfortunately what we can read from these I would say the difference in approach to issues that have been given by the Parliament as a commission task. And anyway, I think maybe the hardest thing to do is to read this report that we don't want to agree with because it's an attempt to say that even a part of the funds has been transferred abroad, and that's why it's a story about Overseas because it's obvious that the issue of high payout was 96 years where it's obvious that the gentlemen from the Lenca administration took the money they didn't share with the workers and didn't think about the development of Lenca at the time. But the money that's been given in times of crisis, according to the audit findings, it's evident that they've been spent on purpose. That's how it's found. So why do we have this double access to the document that's in front of us? Why don't you mention the dates, not saying about, I'd say very clear data we don't share what was until 99th in Lentz and behavior in conversion, privatisation and I'd say personal wealth and whether or not we should intervened in Lenca because of the crisis situation after 2001. Now on behalf of the club finals on Victor Lentz. Yes, we showed our behaviour in the Republic of Croatia, political accounts in the first place. And now with this report we're doing it again. And I'm asking if we're interested in working in Victor Lentz. For a year and a half, we don't have an answer for what will be a redecorating worker. And what showed us the bankruptcy of Victor Lance? The bankruptcy has shown that Viktor Lenac is primarily a remounted shipyard. A shipyard that needs Croatian shipyards dealing with new construction. Without them, new construction can't. He can't. Or he can, but he'll do repairs in Italy and Montenegro. And we don't want a reshuffle for a year and a half. And that remont is 550 employees. And yet another thing like Croatian citizens sent him a message. We're alleging guilt for this except the Supremes and the members of the administration have owners. And what's the name of those owners of IFC, DEK, Raiffeisen, respectable houses, bankers. And who is making the most of the riots in Croatia for Viktor Lenac at the moment? Who makes it impossible for the government and I would say the Oilman in a reshuffle? Those strangers, those owners! And so many documents in which they begged the government to save investments. So many letters, so many of their messages that they need to be inside, and now without any remorse, they'd run away from the project and try to take the crumbs they had left. And what are we texting them? It's not your fault! That's what we send in this document. It's the government that was fond of its SDP favorite, they're guilty and incompetent and stupid officials who wrote, the government's been deceived, and nowhere is the guilt of the real owners. And we allow them to prove in court that they're not guilty of the situation in Lenco, so they're not responsible for it's the government, that's what we're writing here. What are we Croatian citizens telling these foreigners? Don't be afraid, for personal account purposes, for political purposes, for the sake of winning, I'd say certain affections, we'll do everything we can to get you out and not to answer for your mistakes. That's what the SDP Club most... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38658	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38659	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleague Linic spoke of numerous malversions in conversion, privatisation said the following. I quote: "The SDP does not accept the Croatian way of privatisation.". That's just not true. The privatisation law remained from 92, 93, when unchanged. And as far as its application is concerned, you have often said about the Law itself that it is criminal and that in some ways it generates malversions etc., however, malversions which were in the 1990s, unfortunately, they continue for the time of the former government and we can speak when there were more or less, but for them it certainly needs to bear responsibility, individuals who did. However, not only have you solved the problems of the '90s but you have also, in some way, channeled through bankruptcy, etc., targeted privatisation, yet multiple this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38660	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38661	Mr. President, I will correct the incorrect claim by my colleague Linic that the SDP Club does not support the Croatian way of privatisation as well as the sharing of enormous salaries of management and management in Viktor Lenc. This inaccuracy disproves the days of guarantees by these SDP Governments for loans from which the pockets of administration and management with your prior approval or mutual benefit were filled instead of the consolidation of shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38662	Dear Representative Marko Bekavac, Third Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38663	I'm going to correct the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague who claimed that the government was being deceived by an incompetent manager. The Supreme has not been incompetent but you have been unable to give him that much money from the budget for the private shipyard without any effect of the economic account. So, you were incompetent and in vain your demagogue performance to convince the Croatian public that it was exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38664	And Ivo Loncar rectification of an incorrect quote, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38665	Mr. Linic said, quote: "The loss of Viktor Lenc has shown that the Shipyard is a Victor Lenac first of all a remont company.", finished quote. That's completely incorrect! The bankruptcy of Viktor Lenca as well as this Investigative Commission has shown and has shown the Commission that in this company, an unprecedented crime took place at the Shipyard with the support of the then coalition government, which was the vice president of Mr. Slavko Linic. Then the indiscipline of the government proved something else, which was that the coalition government to whom Slavko Linic was vice president, proved something else that the coalition government to whom Mr. Slavko Linic was giving money at the Shipyard Viktor Lenac as in a bottomless bag with very dubious arguments. That's what the bankruptcy showed, and that's what this investigation committee showed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38666	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38667	I refer to the 206th article of the Rules of Procedure which says that the session of the Assembly is chaired by the President of the Parliament and the 32nd article which says that the President of the Parliament is concerned about the process of passing laws and other acts. We're now making some kind of act that's probably going to be some sort of conclusion. This act must be adopted by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament clearly define what is the correction of the wrong allegation. In two cases, there is no correction to the allegations, but a debate is being held. There'll be time for the debate, everyone could apply. Take the session! Take the meeting according to the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38668	Col. Stazic, claims that were disputed as incorrect, are a matter of evaluation of MPs who determined that some claims and factual allegations were incorrect and that is a correction of the incorrect allegations, that is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Someone doesn't have to agree with that, someone can get along, but the MP has a right and feels that something incorrect has been put out and he's incorrectly disputing it. It is, so there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on to the esteemed representative... Please, no more colleagues! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I said there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because if, if it was, the objection was directed at me, that I had hurt the Rules of Procedure because I had not warned and prevented two MPs who were correcting the incorrect allegations. I'm saying I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38671	Col. Stazić injured Article 214 paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 and Rules 209. Because I first quoted what Mr. Slavko Linic said and then explained what he said the way I said it. So I did nothing to hurt the Rules of Procedure but hurt my friend Nasha Stazic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38672	Okay. Very good. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. 15.37 timed out for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38673	Thank you, Mr. President. The fate of state shipyards is decided by a policy where not only the profitability is crucial but also the employment of workers, the accompanying industry and crafts, respect for more signed contracts and so on. When it comes to a privatised shipyard that is still in majority ownership of foreign capital, then they cannot be equal criteria. The investigation committee was given a mandate to investigate just the absurdity of the decisions of the former coalition government, which privatised the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" bountifully and without criteria donated to state guarantees, simplifiedly donated state money to the shipyard conscious of bankruptcy. The then state officials today also try to leave as soon as possible to forget all the benefits that privileged companies owned by officials, godfathers, relatives and friends. Dear MPs and representatives of the SDP and other coalition parties who acted as authorities during the previous period that you so closely follow all the details of the decisions, promises and behaviours of today's government you kept silent when the Government of Ivica Racan was throwing state money when the criterion was godfathership and party membership. I'm sure you haven't all stepped on the Supreme yacht, but you've been on it all summer through your delegates, prime ministers and elected ministers. At the same time, a report on the State budget audit for 2002 may have been discussed and you have not read the opinion given. The shipbuilding site, which is in majority private foreign ownership, should not issue guarantees because it has no impact on the work and business of the shipyard, business decisions of the administration, wages and other costs, and on the other hand has a lot of problems with domestic societies or companies that are wholly or partly state-owned. But the audit didn't know what you knew, which is that there wasn't much of the majority foreign ownership in Lentz and that exactly, and that she had no little influence on governance, finally what godmothership was for. The change of the Kraka ship swallows 22m euros in the Privredna and Raiffeisen banka is happy to give 11m euros each, and how could it not if the guarantee is given by the state. Since the same ship does not need re-changes, a new formula for withdrawing state guarantees has been found. The loan guarantee for the financing of phase II of the shipbuilding site shall be sought. This time it's 16 million euros. The finance ministry takes the opinion of the man from the yacht, the economy minister on the eligibility of investments, and the same day gives the government the consent to grant guarantees. The quality of the credit return was not even spoken of that same day. The shipyard operates with loss, has large unsettled losses to suppliers and owes from before the guarantees issued to the state budget and is privately owned. HABOR gives 16 million euros, an effect miserable. Guarantees for new construction are being set up 130, as they are already called,... and a new construction of 131 two months before the bankruptcy of 8 million euros, people say to the owner. Guarantee isn't even public maritime good this time. And finally the bankruptcy opened on 8 December 2003 just before the departure of the former government from the Ban Courts, and it seems to me to me from the press and from the master's yacht. I quote the commission: "The state guarantees are not approved by the basis of necessary economic and financial analyses, but are ultimately the fruit of the political decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including the decision of the restoring ministers without which the approval of guarantees would not be possible. And finally today we heard a colleague, Kapraljevic, saying when you open a red pipe, there's hot water running, so it could be paraphrased, when you open a red pipe, the state's money flows into red pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38674	We have one replica, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38675	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are always back on the basic subject and we will have opportunities to hear today about what the good part of my colleagues wants to say Lenac is the Supreme, or the reverse wants to say a thousand workers should be punished for having a Supreme, a thousand workers should be punished for being a top SDP member. That they should be punished for not being helped, they must not be helped. The fate of the company, the Croatian company in which thousands of workers work, in which thousands of cooperatives do not need to be helped, are messages. You have the right to these messages, the citizens hear them, they understand them. But I repeat again, I believe that a thousand workers need to be dealt with by the government and there are governments and people who will solve them. What's the basics? What did this report show? Each kuna was spent on purpose, spent on shipbuilding works, spent on paying workers, spent on paying co-operatives. The money remained for those who worked at Lance. It's also a message to this committee, it's a message and all the findings of the State Audit. And then there's the answer. If you help in this way you still have a responsibility because money was spent and the company failed to save itself. But there was no accidental spending, nor was "Lenac" Mr. Vrhovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38676	Thank you very much. Mr. Markovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38677	Thank you. It's normal we're all sensitive to hiring workers. But the question is, could they pay workers for a long time with that money? Where that money ended that audit must know and it showed up here. But what's controversial in everything is the same, as much as there is actually material embedded in the ships, is it really about protecting the domestic industry because it was one of the allegations why this was financed further, so one day the analysis will probably show very precisely that all of this was not there. So we're always for workers, I agree, but we don't need to throw money there when we see that something's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38678	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38679	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that we're one people, actually, that's what statistics say, which is easily in charge, which easily likes to issue guarantees. And I actually know in my practice, here in my office a lot of people went by and asked for really protection and advice. People were simply guaranteeing someone who took the loan. And when we talked about how it happened, it actually came from friendship, family ties, godmothers and such things, and no one realized in fact that the guarantee was one serious business, that the guarantee was a serious mandatory legal relationship. And if we get into a guarantee, we need to look at all the facts, all the circumstances under which we enter into such a mandatory relationship, and we need to look at all the consequences that can happen. And I was even inclined to do well and educate people actually to explain to them what that guarantee was. Because I don't know how many people in Croatia are sitting on their salaries, selling their houses, selling them apartments because they're returning someone else's loans. Now that we look at this report, it seems to me that our government gave these guarantees quite lightly at the time. I appreciate all that my colleague Linic said that in the first place she was actually caring and caring for the workers I really appreciate it. But I think the evaluations were bad, and I think the evaluations were supposed to be much better to get into something like that. counterpart Linic himself said that "Lenac" is not Vrhnik, that Vrhnik was unable to perform with his managers from the "Lenac" crisis that he was. But I think that should have been before actually making those decisions on guarantees that it should have been seen. That a more serious analysis of the business should be made, that more serious audit houses should be hired to obtain these data. Because what you said about this "oversiz" where you're talking about $9,000 salary, where you're talking about $690,000 paid a year which-what bonuses and all that, to refer to period 96. - 98, I think the government should have considered and seen who they were negotiating with. Who's she negotiating with? She negotiated with such a manager who had done business in such a way, and already on that step we could conclude that it was not a real negotiating partner. Let's go, okay. Let's go help the workers and let's give guarantees, but if this is such a management that during the 1990s 690 thousand dollars put in her pocket then let's at least say the basic thing, let's change management, let's find a capable management that will smartly use those guarantees and that's what I think most of the words in this report here. This report answered those questions that were asked him and I don't understand him and I don't think we should be making such a big political problem out of it. I think we need to learn from this report and all of those lessons, and this government and all of those future governments that will come when they enter into these relationship guarantees that they have to think much better of things as eventually, and individuals of whom many die in that story. And that's why there's really no more to add here, everything's said in that thing. But one thing, I think you should think a lot better than you got into these contractual relationship guarantees, because there's one fact here that actually stings your eyes, which is that the guarantees of the day are the opposite of the decision on the criteria for giving guarantees. So that decision on the criteria for giving guarantees I think the government itself has made and prescribed to whom it can give and in which procedure it can give and if the guarantees are given contrary to such a decision then it is also wrong. And that's why I think it really takes every future government to actually have this report in front of them and to see that it takes a lot better to look at all the facts and all the consequences that can arise when someone guarantees that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38680	Thank you. There is one replica, Mr. Slavo Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38681	I would just like to draw attention to my colleagues that unfortunately he couldn't read this in the report, and I expected very clear views, documents that some of us presented to the Committee that the government only negotiated with the IFC as a representative of most owners because the IFC represents itself both DEG and Raiffaisen and the house Zakelo. They were partners of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In a series of meetings, written correspondence, and meetings held by New York, Washington and Zagreb. Which means the government has been betraying the owners, the government has been negotiating with Mr. Vrhovnik. Mr. Vrhnik only made official requests as chairman of the administration to both HBOR and certain ministries. The documents on the negotiations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, letters, suggestions, everything else, have the Commission, why you do not want to comment on them. I don't want to comment. Therefore, the government chose its own counterpart and had it for two years because the crisis itself lasted so long as "Vicor Lenca" itself, therefore these are facts. But maybe one more thing. You know, there is no difference in the guarantees given to "Lance" and to those given by our government "Vartex", "Chakovchanki" or if it happens to work tomorrow "Zeljezara Sisak" and I hope, the government will have to give guarantees again. You know, try to say which ones are to elaborate to make sure it works, but you should, because there are 1500 workers in "Sisak Irons" and you have to fight for them and that's the government's job. So, basically, does the government have any elaborates? There is. But he also has a political decision. He's got political responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38682	Thank you. Mr. Bosnjakovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38683	I appreciate all that you've said, but this kind of thing isn't enough just talking to the owners, it's not even enough to talk to the government, I think the government here has to have an independent strong, strong auditory house that will actually, independently, because the owner has an interest in, of course, guaranteeing him that. The administration also has an interest in guaranteeing her to continue her business. But some independent qualified auditory house, it's qualified to actually give us whether this job is worth it or not, because it's not just politics, it's actually a very important economic business. Of course, this applies to both this government and those future governments that will enter into this kind of relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38684	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Slavko Linic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38685	Now allow me both a little personal and personal discussion on this subject. I'll start by saying that I sat in these benches a lot when on behalf of the proposed round, Mr. Glavas accused of being a thief, that I was in the sacks of money from Croatia, that I was a robber, that we stole Croatia's state, that we were working for foreigners, that I was a terrorist who terrorized by the judiciary, who blackmailed judges, and that I didn't list. Yes, I've been standing silent and putting up with you on behalf of the individual promoters of the 9th performance of Mr. Glavas on behalf of your promoter. The truth was in front of the cameras, because it was fun. Now this isn't in front of the cameras at 3 o'clock even though the broadcast was announced...... It's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, it's not. I'm just trying to tell you how we performed. What did we want? Politically accounting. But I see today's debate is not interesting, the report needs to be pushed, the problem report is, what a little bothers you in this report, and I believe you colleagues too is mixing the facts you know. The State's audit clearly says there are no abuses purposely spent, and there's paid wages. And it even seems to me to be a colleague of Tomljanović, right, because he said about the salaries was taken abroad. But of what? From what? Are you from state guarantees? No, I don't. Because in '96, there were no state guarantees. And that's exactly the timing I'd say the fact that in us, in the documents, especially the conclusions shows that we don't care to just try to really figure out where these problems are in the guarantees. Where are your problems? That's what's important. And you see even if you remember Mr. Glavas himself accused me, this commission is only because of Linic because he said he was guilty. I say today that I feel guilty, a lot of the state's money spent on "Lenac" and it didn't work out. Yeah, wrong. And apparently, maybe the bankruptcy should have been opened earlier. It should've been open before. And that's the fault. But gentlemen, we're talking about vulgar accusations. We're talking about the disqualifications we've heard about this speaker. That's what we're talking about. Was it a fact for us that we were trying to help any member of the government tomorrow how they would behave? Where is the problem of real economy, real facts and political responsibilities at a time when you have too many unemployed at the Institute and at a time when you see that workers are not guilty of the fate of failure in a commercial society? Yeah, that's the problem. If the Parliament had been able to find answers in that section and send those answers to the current government, we could tell the future government we're happy with our work. But with this report, we don't send that message. We're really not sending her. Because we haven't found out again whether "Lance" should have helped, until when and when it should have stopped? We haven't compared Lenac to any other state guarantee cases. With the others. And we got the information from the Croatian government. Every member of the Parliament has won. Every one of us. We could take a look. We could have compared it. And we could try to figure that out. Because it is evident that the Commission now finds that there are hardly any abuses in the government regarding the use of funds and the approval of funds. The question remains when was it supposed to stop? So maybe two words and about that "Lance" bankruptcy that we often mention. The Croatian government could never make a decision on the bankruptcy of Lenca, the Croatian government was neither the owner nor the management structure. Croatia was not even a believer with a valid claim. We weren't that either. We've never had a chance to launch a bankruptcy procedure in time. No, I don't. It depended on management and owners who refused to admit failure, refused to admit defeat. But only when the process of production was no longer in place, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia said "if the believers and owners don't go," we don't go either." There were no more regular payouts at the time. There was no money at the time to take care of the extra workers. At that moment, the Director decided to open the bankruptcy procedure and submitted a request for the opening of the bankruptcy. Not the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it had no elements for it, but the government negotiated in 2003 for six months. Negotiated with financiers and owners whether they would enter into the consolidation of "Lance". When all the answers were no, except for the "Hypoferainza" that he thought the project could still be saved, the government also left the project at the same time. And of course what happened happened. I believe that even the decision on bankruptcy shows that it was good and good luck that the president of the administration filed for bankruptcy. If it hadn't been for that, 350 workers would never have received severance and the process of working in "Viktor Lenca" would have been continued. It wouldn't have been continued. Because they'd ask for their claims. Not even a three-month salary deficit would be paid without talking about future salaries. The process of work without bankruptcy in Lenco would not be continued. And what's most important is the difference between Lance and other shipyards? Which is the basic activity there remont. People can make money for themselves. They sell their work. It's not an investment in a new ship. It's a sales life of work. And yes, when the bankruptcy was opened, they could have earned their wages. And the hardest thing in this assembly was when your colleague Glavas yelled from this pay phone: "Bahati people from the former government. Even at the 12th month when they had already lost the election, they were making money." And these money was given according to the findings and in your document that you have now received from the Committee for Salary and Compensation of Workers. For wages and severances so that 550 people would normally live and work. And since the 12th month when the bankruptcy procedure in Lenco is open, we have no problem anymore. Remont activity... Problem creates who? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just ex-owners. Just ex-owners. And instead of us and the Croatian government using documents to deal with former owners who have no right to any kuna, not to sell the property "Viktor Lenca". Not for a single kuna. And we're dealing with irresponsible owners who are guilty. Because they decided to invest. And to make them still have everything they have invested to stay for a new remounted shipyard and to own the one who will decide the Croatian government because it gave the most for "Lenac" we are not helping either. We're not helping here either. No, I don't. We'll fight politically again. We will again only try to politically degrade individual participants in the processes. And the real culprits? And they will try to charge from one rotten dock, old dock and that last kuna not to leave it in Croatia. And we'll help them with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38686	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First it's Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38687	Mr. Vice-President, I must correct Mr. Linic's incorrect claim that he said about me that I said that the money for wages was quoted as saying, "he was moving out of Croatia." I really didn't say it, I said something the opposite. I said that Mr. Vrhovnik, besides regular salary in Lenco, was more than $9,000, 16 thousand later as director of the company "Vicor Oversis" in one year, was able to make 690 thousand US salaries and bonuses, and that in Croatia there was no tax, tax paid, but no contributions were paid." That's what I said about salaries and not that salary money was paid from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38688	Correction, Mr. Ivo Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38689	Well, here I have written more quotes from Mr. Linic. I'm gonna take the next row. I quote, Mr Linic said, "We see with this report that there was no abuse in the government." It's thought of this government. Mr. Linic, I will make this right because the words of your longtime friend and party friend, Mr. Damir Vrhovnik, who personally accused you that you and Mr. Ivica Racan are personally responsible for the destruction of Viktor Lenco. He also said that you knew as well as he did that in Croatian shipbuilding 60 to 70% of the import component, and that you, as he said for unknown reasons, persistently forced Viktor Lenco's recovery. Then you said, "The bankruptcy should have been before and it was our fault." Well, of course, that and this report show the whole debate as well as what happened with Victor Lenco. And one more thing. You said at the beginning, "The problem report needs to be pushed through." However, not to push through this problematic report, but to all the winemakers of this wicked act that happened in "Viktor Lenc" as well as in all Croatian thefts should be put where they belong, which is behind bars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38690	Thank you very much. Let's keep going so we don't comment on these corrections. Mr. Shime Wretches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm a little relieved, I'm not speaking on behalf of the club right now, so I can personally express my personal opinions and try to avoid any problems, but simply present my opinions and certain assessments. I wasn't very happy when I was elected a member of the Committee, but in the Rules of Procedure, he says, "What has been given to a representative has to be done" and I have done this in such a way by trying really modestly, as far as I can from our available sources give some sort of assessment within it. What I must say right away in the introduction was that it was difficult to get some information, extremely difficult but it seems to me that one of my colleagues said that it stems from a certain relationship with us as agents who we blame for all of us in this country, who are probably the richest, who knows what's going on, and of course we are being treated like this, and that's what caused me to report at all in the debate tonight, but I'd probably be over it. This is Mr. Vrhovnik saying that we are a group that is harshly in violation of the Constitution, so probably when we talk here about appointment, agenda, election, president of the Supreme Court, we are also getting involved in the judiciary and who knows what doesn't come out of it. He says we're a group of incompetents and everything else that goes. Now very briefly, though I prefer to talk about the future personally, not about the past, and that's why I'm just not glad I had to participate in everything, but here we are, but I want to say for a moment back in the past, how this Mr. Supreme was extremely smart and intelligent and how we were stupid. He was 90 and some years, 2. there was privatisation please now dates and words not to take it out, but I will try to sort it out, I was just accidentally coming up with some documents before and out of curiosity, because it was then our local bank of the Dalmatian Bank, an example of how from transition, from the socialist plan economy, went to market economy, was an example when Mr. Vrhovnik was at the top, or the chairman of the management of Viktor Lenca in Rijeka, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Rijeka Bank, or the president of the Rijeka Bank Assembly and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Dalmatian Bank, and look at this triangle. As then chairman of the board of directors of Viktor Lenco is looking at the Dalmatin Bank and gets 4 million marks of the ones from which the wheel of privatisation begins, and for this here contract, the contract is with me, for those 4 million marks then which of us could have come to that. Unfortunately, Croatia had already divided into those who went to happiness in most of Croatia's fight for the creation of the Croatian state and a small part had been determined in the fight to create themselves and its oligarchy. Mr. Vrhnik then as a member of the administration, apparently both in Rijeka and in the Dalmatian Bank was a function of the management of Viktor Lenco and not accidentally because the others did not like it, and behold wonders raise those 4 million for privatisation in the Dalmatian Bank in Zadar and guarantee him for it not his house or property, the guarantee for it is given by Rijeka Bank to him as a person. The following contract that I also have here is related to this process and it teaches us a lesson about morality, which is related to this process at the same time negotiations with the L.M., the Dutch Company seems to me, and the contract conveys all the rights and obligations to this Dutch company that the Italians seem to me, and once again the guarantee gives foreigners the wonders again of the Rijeka Bank. As the process shuts down beautifully, and now, I have to have a morale after that, hold on to the practice, and that prompted me to report, I repeat, or I would have avoided the debate, and at the same time I have to say something personal, I was, by chance, the chairman of the Tanker Navigation Board in Zadar and by the function of the chairman of the management of five, six of these companies abroad, as he received $9, 10, 16 thousand. In front of the Croatian public, I didn't get any lip. The members of the administration from Zadar were also trying to get part of the salary to slip out but using that position I tried then and stopped it fortunately, Tanking sailing was privatized, the owners were employees, today the dive of the largest ship Croatia in Split, received it Tankerska, wonderful business success all going through its own time, but if it was bloody, it should be taken, we have a friend in Austria, I forgot the whole story and then let's drag it through the vouchers and we'll find a circle of people as it will be. Fortunately, however, with a lot of nerve, with a lot of resistance, all of this was broken, and let us show an example that not everything was robbed, and there are other examples. And the one who fits into that other group is giving a lesson today and a moral lecture, I'm holding not only me but this Parliament here and almost as a whole. What particularly affects me is that part of the public who does so actually supports and supports him and the workers, so who cares today, whether his assets are in bankruptcy or someone else's today came at risk because what happened to Lance didn't or won't. So these are the doubts that actually arise from this here I agree independently of party membership with most people that actually most of us have nothing to do with it and that we need good, smart and calm thinking as far away as possible. There are good examples of successful ones, but those in which the state has put the money have the right to know and to act in some way. I agree and there is no doubt that the Constitution and other laws regulate and I like to do it often again, in Croatian society it is very difficult to succeed. In Croatian society, everything but success is forgiven, if you have succeeded from the neighbours of anyone. However, it has succeeded with acceptable means and in an acceptable way, and this can also be under quotes. Therefore, in this respect, in this respect, in this respect of different interests and various events, certainly that Viktor Lenac is one of these cases, I would have liked it personally if it were me that there were talks about the 200 richest, it doesn't matter at all how much but if we were able to point out those cases that cost both the state and the people and all of them together, and those positive ones we're still going to do, otherwise we're going to get into the problem of re-orientating the state if we're going to finally support all those who know how to work and not to touch private property otherwise I'm going to resort to it and support all the successful ones. But what I see through this debate is, of course, every single one of them is going to say that I don't judge anyone or judge her, I've even told the Committee several times, so it's not mine to be an investigator, a prosecutor and a judge. It's my only thing to collect a few of these data, grades, and try to give some kind of vision or better to say, we don't do 90 anymore, no matter what she was in and let's try to get closer to these years for the future. In this sense, here Mr. Vrhovnik and that process cannot be written all, to enter into all those procedures as everything elegant then happened about privatisation but what is not morally nice on the side to teach everyone and employees and representatives and everyone in the Croatian state, and I do not actually feel any responsibility for the situation that has happened. What I believe is that then the government needed something to understand, and I myself, if I were in a position to find the structure and support the shipbuilding as well as the other part of the industry, but what would be visible and evident from namely the review report and Price Waters, it seems to me that in 2001 and 2, then there are problems, in fact, should have been better informed. How, I can't share a lesson and then I'd be sure, which is visible and later from the views of the members of the government at the time so that we wouldn't act the same way now in this experience. Namely, all these guarantees in all three cases in this cycle of "Krake" begin the problem, I again came to a game of the case which is international, here is only a copy or a short translation from England, from America I managed to get some paper, in which it was proved in fact that back then in 2000, when the private remonters of ships noticed that there would be problems in Lenca sued Lenac and later on, I could say it was obtained, but it was another proof in a series of these evidence that there was indeed a very damaged business cycle and that there had already been a serious crisis. And then maybe even now it seems to me personally my judgment that maybe a time earlier had to find a way of eventually withdrawing into bankruptcy possibly targeted because this behavior of strangers who were owners, there being an opinion of the revision by my interpretation I think private property. Not private property, but those who are funds and... And RB and I don't know who was all inside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They've seen for themselves, no more, we're pulling back, we're going to drag the state inside. There was a problem where it should have been possible to feel this or put pressure on them and all together to reroute things and to execute a certain bankruptcy which was then never a bankruptcy should have for the purpose of sending workers home, to sell out property but unfortunately this continues the process and Croatia would finally have to stand there a little tighter. It even seems questionable to me in the end as part of the debate and this existing bankruptcy law in which bankruptcy managers are special caste in Croatian society and there is no way if you want to officially try to pull but seriously with the long-term goal of a company out of bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38692	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have one replica of Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38693	I might want to replicate my colleague, not about the character of the Supreme because I have nothing to add to what was said but with that basic dilemma whether the Supreme is equal to Lenac. And yet at this point, we have a report from the commission on Victor Lance. So that always leaves the question when we talk about Lentz whether to identify him with the Supreme. And the answer is no. Victor Lenac and the workers of Victor Lenca can't pay for irresponsibility, illegality, failures, morally questionable actions of their management, they can't. And these are the dilemmas that lie ahead of the government and will lie before the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Every failure of management is responsible for the crisis in the company and the government intervenes in that part. And that's basic. How long to intervene? Listen, unfortunately, we know the answer every time a story ends. If they knew the answer first, it would be easier and it would be a matter of personal responsibility. I always say, I'm not saying that the government is responsible. Personally, I estimate it's too late from my side. It's my personal responsibility, I've always admitted it. But it's my personal. And this does not mean that again, the government will decide differently in some case tomorrow because the issue is personal responsibilities and the perception of personal responsibilities and what the government has to decide politically is difficult. But I would pray that we understand when we discuss this report one thing is our relationship to the Supremes and one to Lentz and one to the thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38694	Thank you very much. The answer of Mr. Shime Wretch.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38695	So my colleague Linić did not intend to pollemize me in any way but simply complete the thought or part of what the weather did not arrive. Yes, there are difficult challenges and the situation and structure of the economy in which Croatia is then and in this time it is the one in which certain moves should really be made and recently these cases in Peter's hospital, the dysresia. Do not judge doctors for all those successful children who were born but for one or two cases. In fact, I'm not referring to the trial, I apologize publicly to everyone, but I'm thinking exactly about the possible responsibility in terms of those guarantees that were questionable and that's an unfortunate guarantee. I'm very much on the maritime good work, so I think it seems to me already at the time that someone in the state, I'm not answering who, I need a guarantee of maritime good to question then possibly as a danger of charge and those other insurance instruments and also warnings in which it was said then clearly and... and our audit warned, and even in one position and the Ministry of Economy seemed to me the last guarantee that it was either the last guarantee that at any time they were said to be no longer appreciated because it had completed the production of 160 million which... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and gave a beautiful picture, a wonderful picture, but then it was seen that it wasn't such a beautiful picture as it looked, so in that sense it was necessary that the part and the cycle would end with the final attitudes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the time had passed, that it was at an end and that it had to be reacted. So, I'm just saying that so much was needed in that structure from the Adriatic Coast through the Ministry of Economy, Finance to the Government and finally to issue guarantees and through the insurance of the insurance instruments that then needed something more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38696	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38697	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! No one can deny it. Lenca's last-stage development project, supported by state guarantees, failed. The guilt of those who allowed these guarantees to be used and this project from my point of view is not at all questionable here and therefore the commission should not have been set up. Therefore, state guarantees were given, Lenac failed in his investment plan and in his project. The second question is what's behind it now and it's not questionable. In this case, what matters here is what message the Commission concludes, which is the message given by the Parliament. Look, the first one I can only refer to is some. The first is the message that the former government's decisions were more of a commitment to say so moderately and the commission says this more explicitly, political reasons and seemingly caring for employees than they had a foothold in economic records. The commission therefore concludes that the former government was headed for political reasons by giving a guarantee to Lenco. It's a message. I do not deny the guilt of those guarantees that failed but deny that the former government at least as far as I'm concerned was guided by political reasons and not by economic reasons in approving these guarantees. I don't know if you understand me. And I'll explain it. Please, in the case of all guarantees in the Ministry of Finance to the Government, we have strictly managed three criteria. I explained it. The first was a guarantee he could get someone regardless of whether he was a state or private company that had successes and references to it. It's a criterion that everyone in the world today sets. And Lenac was a shipyard 110 years old, 40 years old, the only shipbuilding site that did not operate with losses, the only shipyard that had reference on the world market, in which repairs of the U.S. Navy were made, etc. This successful shipyard in the last 40 years has been more qualified to obtain state guarantees than Shkver, 3 May and any state shipyard and they have swallowed much greater guarantees. According to that logic, some economic results and the resonation site had more reasons to obtain a guarantee than any state shipyard. My second reason was. Whoever invests his capital he can get and support then possibly in the state. Lenac Shipyard had success, profit, owned by owners who invested their capital, unlike all of our other shipyards who daily, consume huge money annually and today and have nothing of their own to invest. And the third reason, we gave guarantees when there was a business bank behind the guarantees that verified and supported the project. So if someone gives their money, if the bank accepts that it's justified and she supports it, then let the state back it up. And that's the only reason we approved the guarantees when I was in the Ministry of Finance. And that reson was literally applied to the Lenco case. Now, unfortunately, the patient died and the surgery didn't work out. That is, it is absolutely a fact that no one can deny, which cannot be doubted, which can be determined and the guilt of whatever you want but I ask you not to argue and this is claimed in the Commission's report that there were political resolutions in the award of guarantees rather than economic ones. That's not true. These three resonations I'm talking about can be applied and checked at any guarantee of Lance. If you find someone else, some other criteria please choose to elaborate them here. That's the first one. Another thing I'd like to say is what Bosnjak's colleague emphasized, and that's easy to give guarantees. You know, we finance people know exactly what guarantees mean. The guarantee is a great curse. The guarantee is a great curse. The guarantee is especially a curse to whoever gives it. Not for whoever's receiving it. We knew at all times what guarantees meant, but we also knew that in today's conditions there was no state that does not support certain sectors of business, industry, priorities in its national economy, and given state guarantees, that state or government is taking risks. Watch out for state guarantees are always in a steady way risky. If they weren't, no one would be looking for them. So when the state went behind a project, then she took a certain risk and we were always aware of it. The only question now is, ultimately, the success of this policy, the government and the state, what are these guarantees that are given and what are the effects of these guarantees. I can tell you that unfortunately that part of my statement in this Committee that speaks about how many guarantees are given and what results have not found their place in this report to the Commission but at the same time proved that objectively defined, certain guarantees always simply fail. I mean, if the state in some period that guarantees in the amount of 100 she is aware that about 5 to 10% of these guarantees will be risky but in addition to those 5 to 10% she loses less than she gets by giving these 90% of successful guarantees. I don't know if you understand me, I just want to tell you that the permanent failure of guarantees does not mean that the overall policy of state guarantees and support in the active economic policy of the state is not successful. I can tell and I found it here from 2000 to 2003. 6% were failed guarantees, that's less than ever before, and that's a great result. If that happens in the future, I will support each one of these governments. That means 94% of the guarantees have worked and 6% are those that unfortunately failed because these guarantees are always risky. However, it is wrong in the report of the Commission: it is simply not good; it is simply a malicious argument used by me that guarantees in general have a positive effect but that, unfortunately, because of the risk, they should always be such that this argument does not mean that it is an excuse for a particular guarantee. Just because some guarantees fail doesn't mean there's a reason that this is a guarantee when it comes to Lentz simply so objectively and there's no guilt, there's guilt, it's a failed job. It's supported the project, which unfortunately failed even if it did happen again, I'd give it support again in the same conditions. I don't know if you understand me. Let me get this straight. These guarantees, which in this way have been made in economic terms of the day, so I deny that it existed, simply that there were political reasons to approve these guarantees. They ended up being spent on purpose, spent on salaries, on suppliers, the state audit confirmed it, etc., but unfortunately it doesn't justify the fact that the whole Lenca project ended badly because it was misled by the administration that imagined it. So, all I'm saying is that the messages this commission gives are correct, those for now to the extent that they're given, in which they point out that by Wednesday there's some kind of political resemblance, a party friendship, private association, it has nothing to do with real reality, because simply the guarantees of the day are based on the economic resonance unfortunately failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38698	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, honourable representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38699	Mr. President, I really felt the need to say a few sentences after this presentation of Mr. Church on behalf of the motionary. So, the Ministry of Economy, therefore, delivered an opinion to the Ministry of Finance on 18 February 2003 on a guarantee request. It states in this opinion that by applying the government's decision on the criteria for granting state guarantees, the shipyard does not meet a number of new extended criteria. So, the Ministry of Economy writes to the Ministry of Finance and continues to write there the following. The unsettled obligations of the shipyard on 9 January 2003 amounted to 147 million kuna of which are 28 million kunas and some million kunas to the state budget and the Shipyard has approved state guarantees of 3.5 million US dollars and 298 million euros. And what I want to say now is based on this last sentence of yours. So that's not the opinion and attitude of the investigating committee, it's also a quote from the official document of the Ministry of Economy. So I quote: "On the basis of all of the above, despite the observed shortcomings, the Ministry of Economy considers it justified to issue a state guarantee to the shipyard as an act of political decision, I repeat as an act of political decision and support to the shipyard and foreign investors to overcome the consumer crisis.". So, all that you said that your decisions of the RES have nothing to do with politics but are solely the basis of economic parameters and criteria that you see in official documents, and I quoted what it says in official documents as not responding to the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38700	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is what my colleague Cain offered me when he said that he was a victim of the privatisation of Mr. Vrhnik. I can't believe it, I don't believe it, but I think he's a big winner of this privatisation, and I'm going to go back to the 690 thousand dollars he cashed in one year and that's how he played the law in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm interested in two things. Who was the chairman of the Supervisory Board and who were members at the time? That's what I'm very interested in. And two. Did the government know when she vouched for his salary? If she knew, I think she supported law enforcement, and if she didn't, then that's a different story. However, in order to correct the injustice that was done to the Republic of Croatia, I ask Mr. Vrhovnik to account for 690 thousand dollars alone, as he has calculated the tax, that the bill itself contributes to health and retirement and if he loves this country to pay about 700 thousand kuna plus interest that it has created for this time and to show his love for the country, let’s settle that debt to the country because it has violated the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38701	Thank you very much. Does the chairman of the commission hold? Not anymore. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate on this subject. Report with the proposal for measures of the Research Commission for the determination of facts relating to issued state guarantees, creditors of the private company Shipyard Viktor Lenac d.d. River. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report is hereby adopted with a proposal for measures by the Research Commission to determine the facts relating to the state guarantees issued, the creditors of the private shipbuilding company "Viktor Lenac" d.d. River. Please engage. You can vote. The result? With 72 votes in favour, four abstentions and 15 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38704	Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here's a proposal for a law on the sale of apartments intended for the head of a residential building. In particular, the House Rental Act, as you know from Article 52(4), provides that persons who use an apartment on the basis of a valid legal basis intended for the head of the building cannot move out of that apartment until the adoption of a special law. However, this temporary solution does not permanently resolve the legal position of those persons who use the apartment. It is not clear from the provisions of the Rental Act whether these persons fall under the rental law regime, whether they have replaced their contracts on the use of these apartments, or whether they have replaced the contract for the pursuit of the supervisive work by the lease and what their status is, and if they pay the rent to whom they pay the rent. The situation is usually around these apartments if you take the history that we've been giving extensively in the introduction of the law very discriminatory and these people are in an independent situation here for nine years and it's time to resolve their status. According to ours, we also proposed that this law address the issue of re-purposed common spaces in residential buildings, which until the entry into force of the 1991 Law on the sale of dwellings, were socially owned and re-scheduled by those persons. These are the rule of laundry, various warehouses and in them today live also with unresolved status, and for example, pay bills for both electricity and water. So with this proposal, such families are somewhere around a thousand, and we believe that the question, that it is high time that this issue was resolved. Therefore, this proposal proposes that persons who are resident until 5 November 1996, meaning the entry into force of the House Rental Act, move into an apartment intended for the head of the residential building, and are constantly resident in it, acquire the right to purchase that apartment. The right to purchase would also be acquired by legal followers, or heirs to the superintendents, if the superintendent died in the meantime and lived with him in that apartment today. Next, they can accomplish, here is another thing that matters and it's a valid legal basis. Therefore, in order to be able to submit a request for purchase, the competent authorities should have a valid legal basis for the use of the supervisory apartment, and a valid basic contract shall be considered to be concluded under the law, i.e. the regulations applicable at the time of the conclusion of that contract. These are the rules on housing relations from 1963 until 1996 when the Law on Residential Relations ceased to apply by applying the Law on Rentals and the Law on Property. The right to purchase is acquired if they do not own a house or apartment in the same place, or if they have not sold it, donated it or in any way alienated it after 5 November 1996. We know that some of these individuals have also submitted applications for the purchase of the apartment through the POS programme. It is therefore proposed that if these persons are on the list of the order of the POS Championship, they have the right to decide whether to buy an apartment from the POS list or to buy this supervisory apartment in which they now live. So they have the right to choose. Also, if they are unable to buy that apartment, then they are proposed to obtain the status of the tenant with the right to pay the protected rent. They must submit a request within a specified period and shall be subject to the provisions of the Rental Act. The sellers of these apartments, as well as these common areas, of which we will say a little more later, are considered the municipality of the city, i.e. the town of Zagreb in whose area the apartment is located. And the funds achieved from the sale of these apartments would be paid at the expense of the joint reserve of the building to which the apartment belongs, and co-owners of the building would use it to maintain the building in accordance with the regulations governing the way in which the building is managed and maintained. The price of the apartment we set for this law is 700 euros as well as for the victims of the Homeland War, with the price being reduced by the cost of investment up to 20% and depreciation of the building. As a matter of fact, the law further detailedly regulated this price calculation process, the way in which the contract is sold and the like. When it comes to the spaces that have been created, the apartments that have been created by the pre-purpose of the common parts of the building should be said as follows. Regulation (EU) No 372/2012 of the European Parliament and The law on ownership and other real rights is laid down that whoever is in force until the entry into force of that Act means on 1 January 1997, on the basis of the approval granted by the competent authority within the limits of its powers, he or she has made such property available for his or her own expense to the re-use of joint premises in a building in social property or in an apartment or other independent room, on the basis of, and in the framework of that authorisation, the right of ownership of the re-purposed premises. However, in practice, certain persons are, in the rule of urgency and often, with the consent of the tenants of that time, the meaning of the former tenant rights holders, as well as the established owners, have, by their own means, re-appropriated the common premises, but do not, but do not meet the conditions laid down in the provision of Article 372. The fact is that they live in these, in these rooms, or re-scheduled apartments today. As a rule, I said it was the dry cleaners, the laundry. In view of the fact that the re-use of these common areas was made prior to the privatisation of the Housing Fund by the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is... and since today's situation is not legally regulated, it is valued that it needs to be arranged, so we suggest that this issue be settled in the same way as for these supervisors only for what it would be worth, it is worth the provision that, if they are re-purpose and do not meet the conditions of 372. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The property law implemented by 19 June 1991 means until the date of entry into force of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. As regards the terms and conditions, the way in which the sale is made, the lease rights apply to the same provision as those used by supervisors. A very interesting debate was held on the committees. It is pointed to some doubts that we will certainly consider by the second reading in installing into the text of the law all that is acceptable to improve, improve the text of the law. Here I am asking you to support this law, and on all the remarks in this debate we will take into account the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38705	Thank you very much. The committees? Legislative? The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health. President, Honorable Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38706	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. At its 31st session held on 8 May, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed the proposal for a law on the sale of apartments intended for the head of the residential building as the home working body in accordance with the powers of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement of its representative, it pointed out that the bill regulates the legal position of persons using the apartment intended for the building manager as well as the legal position of persons who, until the beginning of the privatisation of social dwellings, have arranged common rooms in the building, storage, laundry and so on for the needs of their own housing. Representatives of the associations of tenants and real estate owners took part in the debate that followed except for the members of the Committee. All the members of the Committee supported the adoption of this proposal for a law of application that would enable the resolution of one of the problems created by the conversion of ownership of social housing in which there was a household law. As over the past period, the application of the Law on the sale of dwellings where there is a tenancy in different ways, some 1500 dominant dwellings are also necessary for persons who use the remaining 400 apartments to predict the possibility of buying-in. This will resolve the housing of these families that have so far been free of permanent status for a period of time until a special regulation is passed. During the debate, some concrete remarks were also made on the very text of the provisions of the bill. It was thus warned that the name should be read by the Law on Sale and Rent of Apartments intended for the head of the residential building. Since the legal position of residents is also regulated in supervisory apartments that will not buy apartments. In the event of the inability to purchase an apartment, it is proposed that those persons acquire the legal position of the tenant with the right to pay the protected rent. For the purposes of paragraph 1, Article 7 is proposed to extend the planned period of 3 months for the submission of an application for the purchase of an apartment to 6 months. At the same time, it would also be useful to establish certain reliefs for the single payment of the entire price of the apartment. In accordance with Article 6(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, it is appropriate to provide for the provision of additional information in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, and in particular Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 10/2013 as regards the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of 22 December 2013 laying down the Council and Commission Regulation (EC) No 10 October 2013 on the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council and of 22 The members of the Committee also supported the envisaged possibility of buying out joint rooms in a residential building that have been refurbished for the needs of housing. It is often that persons, with the consent of their own residents, have arranged common rooms for the purpose of their dwellings but because they do not meet the conditions laid down in the Property Act and other real rights in those rooms cannot acquire ownership rights. After the debate, the members of the Committee decided, with one vote, to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law on the sale of apartments intended for the head of the residential building and the second, any objections, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when the final draft law is drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38707	Thank you. Thank you very much. The Constitution Committee. President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38708	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at today's 36th session. In the debate, the Committee supported the proposal's intention to adequately arrange the sale of apartments intended for residential building manager and apartments built on common areas of the residential building. However, the Committee considers that the provisions of the bill could give rise to the possibility that the seller of sales and co-ownerships, co-owners' co-ownerships' rights, which he considers constitutionally-legislatively questionable, could arise. In this connection, the Committee proposes that a provision be put in place in the final draft of the law that, in the event that the process of selling the said apartments, the ownership of the owners will be determined in accordance with their co-ownership share in the supervisory apartment. After the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority vote; 6 for and one abstention, to the Croatian Parliament to conclude that the proposal for a law on the sale of apartments intended for housing managers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38709	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38710	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Party welcomes the attempt by the competent Ministry to regulate the legal position of persons using supervisory apartments and persons who, with the consent of the residents at the time, have arranged common rooms for the needs of their own housing. The attempt has so far been unsuccessful, but so far the legal position of those persons has been undefined. Today, the fact is that former overseers or their successors live in dwellings intended for overseers during the conduct of their duties. The fact is that they can't buy those apartments from having no lease contracts and of course they're not paying anyone rent. Their fate is uncertain, and uncertainty requires the state government to try to resolve it. We regret that the government has given up trying to solve the problem of protected tenants. It is true that associations cannot agree on a solution model, but that disagreement only harms protected tenants because the current situation is the worst for them. The evictions occur almost daily which clearly does not concern those who have solved their housing problem, so they are truly no longer interested in a systematic solution. Their unreal and unsustainable demands prevent legal resolution, and the adverse consequences of those who have not been resourceful through life, using various methods and even legal disadvantages, have provided not only an apartment under protected rent status but also a house to be found on the way. I was called by some of the protected tenants and asked for any solution because the existing is unsustainable. The regulation of these legal relations is ahead of us and this will have to be resolved regardless of the opposition of the associations or rather its leaders, because a significant part of the membership is for the fastest resolution. Therefore, the aim of this law is to regulate the legal position of persons using supervisory apartments, and persons who, with the consent of the tenants of their own resources, have arranged common rooms for the needs of their own apartment in such a way as to enable them to purchase the apartment by selling the property to the owners, or co-owners of the building to which the apartment belongs, by investing in joint reserves. The right to purchase would only have those persons who had moved into an apartment by 5.11.1996 on the basis of a valid legal basis and lived in it all the time. The right to purchase would also have persons who, with the consent of the tenants of the time until 19 June 1991, had spent on their expenses the re-use of common rooms in a social-owned building in an apartment for the needs of their own apartment and lived in it all the time. This way, the uncertainty would end somewhere around a thousand residents. It is good, but it should be done in a way that is consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The basic question here is who owns the apartment in which the former superintendent, i.e. the space the tenant arranged for his own apartment for his own expense. According to Article 6 of the bill, the sellers of the apartment are considered the municipality, the city, or the City of Zagreb in whose area the apartment is located. This provision indicates that the owners of the apartment of the municipalities, the city, or the City of Zagreb, because the property can only be sold by owners and no one else. Who owns it, we don't know it right now. The buildings in which the supervisory apartments and the refurbished premises had the right to manage had former self-government stakeholders, but they were not owners. The purchase of apartments with tenancy rights privatized apartments, but not supervisory apartments and space for joint use. It is true that the sale of a special part of the building of a specific apartment to the person who uses this apartment from the title of acquired housing rights entered into the price of the apartment the value of the useful area and the side area on which the apartment rights extend, but also the value of the common parts and devices of the building. The owners of the apartments are joint owners, on those parts of the property and real estate devices that serve all the owners of special parts of the building. However, the score sheet did not contain a point in the ruling apartment as an element of an increase in the value of the apartment. The fact would point to the conclusion that it was a special part of the building that remained on social property after privatisation, because it was not paid value or was established for it. The conclusion, however logical, is not enough. The ownership must be unequivocally established. Furthermore, in the second part of the supervisory apartments ownership is known. These are the owners of apartments that have a provision in their apartment purchase contracts, I quote: "The purchase price includes the price of the supervisory apartment in the corresponding amount. The master's apartment is located in the building, both this and that area and, of course, with the description of the apartment." These supervisory apartments are co-owned by owners of other apartments and their property cannot be restricted, their co-ownership cannot be sold except for them, nor can the price be negotiated. As this is about first reading, the proposer can find constitutionally acceptable solutions by the second reading. We stand for the law, but we cannot allow one injustice to be rectified by other injustices. In particular, it must be ensured that the law does not legalise the illegal immigration and usurpation of other people's property of whatever it is. Implementation will not be easy or swift, but it is important that the final solution be just. Finally, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club supports the idea and this proposal of the law in the first reading, with the proposer finding constitutional solutions until the second reading and nomotechnically edits it to be quite clear and free of interpretations that are often contrary to the legislator's intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38711	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38712	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the sale of dwellings intended for the head of the building is governed by the terms and conditions of the sale of supervisory dwellings and dwellings created by the pre-purpose of common rooms in the residential building. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the adoption of this law. So far, there have been more attempts to regulate the conditions of selling these apartments, but unfortunately these attempts have not received the necessary support. I will therefore be free to give more detailed consideration to the situation of citizens living in those apartments. In the former state from 1945 to 58, various forms of forced seizure of ownership of residential buildings and business premises were carried out... These properties are state-owned, and more residential buildings are placed under the management regime of municipal housing authorities. [[You don't understand.]] During this procedure, housing companies in supervisory apartments were found by officials, but also by non-supervised users. I must point out that some people then received solutions to the apartment in charge and that in 91 and 92 they bought it without a problem because they had paper that they were tenants. Another category of people who did not have a solution to household law remained in an undefined status that has changed five times to this day. The 1996 housing law stipulates that people who were not superiors must move out of that apartment with their family. Only persons who have legally moved into the apartment are protected, i.e. those who had the solution that they were tenants, regardless of what it was. The same law stipulates that supervisory apartments are to be used for a specified period of time while a supervisory duty is to be carried out. The status of homeowners is not given to the authorities or persons who used the master’s apartment, since the supervisory jobs from 1945 to 73 were carried out as secondary jobs. The Law on ownership and parts of the building that entered into force in 1973 prescribed that supervisory dwellings were common parts of the building, and only the 74 Housing Relations Act provided for the possibility of performing supervisory tasks as permanent employment. The authorities were obliged to conclude a contract with the home council on the use of the apartment or SIZ which managed the residential building on behalf of the social private owners of the apartments and business premises. The 1985 Law on Housing Relations, which has been complemented many times, has made new arrangements for the use of superior dwellings. It was not possible to obtain housing rights at the apartment’s master’s apartment because the use was related to the performance of the official duty. A resident of the supervisory apartment had to conclude a contract with the municipality. Of course, many could not do it because no one wanted to do it with them. The 1992 apartment sales law, which has often been complemented, has never resolved the issue of supervisors, was the conversion of ownership of social housing that has the right to housing. In the case of sale of apartments to persons benefiting from acquired housing rights in the price of the apartment and belonging to the total part of the building, the value of the master’s apartment is not included. At the same time, supervisory dwellings were scored as a special part of the building for the purpose of determining the level of the rent paid by the superintendent to the SIZ or the Fund. In this way, the acquired situation points to the conclusion that the special part of the building that makes up the supervisory apartment is in the process of converting ownership and remains socially owned, and this is certainly one basis on which this Law can forever resolve the question of the few 100 families that have not been resolved so far. By law on renting dwellings in 1996, the Law on Residential Relations ceases to apply and the Institute of Building Supervisors has been shut down. The staff of the supervisory boards shall be protected from eviction by the provisions of Article 52(4) until the adoption of a specific regulation, which we may now adopt. According to available data in our country, approximately 400 supervisory apartments were registered and all others were sold. Taking into account the social situation of the users of these apartments, it is our view that this law requires the regulation of the legal position of the persons who use supervisory apartments in a way that allows them to buy that apartment if they have moved into that apartment by 5 November 1996 and live in it all the time. In the provisions of Article 372. The law on ownership and other real rights is laid down in the conditions under which it is possible to acquire the right of ownership of re-purposed joint premises in a social property building. If the persons who have re-purposed it have done so by means of their own means. As a rule, they have often, with the consent of the tenants, arranged the storage, laundry, and similar rooms for the needs of housing, but do not meet the conditions for obtaining the right of ownership as set out in Article 372. Laws of ownership and other real rights. Therefore, the proposer proposes that those living in these rooms also be governed by a legal position in such a way as to enable them to purchase these rooms, if it is re-purposed to use these rooms in an apartment for their own housing needs by 19 June 1991 and live in them all the time. It is, in effect, the date of the entry into force of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. In the event that persons who use a supervisory apartment and persons who use common rooms who have been converted into apartments for their own purposes are unable to purchase an apartment and would acquire the legal position of the tenant with the right to a protected rent. The legislator suggests that the sale price of those apartments is based on a 700-euro etalon construction price, reduced by the amount of depreciation and invested assets and the funds invested can be recognised as a maximum of up to 20% of the value of the apartment. The purchase of the apartment can be arranged at once or with the possibility of a 15-year period payment and an interest rate fixed at 2%. For example, the calculation of the price of purchases of a flat of a net size of 55 square meters in a building of 35 years old built of solid material with an etalan price as I listed 700 euros and with my own investment in the reuse of a common space in an apartment up to 20% of the value of an apartment's apartment price would amount to 21 thousand 366 euros. Or 388.40 per metre square, which is the appropriate price for today's real estate market or makes up about 20 to 25% of the market price. In the event of a 15-year payment, the meal would be 187 euros. Conditions and method of sale of the apartment are governed by the provisions of Articles 6 to 15. The Commission considers that the time limit for the submission of an application for the conclusion of an agreement on the purchase of an apartment which is regulated in Article 7(1) should be extended to a more appropriate period of time. at least 6 months from the date of entry into force of this Act. The rental of an apartment in case of inability to purchase an apartment was arranged by Article 16. We also believe that this period of application for a lease should also be extended to 6 months from the date of entry into force of this Act. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts this bill and suggests that it be headed for a second reading. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38713	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38714	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable promoters, colleagues and colleagues. In the opening of this debate, I would point to a number of problems that have not been solved by this law. As a matter of principle, it should not be against the fact that supervisory housing can be purchased but that should depend primarily on the owners of these apartments, or whether those owners, want to sell those apartments. In some ways, it is saddened that the issue of property ownership or real estate is constantly identified with housing care because these are two completely different and separate categories. The current House Rental Act, Article 52(4), provides that persons who use an apartment based on a valid legal basis for the head of the building cannot be evicted until a specific regulation has been adopted. Since this special regulation has not yet been established, those persons are legally protected for the time being or until such a regulation is adopted. The basic question is whether the sale of these apartments is possible in the way it is proposed here and whether it engulfs the rights of ownership guaranteed by the Constitution. As we know, somewhere there in 97 C.E., 98 was a similar solution to the bill at the time as an amendment to the Law on Renting Apartments was already in the Assembly, but it was never referred to another reading. What is the extent or extent of the number of dwellings and persons affected by this law? It is explained by the applicant on a total of 400 supervisory apartments. A few years ago, a number of 300 to 330 dwellings that were constantly directed by the association itself was handled, and it is hard to believe, meanwhile, that the figure increased by a third. She could only shrink. It means no more than 400 apartments and from a thousand to a maximum of a thousand and 200 people who use these apartments while on the other hand the law touches a multiple number of owners or co-owners of the properties in which these apartments are located. In any case, it is one smaller number of apartments and not such a hot problem that the applicant has accepted. The promoter did not accept addressing the burning problem of protected tenants in housing owned by citizens in the so-called "citizens". private apartments with about 7,000 and life-long housing problems many tens of thousands of young people with no roof over their heads and other citizens, perhaps even a hundred thousand people who do not have a residential issue in Croatia. In view of these problems, the issue of overseers at this point is not even so difficult because these people are being taken care of legally and, for the time being, legally protected by the current regulation. There's a feeling that it's a kind of test that should show that if this sale of other people's property goes through, then we'll sell those so-called. private apartments, so apartments owned by citizens where the tenants are protected. The fundamental question of this bill is ownership. Whose property is the master's residence. The reasons for the proposal do not explicitly state whose apartments are owned but to be assumed, namely the apartments are sold and the money goes to the property owners and to their account of the joint reserve. It's just a question of who sells, at which price sells, whether it has to be sold, or whether it's the owner's free will, where and where the money goes from that sale. The 1986 Housing Relations Act, which was put out of force by the adoption of the Law on the rental of dwellings of the "National Journal" 91/96. In accordance with the provisions of Article 8, supervisory apartments were considered to be apartments for official needs that could not be obtained by household law but were related to the performance of the tasks of building supervisors and the rights and obligations relating to use were governed by a special lease agreement. The fact is that supervisory dwellings are also mentioned in the provisions of Articles 375 and 377. The law on ownership and other real rights only in a context relating to common premises or common parts of property which the applicant also found in its reasoning and which no one disputed. But these laws are not crucial here. A key law is that at the time of the privatisation of apartments, so at the moment of sale defined legal treatment of supervisory apartments. He said they were placed in the common areas of the building and the house sales law, which said that the buyer also bought common parts of the building by the apartment. As proof of this, I have a purchase contract here where the first page on the bottom reads: "The purchase price of the apartment includes the price of the supervisory apartment in the corresponding amount. The master apartment is fully defined as an apartment that is located in the house KS3-1 as a one-room apartment size 39.62 entrance no. 5 on the ground floor, apartment no. Eight." So, it's not about any superintendent's apartment or any fictitious superintendent's apartment that's been sold to all the other co-owners in that building as a special property. So it's a building in Poljanice facility KS3-1. The Law on Ownership of Parts of the Building of 1973, by the provision of Article 5, was set up in common parts of the building, saying the apartment for building manager. The law ceased to apply to the Law of Ownership and other real rights on 1 January 1997. The law on the sale of dwellings on which there is an apartment law in June 1991 in Article 1(1) states that the apartment is to be purchased together with the joint parts and devices of the building, so the purchase of these apartments is to be bought and the corresponding share of the building. So very clearly it turns out that the customers are i.e. the owners bought and the corresponding common part of the building. Next, the apartments were intended for the building manager, who at the time of privatisation were defined as common parts of the building until privatisation under the Sales Act, were now social property now in a brand new ownership and legal regime, i.e. through privatisation, uncontested ownership of co-owners of real estate. So it clearly turns out that supervisory apartments as common parts of the building are owned by co-owners of real estate. Infringement of property rights. Since the dominant dwellings are owned by co-owners, this means that this proposal uncontests ownership rights or tries to harm property guaranteed by the Constitution. The right to a home cannot and must not be equated with the right to ownership. This difference is visible from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in which it is stated under Article 34 to quote "home is non-injurious", while Article 48(1), quote, "guarantee the right of ownership". So, completely two separate categories. In addition, the Property Act and other real rights clearly stipulates that there is only one right to ownership. So there's no less and more valuable owners or kind of property. The ownership treatment is the same for everyone. In relation to the right of ownership, Article 50 should be taken into account. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which provision of the law can be limited or seized in the interest of the Republic of Croatia with a market value compensation. In view of the fact that supervisory apartments are no longer social property and are not owned by a state or a unit of local self-government it is estimated that the proposed sale of supervisory apartments is not an acceptable solution without affecting the ownership rights of those apartments, i.e. the ownership of co-owners of the building. Following the provision of the article referred to in the 50th, the question is raised as to the definition of the interest of the Republic of Croatia to deprive foreign residents of the ownership of co-owners of such owners in a certain way and to sell them to persons using those apartments. The bill provides for these apartments to be sold by municipalities or cities. The only question is how can a city or a municipality sell something else. They can only sell their property. In doing so, the money from the sale according to the proposal goes to the co-owners at the expense of the joint reserve. Why? The prescribed price and method of payment and pricing should not be specifically or tried because the basic question is who or why can sell someone else's property. In addition, the question of the different values of these apartments in the market and the possibility that persons living in such apartments do not live in them at all or have any other property or other apartment owned and we know of various other combinations. In principle, we have no objection to solving the problem of supervisory housing, and what de facto can do now and for which no special regulation at all is required. But sales can only be sold if they don't hit the owner, i.e. in constitutional rights, i.e. without coercion and certain prescribed conditions in terms of coercion, price or the like. The sale is only possible if the owners, or co-owners of the property, agree to it. There is certainly a possibility of stimulating and participating, i.e. that the state or city is participating in the price. We from the club of representatives of HNS, PGS, with a series of remarks that we will have and which in writing and forward to the competent ministry. We will accept this Law in our first reading in the hope that we will get an early autumn a little more content and perhaps a better proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38715	Thank you very much. One correction, Mr. Marco Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38716	Mr. Vice President, a distinguished colleague of Chichin-Shain's, in her presentation, stated that the supervisory apartments were owned by those buyers who bought apartments in several residential buildings and supported it after one contract. I can also bring into this House the contract of the apartment that I supported, buy in which there are no letters about the superintendent's apartment, or a list of points where my apartment is not scored with, in which the value of the superintendent's apartment is included. Therefore, it may be some exception and some case, and for the most part, hundreds of cases here in the city of Zagreb, supervisory apartments are not owned by those who bought...... Let it go, I'm not interested in it, who bought the apartment, and that's an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38717	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38718	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen and gentlemen of the Ministry. The HSP Club welcomes the adoption of this Act. It is good that the Law is in the first reading so that by the second reading we can also prepare quality amendments for the final proposal. We also expect the Ministry's representatives to closely follow the proposals put forward here, so that the final bill I believe is even more high quality. So, we welcome the initiative to finally settle the issue of supervisory housing and, in particular, make sure that some of these apartments are created by over-intention of common areas of the building. What is particularly important is to determine which of these apartments were also owned by social property and are now owned by the Republic of Croatia, the municipality, the city, or the city of Zagreb. We agree that the use of these apartments previously owned by social property and are now owned by the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities, or the city of Zagreb must be regulated legally in such a way as to rent or sell them on the basis of a valid legal basis. Therefore, to be leased or sold to a person who, on the basis of a valid legal basis, moved into an apartment. Or on the basis of a valid legal basis on its cost, she spent the re-purpose of joint premises that were socially owned and are now owned by the Croatian state, municipality, city or city of Zagreb. These differences, or finesse, should be considered because they are actually essential. First of all, in the name of the Law behind the word "sale" should be the word "rent." Therefore, this Law should also apply to the possibility of renting apartments intended and to the head of a residential building and not only to its sale. Secondly, in the Law itself in Article 1 and in all subsequent articles and subtitles, it should be added to the words that the sale or rental of apartments owned by the Croatian State, the municipality, the city, or the city of Zagreb. So, that used to be social property. Also, in Article 3. and this is really important, words should be added on the basis of a valid legal basis. So we hold that this entire procedure, any sale, as indicated here, was either the lease we propose these apartments can only go if it was the users who started using this apartment on a valid legal basis. Because anything else without it would actually be to enable and legalise illegal immigration, unauthorized re-uses of space and any other illegal actions and actions. Therefore, only those who have entered that space on the basis of a valid legal basis, or on the basis of a valid legal basis on their costs, have reorganised that space. As regards Article 6, where it is said that the sellers of the apartment are considered a municipality, city, or city of Zagreb in whose territory the city is located. It should also be added after it is unequivocally established that the apartment is owned by the seller, so, the Republic of Croatia, the municipalities, the city, or the city of Zagreb, therefore, there would be no doubt as the seller can be the municipality, the city, or the city of Zagreb only if he is the rightful owner. So it is not the city of Zagreb, the municipality or the city, or the Croatian state that sells other people's property but its own. The same supplement must also be applied to the conclusion of the contract, making sure that contracts and the whole process of selling apartments can be carried out only after the construction and establishment of the ownership shares of the sellers, so, the Republic of Croatia, the municipality, the city or the city of Zagreb. We also believe in Article 9 that the price of the apartment should be included in the budget of the price of the apartment, the price of the land, the price of the municipal infrastructure and the connections in order to make the calculation more accurate. I have presented all these proposals here and the name of the HSP Club and, at the request of the Association of Real Estate Owners of the Republic of Croatia, who are asking that these proposals be taken into account when drawing up the final bill, I see that the Ministry will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38719	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38720	Here, maybe I'll just fill in a little bit more. I would say again that I appreciate the ministry's efforts to address the problem. Of course, I'd be much happier if it was a bigger one, a bigger problem, and that's to solve tenants in private-owned apartments. And that I think this is a de facto drop in the sea of those problems that we actually have in our apartment and apartment. What I would particularly like to appeal to, even if my colleague Tadic mentioned it, I would like to appeal to Article 1(1) and (2), where this article should certainly be complemented, the provisions of this Act also apply to the sale of apartments. It should be completed in the possession of the Republic of Croatia, the municipality, the city or city of Zagreb. I think it is absolutely important to define that this sale can only be made by those apartments that are not co-owned by other, other private owners or other owners. She would also pray that if the clarity of the law was ensured to remove the possibility of new doubts, to avoid new, new procedures. That in, it is necessary in the subtitle behind the word selling apartments again in article 2, I also think "in the possession of the Republic of Croatia". In Article 3 behind the word «1991. The year" should certainly be added "based on a valid legal basis" because we know that there are many situations where people have moved into such supervisory apartments in different ways. Not to say that they often moved in or, with some agreement, got some kind of dryer to change into an apartment, and then they would expand to the rest of the attic for which they never got consent. So the implications there are in some way legalized certain illegal construction which can certainly not be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia without saying that it is neither legal nor correct behind the rest of you citizens. It would also mention Article 6(6), paragraph 3. He says: "Extremely from the provision of paragraph 2 of this article, the assets achieved by selling the apartment belong to the municipality, the city of Zagreb, in whose area the apartment is located in case it cannot be determined unequivocally which apartment is intended for the head of the building." Gentlemen, I don't know how the Legislator's Committee went. I believe you'll say it yourself, and realize for yourself that you can't sell something where you don't know who owns it? So selling something where you can't undoubtedly determine who it belongs to, I don't think you can even start that sale. It's just that it bothers me very much. I think it's illegal and it can't be done, so think about what this could imply further. Also in Article 9, I think that, I do not know whether it is deliberate or accidental, but from the price of land, the price of municipal infrastructure and connections, noting and the price of the settlement of the parking space because it also belongs in the city of Zagreb, should be included in the price of the apartment according to the applicable positive regulations. There's so much for now. I'll say a few more words in the closing word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38721	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Lonchar is up. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38722	Mr. Vice-President, I will firstly say that I fully support the applicant's intensities, therefore, given that it is a regulation or law in the first reading that it is precisely this way that it regulates this matter or that it is trying to resolve this problem that has obviously arisen in our legal system after the application of the Law on the sale of dwellings in which there is a household law, the possibility of buying out those dwellings as housing units from the regime of acquired resident status, i.e. consumable rights or housing rights. So it's obvious that in the context of these properties when we talk about supervisory housing, one thing I would dare say is the ownership regime and in terms of the use of that which did not allow, allowed, did not have a legal foothold that these properties, in some way, would be bought in order to regulate in a similar way or the same way the housing issue or housing rights or even ownership relations within the same building, when it came to the apartment that was purchased under the Law on the Buy-in of dwellings in which there was a household right in relation to supervisory dwellings, or in relation to the apartments that we owned under that 1985 Law, the House of dwellings, of course, were called dwellings for official needs, so that in which the system could not acquire housing rights, so they did not fall within the scope of the Law on the sale of dwellings in which there is a residential law. Indeed, there are also constitutional and legal doubts in terms of the development of certain legal institutes that we find in this Law, however, there is no doubt since it is the first reading that this can be brought into line not only with constitutional and legal provisions but also with other regulations that regulate this law, this area so that there should be no or should be no doubt or doubt about the illegality or possible contradiction of certain legal solutions which will ultimately be in place. Here's a concrete example. And the colleague has now shown one form of contract from which it is apparent that in certain situations, certain properties have entered into the purchase contracts and acquisition of ownership rights in the aliquot parts, for example when it comes to supervisory housing. But in many other situations, I don't know exactly now, but I certainly know from practice that it's not usually an accident. Now the question is whether within one real estate, the property is defined as defined by the Law on Property and other real rights supervisory position, the apartment is part of the building that serves the common use of the building. Stan to serve it. I don't think so. I think it's wrong and wrong to interpret that regulation at the beginning. Because in the context of the division not of real estate but of things on real estate and on moving things in this case one roof, one horizontal or vertical installation can be something that serves the common use of the building and one separate residential unit absolutely does not. So if, in a formal and legal sense, there has been a registration of ownership rights in some alicotic part of those apartments, or in that opening part of the point of view of the anti-constitution or protection of property rights, I think that the right to legal decisions of that doubt can be removed in any case, and people who are now in those apartments, by the provisions of the proposed law or proposed decisions, allow them to acquire the right of ownership without injure any constitutional decrees or provisions of the Law on ownership and other real rights. So much for the provision of Article 50. The constitution that we all know I think that in the end or after the second reading we will absolutely clear these doubts from the constitutional and legal aspect, therefore for legal solutions like this, presented or translated into legal norm absolutely should not be and will not be in the sense of a final solution and unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38723	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS concludes five minutes of Mrs. Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38724	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's maybe just a few more words on this topic. It may well be mentioned that in early July 2003, the former coalition government of the Republic of Croatia set out the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rent of Apartments in which, among other things, the proposal was properly addressed and the question of the provision of Article 40, which I will read to you a little later, by the Law on Renting Apartments. It is now working to abolish one, one solution from 1998, where it practically ruled the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and abolished one decision. The legislative proposal was submitted to the Croatian Parliament on the same day for second reading, but the fact is that in the autumn session of Parliament in this meeting he was not included in the adoption procedure. It was therefore in a procedural sense to expect that the proposal would also be discussed after the Croatian Parliament's election in the new assembly. However, after last year's parliamentary elections, the new government withdrew the bill while the media quoted the government, or the competent minister, as announcing new quality solutions to the same problem. Therefore, it is now up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find these new acceptable solutions for all the tenants located in private-owned apartments, of course with legally sustainable solutions and financial, the opportunities of which the State, the Republic, has. Despite the big media announcements mentioned after the elections, however, there seems to be no prospect or indication that, in due course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose some legal arrangements for the renting problem in private apartments. And given that it is certainly in the light of and the proposal for a state budget which simply does not allow it at this time. However, what was then presented in that proposal would have made me aware of three points. Preserved rentals to former tenants who use apartments owned by natural persons who meet the conditions for moving into their apartment should be adequately provided with a second living space for the purpose of home care of these tenants. In addition, the possibility of a protected tenant solving the issue himself by buying an apartment with certain financial support from the state is foreseen. I would like to point out that this is a subsidy. This is where a state subsidy of 175 euros per metre per square metre was proposed, so a grant, which is the same as in the Encouragement Housing Act. And also local self-government units if they want to finally solve this problem for private tenants can also subsidise as much as they want but of course up to 210 euros as per the law of POS. The legal position of the persons who use the apartment intended for building supervisors is also arranged. It is also a proposal from our law that persons who are in social property buildings until the start of the privatisation of social housing or until the entry into force of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household right by their own means, who have arranged their own resources for a common room in buildings such as storage, laundry, etc. Protected rents, which is also one of the proposals, namely the associations, suggest that not all apartments must be sold but that rents, rents can be determined and that particularly users of these common areas and joint supervisory apartments can pay rent in the home reserve, i.e. in the reserve of the apartment building. It is the same solution and does not apply to the sale and availability of this good. What you might still want to say for the end, and I think it's positive that you went with this proposal because it's certainly one of the test solutions and we'll see how it goes. So we have no objection to solving this problem, but we appreciate that the attempt has been made. However, sales can and can be sold really only something can be sold if it does not enter the ownership or constitutional rights, or if there is no coercion or any prescribed conditions, so that someone prescribes that you must sell it for 700 euros and you appreciate that your building on Zrinjevac is worth a thousand 600 euros per metre square metre, etc. Sales can also be made in a way that the state subsidises the price difference. It means that 700 is sold and that those prices that are really on that position rent can be subsidized by the state. And that's one of the solutions. In doing so, there is the possibility of stimulation, participation, the state can participate in the price. It is possible for the state or municipality to provide housing by providing them with replacement apartments with protected rental status for a period of time. Or provide them with the possibility of more favourable purchases of replacement apartments or, possibly, these apartments in terms of subsidies, loans, interest, prices and others. Such solutions are possible because there is a limited relatively small number of dwellings, but then it is imposed on solving the primary problems related to the housing of socially endangered persons, defenders, young persons, experts and all other groups of citizens who have no apartment at all, and no housing issue at all, while protected tenants in particularly senior housing have such legal status and a settled housing issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38725	Thank you. I am concluding the debate and concluding today's session of the Parliament. Tomorrow he continues at 9:30 a.m. on the agenda announced by the President of the Parliament. Thank you. SESSION Interrupted at 1800 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-09-0.u38726	Proposal for a law on the sale of apartments intended for housing managers. I give the vote the conclusion: The proposal for a law on the sale of apartments intended for residential building supervisors is accepted. Any objections to the proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 87 votes for, 2 abstentions and 4 against the proposed conclusion. How many representatives are in the hall? Is it over 100? [[The intruders don't understand.]] 97. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 The Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic, an infringement of the Rules of Procedure.
