ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u38995	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party, I strongly protest the rights, condemning your calculated reaction in the assembly yesterday regarding Dr. Tonci Tadic not being able to travel to Japan unless he enters the assembly, and I hope that it will not disrupt Croatia's relations with Japan. It was broadcast by Croatian television last night and all the media reported today. Therefore, you have so calculatedly stimulated media speculation that the Croatian party of rights makes the ruling majority when it corresponds to HDZ. I note that HSP is a large party and is neither a puppet nor a HDZ or a SDP. Therefore, I ask you no longer to react and no longer encourage calculated media speculation as to how we will make most of you when it suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u38996	Mr. Kovacevic, you're collapsing. You're making it up. What you're talking about Japan, Toncha Tadic. Tonci Tadic is going to Japan with a delegation, I approved. And what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u38997	Mr. President, look at the video on Croatian TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u38998	Colfabulate, invent, launch all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u38999	That was on HTV's diary last night.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u39000	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u39001	Mr. President, on July 84th, "The People's Journal" published an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, and it's not about correction, it's about amending the Penal Code for a crime of money laundering that the Parliament has never discussed. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, it's not a topic!.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u39002	It's not a theme and you can't, it's not a theme, it's not a theme!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u39003	One more thing! I'd like a break on behalf of the SDP Club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u39004	Ten minutes off! We're continuing with the session, the SDP Club has requested a break. On behalf of the Club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u39006	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP club requested this break to express both the surprise and the protest of this illegality that took place. Namely, the SDP Club is protesting that parliamentary officials are making an amendment to the law on criminal law. Namely, here in the National Journal, this has been carried out under the Institute, i.e. under the firm's correction of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, but it is not about any correction because of the criminal offence referred to in Article 279 of the Money Laundering Act, i.e. the concealment of the illegally obtained money, for paragraph 1 never provided for a penalty. And we, as the SDP Club last year, proposed an amendment to the Penal Code where we predicted exactly the same punishment as is now being imposed by the correction, however, the bill was rejected. Therefore, we express our surprise, our disdain for this illegality that civil servants correct the Penal Code, or make an amendment, to the Penal Code. It's about, again, amending the law, the Penal Code, not any correction. The correction would be if it were some kind of printing mistake, about dropping, but look at the materials that preceded the adoption of such a law and incrimination, so you will see that there has never been a penalty. This has just driven the SDP club to seek amendments to the Penal Code which will provide for fines for money laundering in other amendments. But once again, here's what you see when the government and the parliamentary majority refused that significant change, among them, they didn't even see this kind of change and not the correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u39007	Thank you very much. Enough. You're colfabulating. We are going to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 321 Mr. Markov, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40981	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSS Club, and for the reasons that the Committee on Tourism has not discussed this topic in our opinion, because it was called at 11 am, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes because it is very important that the HSS Club be made manifest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40982	Thank you very much. The parent board and the Committee on Budgets and Finance, so we will proceed with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40983	I asked for a break on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40984	Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40985	For reasons that the club consults on the situation and is manifested in connection with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40986	Ten minutes off. What are you answering for? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Same reason? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. ... HSS, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40988	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. This break has been requested for reasons to explain the reasons that are very important for us at the HSS Club and I believe for other clubs. And they are related to the item on the agenda, and that is to amend the law on value added tax, in the nature of the subject matter which is fully related to services in tourism or tourism at all. That is why we, as president of the Committee, and all our colleagues and colleagues on the Committee, were just aware of these responsibilities that we called today at 11 o'clock a session of the Committee on Tourism with all relevant factors involved in providing services in tourism. Including Czech associations, hotelers' associations, campers' associations, tenants' associations, nautical tourism associations. One very necessary consultation that is necessary in the adoption of such an important law which will definitely affect the macroeconomic indicators for next year, 2006 but will also affect the profitability of individual hotel houses, catering and other tourism-based economies. Therefore, I think it is unserious and even irresponsible that such an important topic is being discussed and that, in my opinion, if we don't call it the parent board, but that the Committee on Tourism is not the most interested committee to discuss tourism, I don't think there's any need to discuss it. Therefore, I repeat, I think that, given that the Committee has been convened, that all representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who responded to the Committee which will be held at 11 o'clock that the entire public has been informed of this, that it would not be directed, that it would not be polite and that it would not be appropriate for tourism or democracy to skip and that we would deafen ourselves to such important and important factors that we should in some way express our views on this Bill proposal and, in some way, clarify whether everyone agrees with such a proposal or not, and at the end of what the profession and knowledge says about this. I'm asking you, Mr. President, to allow the session to be held properly, at 11 o'clock, and after that, to discuss this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40989	Thank you very much. A club of independent agents. Honorable representative Branimir Glavas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40990	Dear Mr President, the Independent Representatives' Club also shares the opinion of the HSS Club and proposes that this debate on the Amendment Law and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act concerning this area be held only after the session has been held. I wonder where Slavonia is, where is that place for all those other segments that refer to this issue and which are specific to Slavonia? I will point out only one example which I find inappropriate that for months already we Slavons are driving in one direction along the Zagreb-Lipovac highway and paying 83 kunas as if we were driving, as if we were on the highway. I wonder who's responsible for the difficult driving conditions of the so-called. The highway where we pay the full price? And the traffic accidents that happen every day on that route. Therefore, it is only one of the indicators that politics is being conducted in a way that meets individual political options in Croatia, not to say that this seriously reminds me of the political trade of the ruling elite with certain segments of political life, individual political parties. I can't help but get the impression that the background is that. And for this reason, I ask that tax reform be thoroughly approached but in general, that the VAT problem be seen as a whole and that decisions are taken in the interest of all economic branches and in the interest of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. I am not against the fact that Istria and other parts of Croatia live better or live well compared to Slavonia and other undeveloped parts of Croatia, but I want the government to run such a policy that those other parts of Croatia, which are now poored, devastated, are burdened with a high unemployment rate and a low gross social product rate, live as well or roughly as those rich parts of Croatia. So I appeal to end this, to postpone this and to approach it with a complete resolution of this problem, which refers to VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40991	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as provided for in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget shall be as follows: in the section of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, they shall send the determination and follow-up of the policy and in the process of passing laws and other regulations shall have the rights and duties of the parent body in areas relating to the tax system and tax policy. This is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, therefore, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget is the home working body and it is sitting and delivering its report as you have. The Committee on Tourism as an interested working body as well as other committees can meet, they can take their stand, you have scheduled it, you do this job, I will not intend to interrupt the session of the Parliament until the meeting of your Committee is completed and you have it, invite it and move on to this Law. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40992	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. What I would like to say at the beginning of the Croatian public is that for almost a year already, consultations have taken place primarily with the workers in the tourism industry, so to speak about amending the law on value added tax. For the first time, the representatives of the Government, therefore, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism of Transport and Development and the Ministry of Finance, spoke in general at a public meeting on the Change of Value Tax Act as regards accommodation or accommodation with breakfast or half-board in the catering facilities at the days of Croatian tourism in Caftat, and last month there was a meeting with all groups in tourism, supported by the largest part of the tourist staff, but I will say something about it later when I explain the bill. But just for the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to say that the consultations have been carried out, there are colleagues from the sea, tourism, transport and development, there is the Secretary of State for Tourism, a man who is daily at all meetings, in contact with tourist workers, therefore something that is already being said, which is being discussed for over a year and at the time when such meetings have been held in public on one taboo topic, and this was the impact of the zero VAT rate on the overall economic situation in tourism was already a major progress and a step in the relationship between those who are interested and the Croatian government that proposes the law. So we suggest introducing reduced rates or unique value added tax rates of 10% on accommodation services with breakfast, half board or full pension in all types of commercial services and facilities and on agency services for the service. Compared to the proposal of the old law, more at a reduced rate or in general, some tourist services would not include tours, transfers to buses and vessels for the simple reason that we believe that extra-board consumption as well as in all other countries that are competitive to Croatia in our environment should not be taxed either at the reference rate or as it was before at zero rate rather than for those non-boarding consumption services, so why should any tour leading foreign tourists to Plitvice, the Roška waterfall, the Lim Channel, what do I know or elsewhere on Biokovo be taxed with a rate of 0 or 10%? Why, like all other tours, don't pay 22% and end up paying that 22% tax not by those agencies, but by these service users. We must finally become aware that Croatia is selling a product that has no country in Europe. Or there's nothing like it. If anyone wants to see the beauty of Croatia then let them pay for it as it is paid everywhere in the world. And no one will complain about that 22% if they see the beauty of the Roška Falls. If he sees the beauty of Plitvice. If he sees the beauty of the interior of Istria. If he sees the beauty of Biokova or not to talk about Dubrovnik, Korčula, Hvar and other pearls that Croatia has. So it's not a problem and those who may most object to these legal changes are agencies and are likely to come from the most objections to this Law. However, what I would like to say is that this amendment to the Law is going towards harmonising the Law on Value Added with the six guidelines of the European Union. So when we look at it, it is also part of the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Also, if we compare what rates on tourism, but also on exactly the same things as we have suggested in our law, we have neighbouring countries or European countries that are in this tourist activity far ahead of us and when we look at what their overall value added tax rate is, then you will see that Croatia is even the most liberal of all. No matter what Greeks have an 8% rate. But we need to see what their overall rate is when they introduced a differentiated rate of tourism. The Spanish have seven, the Irish have 13 and a half, or our nearest Italy has a rate of tourism of 10%. Or if we're going to look at demystifying just as much as in the past period as the hotel has been taxed at a zero rate and we can say that exactly by the regions. So according to the areas that thank certain branches of the regional offices, and we can even say that the situation has coincided with the fact that the area offices of the tax administrations round and certain areas providing tourism, tourist services in the Republic of Croatia so that we can even say that the coincidence coincided that we can very vividly show how much that zero rate worked and how much it affected the development of tourism activity in certain parts of our Adriatic coast and the interior of the Republic of Croatia. So when we look at only hotel accommodation of about six and a half billion kuna as far as it was, I'm talking about 2004, then let's say the marine area has achieved a turnover of 4 billion and 336 million. In the continental part, two billion and 220 million. At zero rate, only 145 million services or slightly less than 7% were taxed in the continental part, and about 45% of accommodation was taxed in this coastal belt. And if we excluded Rijeka, Istria and Dubrovnik from this accommodation then practically the part that, Paga, which covers Karlobag, which covers the territory office of Gospić, Zadar, Šibenik and come Split, would be practically negligible in this entire amount. So when you look at the total traffic in Istria 50% was taxed with a zero rate. Out of the total traffic in Dubrovnik, almost 70% of the accommodation was. However, I have to tell the truth here, someone liked it, didn't like it, but many agencies had an open list, which also included guests who came from Croatia, who didn't pay for this at all, that. Then they later made payments through the "off-sor" company and I am completely responsible for this because it is the findings of the state, state inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. This zero rate that no country in Europe has had, meaning for Croatia organised arrival of tourists outside and foreign exchange payments. Sticung or foreign exchange payments were during the times of Yugoslavia and the day of the start of the Croatian state when Croatia had no normal communication with the business world and when some foreign foreign foreign currency was important. What is logical is that a Croatian citizen pays a summer tax 22%, and that his colleague from all the republics of the former Yugoslavia, from all over Europe, if he comes to spend summers in Croatia without a rate of value added tax, i.e. It's 22% cheaper in the summer. What is logical is that Croatian citizens go to Brežice, Novo Mesto, in Bosnia or elsewhere to pay their holidays to make the fiction of organised tourism and fiction, what is the most important foreign foreign foreign exchange payments. What's the logic in that? Not at all. But that is why now that the introduction of a uniform rate is proposed, not to eliminate a zero rate, but to introduce a single rate for accommodation in tourism, and here we gave one advantage to our tourism activities because if we were to respect literally the SSP guidelines, given that these are countries that entered the European Union both last year and those who entered the first to have a certain transitional period, so we gave them the possibility if they had half-board or full pension arrangements, that and those services are taxed on the 10% rate. So there would be no additional need as far as these services are concerned, and I will immediately add to you the difference between hotels, restaurants and hotels, so the total difference is almost 100% in hotel accommodation, restaurants actually traffic hotels, restaurants and traffic hotels, however the difference in the zero VAT rate as regards joint travel of hotels and restaurants and hotels is, let's say, for this one, to say the marine part of not 100 million kuna. Not a full 100 million kuna. So when we take what's only with hotel accommodation taxed with a zero rate, and what's added to the hotel and restaurant, it's not full of 100 million kunas, so I repeat from the talks primarily from colleagues Mičić and Pende from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and Minister Calmeta with tourist activities from my personal talks and my colleagues from the tax administration, Mr. Mladine and Fabiančić I can only say from our last meeting there was a debate on how differentiated the rate should be. Normally, hotelers would want it to be as small as possible and as normal as possible. However, just as it is normal for the Government to propose a realistic rate which will be something that those involved in this economic activity and on the other hand can bear, which would be optimal and realistic in terms of the state budget. So in that meeting held last week at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport Development, all when we finally defined those initial positions, they gave their consent and their consent to agree with this way of taxation in Croatian tourism alone and, logically, it was the opponents of such taxation that were by nothing, and they were treated by various agencies and tour operators. Because I'm saying it doesn't make sense that if someone wants to see the beauty of Roscoe Falls, Kornati etc. pay at a lower VAT rate because these are pearls not in European but global proportions and ultimately from these money being paid into the state budget will be an investment tomorrow. I have to mention this thing. If this project that we started last year with Opatija, Rijeka, Zadar and Biograd, which is to prevent seawater pollution, it is a project that weighs more than 800 million kuna. If we do not finish this project in the next three or four years, we will question that we will no longer have anything to sell in the tourism economy because the unresolved problem of wastewaters will make most of our seashore suspicious cleanliness. So it is these money that will come into the budget in this way that will allow the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development and units of local self-government, which, on the other hand, have the possibility of funding from the budget, to solve the problem as well. So much for tourism. And the second provision that we propose to amend this law is that the payment deadline and the VAT return deadline are even. Nowhere in the world, in countries where the VAT system has a VAT refund deadline that must be implemented from the budget is no different from that in which the taxpayers are obliged to make payment of VAT after the payment of the bill. And what is another problem is that this VAT return, European experts warned us about the moment VAT was introduced in Croatia, that we need to pay particular attention and attention to VAT control and return. Just the moment the VAT return deadline fell from 30 to 15 days, it was practically very narrowed down to the tax administration to control the VAT return, so I'll tell you just for example last year the tax administration made 8 billion and 800 million kuna returns before tax, this pretax is withdrawing VAT, and this year in six months it's already that amount to 4.9 billion kuna and this clearly says that certain opportunities are being used. But I repeat, I will tell you in the countries of the European Union that the old members are so new, the countries that are now in the negotiations to join the European Union and in the countries that are in our immediate neighbourhood, the deadline for return to the Netherlands and Belgium is 30 days, so these are the old members of the European Union. The deadline for return to Bulgaria, a country which has now practically completed negotiations with the European Union is 45 days, in Slovenia between 60 and 90 days, in a country that is practically in our neighbourhood. In Bosnia and Herzegovina from 30 days to 60 days, they have only introduced a value added tax this year and it is 45 days in Serbia. I know that many today in the debate will be an argument not to accept this, and I want to make it clear at first, that it is a liquidity strike, one way or the other, but the question is what is with equality. Because one basic principle of the tax system is equality. If it is not possible for a person to pay his commitment to the state budget for 30 days then it is illogical that the state must return value added tax within 15 days, but I repeat one of the basic reasons why it is going on this proposal is practically impossible to control the return of value added tax. Because if we want to stick to the transparency of the work of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, if we don't want to put people responsible for paying back the value added tax, we need to allow the supervision to go to the taxpayer and control that request for return. You remember that affair two or three years ago in the district office of Sesvedi when several people from the IRS were fired because a return to one property sale transaction between two companies without external supervision amounting to several million kunas, and the question is that it was a 30-day return period probably would have been carried out without justifying anyone's bad intentions... as an eclectic example. [[You don't understand.]] So let me repeat, let me try to sum up what I've been saying so far. So first, this is the harmonisation of the Value Added Tax Act with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This is the introduction of a rate for one activity that I consider to be the economic locomotive of the Republic of Croatia, that everyone who deals with this business in Croatia has the same conditions and what is most important is that Croatian citizens are not discriminated against in their own country when they go on vacation, so that they pay equal value added tax and what I would like to say, I also proposed this same proposal as the opposition representative when the former minister proposed such a law, because this is something on the trail of what all countries have a far longer tradition of taxing services in tourism. So that's about the taxes on tourism. And as for the amendments to the law to align and the obligations of those who have obligations towards the country and the country which have obligations towards return, so that another thing is equal to those conditions and criteria being fully identical to those of the European Union and if you look at that now when you take all the member states of the European Union and these two countries Romania and Bulgaria that will become members of the European Union and of the countries in our environment, Croatia has the shortest time to recover VAT from all of them. So these are reasons that have also been encouraged by the restoring ministries, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer this bill to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. Thank you very much. And just, excuse me, let me get this straight. This rate of tax on accommodation in, accommodation or accommodation services with breakfast with half or full board and agency services that are related to it would be applied from 1.1.2006. I would also like to say that at a meeting of the Committee for the Preparation of the Tourist Season a month, a month and a half ago in Opatija, we gave an indication to all tourist activities that the Government is preparing for such a step and is preparing to pass such a bill before the summer so that all those negotiating the arrangements for the following year can also calculate this in the price of their offer. The whole business is therefore coordinated with those concerned, as is the case with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40993	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40994	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, it is incorrect that foreign tourists will or won't object to VAT height, because when they see beauty in Croatia, it is the fact that most of these foreign tourists don't even know how high VAT is. They object or want to come or will not come to Croatia because of the price of services both the pension and the quality of the services.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40995	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Honorable Representative, President of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40996	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. For the sake of truth in the introduction, I must say that the Tourism Committee was agreed this morning at 9am and for reasons unknown to me it was transferred by 11. And let me read the position of the Finance Committee as the parent board. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 34th session held on 12 July 2005. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 8 July 2005. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. In the introduction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act abolished 0 value added tax on the services of organised residence paid by foreign transfers. It is proposed to pay VAT at 10% rate for accommodation services with breakfast, half board or full pension in all types of commercial, catering and services, agency commissions for the above mentioned services. Those provisions would apply from 1 January 2006. In addition to the proposed extension of the value added tax period from 15 to 30 days from the date of submission of the tax application, it was proposed. The Committee's debate supports amendments and additions to the law in question, however, opinions have been expressed which warn that the abolition of the 0 value added tax on the services of organised stay paid by remittances from abroad has been delayed since some travel arrangements with abroad have already been completed or concluded, so this Law will have adverse consequences for the next tourist season. The Committee supported the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure in order to comply with the legal gains of the European Community. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote 6 for, and 2 against proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40997	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The club of IDS MPs, the respected representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40998	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. If you had given us perhaps during yesterday to read this Law, perhaps we could have avoided all those recommendations that occurred during the morning. I have the impression that this law corresponds to Istria and that it should be supported. Why? Here it explains that the change in the calculation rate and now the introduction of 10% in 2006 can be expected to reduce the state budget by around 100 million kuna. In fact, it's not about 100 million kunas, but about 134 million kunas, which will say that the Istrian economy could fall between 50 million and 70 million kunas. I clearly hope that this profit, "gets" will be reinvested that it will not be drawn from tourist facilities, and I would even more like to pay the profits according to the places where it is achieved, and not for example that Poreč Riviera is paying the profits to the city budget of Zagreb. The differentiated rate applies to accommodation or accommodation services with breakfast, half or full pension in all types of commercial catering facilities and agency commission services to the above mentioned services. The pension service includes accommodation and 3 meals breakfast, lunch, dinner, half board accommodation with breakfast and one of the other meals. Commercial catering facilities are considered hotels, apartment hotels, tourist resorts, pensions, campsites, holiday homes, rooms, apartments for rent, rooms, etc. In one word, we can even agree that this is the Camping Law, which is 70 to 80% of the tourism offer in Istria. By abolishing the 0 value added tax as it stands here in the light of the services of organised residence paid by foreign money, I said that it should mean a deficit in the state budget of 100 to 134 million kuna. If so, that money must remain a tourist economy. On the other hand, we can all agree that this is one short law, an important law that certainly affects tourism in that area from this narrow regional position, the law has only three provisions, but the point is that I said that this zero VAT rate is abolished and that tax returns are no longer being carried out within 15 days. In 97, IDS was the first party in this Parliament to propose differentiated VAT rates. We then proposed a rate of 22% as a general rate, then a tourist hospitality as we called it of 11%, now a 10%, and a social rate of 5%. The social rate was later appointed at 0, however, and it should also be recognised that there is no country to apply, so as to express the 0 VAT rate. Croatia is an exception, however, when we have it or when we have it on bread, milk, etc., it should be kept clearly today. What we suggested was 97, before the law came into force. On the other hand, I think we will all agree that Croatian tourism is in trouble at this time, and that should be understood. It should be understood that from 2, 3, possibly 4 months in northwestern counties, I mean first of all here in Istria and Primorje-goranska simply can't live. Croatian tourism at this time is a low-accumulated branch, in 15 years, or rather in the last 15 years on our coast up from Savudrija, via Pula, Opatija to Dubrovnik, counting here nearly 3,4 thousand kilometers of coast around our islands and cliffs has not built three new hotels. I repeat, it's not on those 4,500 miles of our coast built in 15 years by three new hotels, and it's a tragedy. There are no foreign investment gentlemen, mostly apartments, half of Dalmatian tourism is still in huge losses, their facilities are unrenewed, the same thing with Brijuni, the huge potential that stands unused, maybe something will happen eventually in Barbariga. What is a tragedy for Croatian tourism at this time almost nobody is interested, more specifically large representative houses, powerful houses, are not interested. I said half of the Dalmatian tourism has not been restored yet. For some tourist houses no one is showing interest, and this law should be fair, it will hit the English, Swedish, Danes on one side, however, after what happened to London 7.7 of this place, and unfortunately less British people will travel but what is proposed condemns one of the tourist groups, only one of those associations of Croatian travel agencies. So globally speaking, at least from this narrow regional aspect of this legislative proposal is more favourable, but the Croatian Travel Agency Association has serious objections to this bill. They turned to the application and tasked parliamentary representatives in some way to react. They ask that the application of differentiated rates be extended to circular tours, transfers, land trips from cruise ships as well as to agency commissions and in connection with these services have also come to me with a letter which I will try to read in one part where they suggest that by introducing such changes extremely harmful to the entire tourist sector, not only to travel agencies, and there is also a request from the Parliamentary Committee on Tourism on which Mr Markov spoke about something to consider this situation, to take appropriate measures. When it was learned that a change in the zero rate for organised traffic was being made for a part of the hotel that could no longer wait was signed by contracts under current regulations while the second part suspended the signing. It is known that so far from taxing at 22% were the exclusive services of organised transport of payments from abroad, they included pension and circular travel services of the transfer of guests and land trips from cruise ships, agency commissions and to the services of contracted care for individual guests and supervision of the realisation of the programme and quality of service provision are usually paid in exchange means of commission. Under the proposed amendment of the law, all of these services, apart from pension services, would have collected 22% plus 3 to 5% for the usual price increase due to inflation, which means 25 to 27%. If on circular voyages and on cruises, ships, yachts, sailboats, pension services are accounted for at a differentiated rate of 10%, and they expect it to be so and that the parliamentary board will support circular travel would collect 17,5 plus 3 to 5% for inflation. So, about 20 to 22%. Since foreign travel organisers, they state here, because of their business technology they must add their margin of at least 25%, this means that the increase in prices for end-users abroad will be 31 to 33%, or if the accommodation service on circular voyages and on board the ship would be calculated at a differentiated rate as a fixed facility by about 25 to 28% and those from the Association of these travel agencies hold that this impact on prices will certainly reduce the consumption of this type of service in the Republic of Croatia and thus the general competitiveness of Croatian tourism. But I'll do it again. Viewed narrowly regionally this legislative proposal deprives 134 million kunas of the County of Istria, and it is considered that hoteliers or other renters in the area, it is now not important whether they are holiday houses, peasant households etc., could generate additional income from 50 to 70 million kuna. If so, she will vote for this proposal by the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u40999	Thank you very much, colleague. We have an announcement. A meeting of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament is cancelled, which was scheduled for 11 hours. And another notice. The 33rd session of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction will be held on Wednesday 13 July at 13:30 in the Chamber "Ivan Kukuljevic" president of the Committee Dragutin Pukleš. One correction to an incorrect quote, and on behalf of the proposer, Minister Schuker. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41000	Thank you very much. counterpart Cain said Croatia is an exception in Europe because it has a zero VAT rate. Yes, a colleague, Croatia is an exception also by having destroyed the entire economy, having war on its premises, having destroyed the entire economy from the results of war destruction and having to introduce a zero rate especially for the areas from Istria and to the south of Croatia to stand on their feet and that they too can deal with the activity and commit to life. And that's why the zero rate was introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41001	My colleague Markov, you and I both know that this was not a correction to an incorrect assumption but an opinion that we may or may not have to agree with. Minister, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41002	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just for the sake of other clubs who'll probably discuss it later. To clarify, the accommodation service on circular voyages and on ships that are not tied in the marina will be also taxed at 10% VAT. However, it is illogical if someone comes and binds the boat in the marina and practically sleeps in it that it is not a boat rental and is no circular trip.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41003	Thank you very much. A colleague of Marks, a correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41004	Well, I don't agree with Mr. Secretary's colleague that if someone has their own boat and he serves it as an accommodation potential that at least according to our classification, it's considered to be his overnight stay because nowhere else but there. Therefore, he will likely enjoy a differentiated rate. He won't? So, you're interpreting that the one that night on the boat he shouldn't be in the ship but.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41005	I'm asking you nicely, my colleague Markov and Mr. Minister, you're polymizing from the scene. The Rules of Procedure have been set up so that we can discuss and disagree and disagree with the rules of procedure. So please. Did you want ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41006	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41007	But you can't now, you can't until after the next MP. I can believe you're right, but by the book.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41008	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41009	I can't give you my word. I would have made a business mistake. On behalf of the HSP Club Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41010	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! This is a historic day for the Croatian Parliament and the Ministry of Finance. For the first time in Croatia, the finance ministry is proposing a VAT rate. So far, it's been more sacrilegious to even think, let alone suggest, because one of the sacred rules of the Ministry of Finance was that there was only one among the rates, one rate of VAT and zero rate. The rate was simply unimaginable. So far, it's unimaginable that Croatia is introducing a VAT rate for something. Why do some countries have a VAT rate and some do not? It is simply because most of the European countries, by introducing VAT, actually repainted an existing system of sales tax that is among the rates and then gained a VAT rate for it. However, as Croatia has always been an experimental country, we have also been experimented with VAT, so we are among the few with Denmark, so only Denmark has one rate with Croatia and this is so high. Therefore, only Croatia introduced only one VAT rate without one rate and then started introducing certain zero rates afterwards. So this is already in itself a sensation. So, in Croatia, it happened that the Ministry of Finance proposed a VAT rate. The second question is, what has been going on between the rates so far? When a person reads this about what it was all about, the conclusion is that it was actually related to all the services that were involved during the stay of organized guests, so if it was included in the service of abdominal dancers, massages, acrobats, court crazys and others, even though it was shown as part of an organised stay, it was paid a zero VAT rate. Moreover, the Croatians could use this privilege if they paid for their vacation in Pancheva, Orasje or Nagykaniza then it was an organised tourist economy, then it was an organised tourist stay abroad. So, it is truly cartoonal and it leads us to one fundamental question whether it is really possible that Croatian tourism is only profitable when it does not pay any tax. Or who in Croatia thought that you could do some sort of activity and not pay taxes. Well, it's just in itself understandable not. Watch out, you're working, there's no tax. So it just can't work like that. Based on insight into sales revenue abroad and calculated VAT, from my own analysis in 2002 alone, Croatia lost 655 million kuna in the state budget. Look, we've been having a rough debate here yesterday about the rebalancing that overtook that two million, that three million, over here 20 million, over here 10 million, and yearly we've lost 655 million kuna for this. Only 2002 later and more. So what it actually looked like when it was compared along the Adriatic coast. Of course, where there were more organised tourists, the effective rate of VAT paid was lower. Thus, by 2001, in the first 10 months, the Neptune hotel in Dubrovnik paid an average VAT rate of 13%, Sunny Hvar 10%, Zlatni Rat 5.5%, Caftat d.d. hotels, 8.3%, Istria tourist 12%, Laguna Novigrad 13%. So I'm talking about when you compare how many organized tourists paid 0% of VAT and those individual who paid 22% of VAT you actually get one effective VAT rate. And the evasive rate of VAT in 2001 was 12.29%. Now it may be even more because more and more individual guests are coming to the Adriatic. First of all, the highway was developed, secondly there are super fast and ferry catamorans that simply re-emerged tourism on the Middle Dalmatian islands. Two, three times a week you have a real destination, ancons and sandboxes and there will certainly be more and more individual guests. Therefore, we can safely say that the effective VAT rate in tourism today is not 12.29% as it was in 2001, but it may be 12.7, perhaps 13%. So these are the facts. We can now listen to the moaning of certain parts of the tourist economy but what is important for us in HSP is something else and that is the ratio of VAT to employment rates in these economic branches. There is a wonderful study of the restaurant and cafe bars in Europe. And it shows, for example, how she traded for Ireland. As Ireland experimented with VAT rates, Irish tourism employment changed. Of course, the VAT rate was lower employment was higher. And that's the math that's completely clear. The same goes for restaurants. So, what is it really about? It's no invention, it's just facts and they don't all have this kind of rate that's proposed here and they don't just have it for accommodation, they have it for food and drink. So let's say France has 5.5% rates on hotels, Greece has 8%, Italy has 10%, Spain has 7%, Malta has 5%. Therefore, our competition at the Mediterranean actually has a rate of about 8% on the Monday. As for the restaurant, France has as much as 19.6, Greece 8, Italy 10, Spain 7 and Malta 15, so there would be about 10% of the restaurants there. For cafes, it's about the same as restaurants. Therefore, if we really want to equalise our tourism with competition in the Mediterranean, then let us be correct and not take a half step but take a full step and even it in all services. I know that you will now say it is difficult to define coverage, however it is difficult to define coverage here, because you will automatically forget ships for circular trips on which tourists sleep, so as soon as they sleep on board, it means paying the cost of accommodation but if you are going to take that step then please really extend this em to the average of at least our competition on the Mediterranean because then we will really succeed what our goal is and it is to equate the Croatian tourist economy with the conditions of its competition on the Mediterranean. One more thing that's bothering us here, it's about what's been going on since January 1st of next year. So the prices for next season are already agreed. They're agreed at fairs that were through this spring, because everything is being arranged for next year. According to this, we are afraid that the introduction of this without some transitional period may be bad because they have already agreed on prices, agreed on margins, agreed on a way of doing business, agreed on how to pay, and we are now putting all this together, I would say, in question. So that's what we should have taken care of. This move should have been made at the beginning of this year. It's not Cain alone and I'm here on behalf of HSP and many others have insisted on introducing amongst the rates, but it's been more sacrilegious in the Parliament so far, let alone suggest by the ministry. If you'd done all this together at the beginning of the year, I don't think there'd be any cry from anyone in tourism because they'd be going into all possible income accounts next year, and with that they could be more cheap and competitive by the next season. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and we're getting into this together right now, actually. Finally, our Club has also proposed a conclusion that does not directly refer to VAT in tourism but applies to VAT in general and I ask that the Government actually takes account of it. So we insist on equating all scientific institutions and higher education institutions under the obligation to pay VAT. The colleges aren't in the VAT system, the institutes are. And secondly, stop charging VAT on funds obtained from international projects because all projects included those of the international Atomic Energy Agency, or those from... The European Union or NATO's scientific programmes are inadmissible from financing the state budget and cannot be charged with VAT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm asking you nicely to propose by autumn the amendments to the law, so that everyone in science is leveled by VAT and that VAT is not paid for international scientific projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41011	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. Comrade Markov, please correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41012	Thank you very much. counterpart Tadic said that the zero rate generated tax evasion that could have put anything and everything through it. It is incorrect that she generated tax evasion, then generated the current state of tourism that we have. So progress in tourism that has resulted in both better and better tax collection. And in addition to this, the thesis that this differentiated rate that is introduced means a higher rate than zero is not generated by an increase in the state budget but by a reduction in the state budget by 100 million. So there's something unclear about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41013	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41014	Dear Madam Vice President, it is incorrect that counterpart Tadic claimed it is unimaginable in one branch that one activity is whether, not paying the tax. If VAT is not paid, or if the VAT rate is zero on a particular activity, that does not mean that other taxes are not paid. And precisely the zeroth rate in tourism simply in a war-desperated Dalmatia she simply gave a big swing about what she was just talking about, or mentioning her colleague Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41015	Thank you very much. Correction of my colleague Cain's incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41016	I agree with Mr Tadic that the biggest problem of this law is timing when it is adopted or when it will be adopted. But there's something else I want to say. It is necessary to clearly find a modus for Croatian travel agency associations that VAT on food from, that the state with a rate of 22% was incomed or would receive 179 million kuna, and this is what 70 million kuna will do. That's minus 109 million kuna, and that money's gonna stay somewhere. They'll stay with those who deal with these services clearly. And the zero rate is also the rate. That's also to be admitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41017	The objection was not a correction. It was an opinion. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41018	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act as well as its adoption by emergency procedure. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the introduction of a differentiated value added tax rate in tourism or in part of basic catering services, holding it as one of the most significant macroeconomic measures that create even more competitive conditions of business for Croatian tourism. This proposal for a law makes it very clear and unequivocal to tourism that belongs to it as one of the strategic activities of the Croatian economy. Although it was clear back in 2000 that tourism needed a differentiated rate as this was the case in almost all of us competitive European countries at the time, the government had no power by managing short-term budgetary needs to propose a lower VAT rate for tourism but resorted to a solution which, according to estimates, had a minimal almost neutral impact on the budget. A zero rate has been introduced per part of services in foreign-organised tourism traffic paid by foreign transfers. However, the zero VAT rate was applied in organised transport only to part of foreign tourists. Foreign guests who come individually and all domestic guests are excluded. Those accommodation facilities that do not have organised tourism traffic have also been excluded so that the campsites are practically left entirely behind, which has led to structural disturbances in the tourism sector that have negative consequences in the long term for the overall development of tourism. This situation caused the orientation of the highest quality accommodation capacity in hotels only to one market segment or group of foreign organised tourist transport, which led to structural disturbances in the tourism sector and are the most important: hotels avoided domestic travel agencies for foreign markets. The hotels stepped up beds to domestic travel agencies for domestic markets. Hotels, and by doing so, agencies that provide higher prices for domestic guests, are becoming absurd that domestic guests are buying arrangements for Croatia at lower prices on foreign markets, and especially in the nearest neighbouring countries of the former Yugoslavia. Foreign individual guests pay prices with taxes while foreigners who come organised do not pay taxes which are again favourable to agencies as intermediaries. Economic companies providing similar services for domestic and foreign guests are in a tax disadvantage. Finally, there is a significant tax ejaculation showing foreign guests as organised arrivals from abroad. In view of the fact that the zero VAT rate in tourism was to be introduced when a temporary solution was to be introduced and in accordance with the practice in other tourist countries and the need to bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation, the directive on harmonisation of the Law in relation to VAT in the Member States of the European Union is laid down, we believe that it is necessary to introduce a differentiated VAT rate on a part of the tourist services. In particular, we have a good solution to apply the differentiated rate of VAT of 10% to accommodation or accommodation services with breakfast, half or full board in all types of commercial catering facilities and agency commission services to these services. And to conclude: The Croatian Democratic Community's club holds that contrary to the structural and market disturbances that were present in the tourism sector, this proposed differentiated VAT rate brings a number of positive effects for Croatian tourism. First of all, the tax is equal to domestic and foreign guests. Taxes are taxed by guests who come organised and individually. The terms of business of domestics with foreign travel agencies shall be evened. All types of commercial accommodation facilities are taxed, tax ejaculation is reduced and the work and supervision carried out by tax authorities and future investors is facilitated by a long-term stable tax system in accordance with other countries and competitive conditions are created for the business of the Croatian tourism, tourism economy. Finally, the adoption of the urgent procedure of this Act is fully considered justified, and this is because the process of contracting accommodation facilities for 2006 has already begun and it was necessary for this Law to enter into emergency, emergency procedure. Likewise in the end, but no less important in the context of the proposal of this Law, we have seen that the direct income of the state budget is projected to be reduced by around 100 million kuna through the application of this Law. But we point out that this applies and that this is strictly about static viewing. By applying the bill to the existing species and the number of services and we are certainly keeping the long-term dynamic view that the overall effect of this Law will be positive, that it will reflect positively on the budget and encourage activity in tourism, and above all it will affect a lot of what is now in the grey, grey economy zone. The Croatian Democratic Community Club also supports the provision of a law extending the tax refund period from 15 days to 30 days, and that is precisely why not just for the equalisation of the state and taxpayer's obligations but primarily because the extension of this tax administration allows for proper supervision and control of value added tax accounting, thus reducing space again to the gray tax zone. Because of all of this in front of the issue, and mainly in order to level our legislation with the legislation of the European Union, so that we do not force our citizens to go abroad to buy arrangements to summer in their country and on their sea. We also support the fact that we are reducing the application of this law to the space of the gray economy. We support the adoption of these amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act. And in the end, I'd say it's another good law, and what we've seen from Mr. Tadic's analysis. If the VAT revenue reduction is foreseen for, direct VAT revenue by 100 million kuna, this would mean that employment will increase in tourism, and that is one very good reason to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41019	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first correction is a colleague of Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41020	Thank you. It is completely incorrect that colleague Lovrin claimed that this measure, namely this bill, is one incentive for Croatian tourism. That the incentive is why there is no zero rate for organised Croatian tourists to do so. So you're one addition, what everyone who's dealing with this activity is going to feel, and you want to show it as a good measure. Really brave. Secondly, you claim that the last government had no power. She had abilities, and she was a government really reformer. But the truth is, we've never kept up much of the raw power. And this measure, which was introduced by the coalition government, made it possible for foreigners, foreign tourists, as well as domestics to come to Dalmatia where there was almost no one, because by 2000 almost neither we had anywhere to go nor who was coming to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41021	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. That goes for the minister, too. Representative Jurjević rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41022	The esteemed vice president is not the correct quote from counterpart Lovrin that the zero rate introduced on organised arrivals from abroad has had no effect on tourism. I note that almost all of Dalmatia is operating in the hotel today with 60 to 80% of organised arrivals from abroad, that this measure was introduced in 2001, that it works for four years, that it was introduced under specific conditions. I'm not saying it doesn't need to change, but our proposal would be an 8% rate, but you can't say now that this measure didn't make sense. It has helped both Croatia and tourism workers and Dalmatia where I come from. And you can't say that she didn't make sense, because she was introduced in the best sense, she had effects and she did it. And that, because we don't have to spit on each other, but we have to agree on what's better for the people who voted for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41023	Thank you very much, colleague. We're moving on to the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, counterpart Ante Markov. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41024	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we at the HSS Club don't intend to lead through this debate of closed-door politics or black-and-white politics. One is bad, the other is good and close the door between one and the other. I think it's wrong. Tourism isn't like that first, he doesn't deserve it. Tourism brings people together, ideas, and those who think differently. I want to return first to the context of introducing a zero VAT rate, in the context of 2001. Tourism positions in 2001, site positions at a time when 37% of the capacity is not active gentlemen in Dalmatia. At a time when the broadcasting tourism markets for Croatia almost do not exist. Since the '90s, you've had a devastating system of tour operations. You have a devastation system of tourism mediators intervening between Europe and the world and Croatia. You have a war situation that has stopped communication. Meanwhile, tourism in neighbouring countries has grown competitively both by potential and by all means. Croatia was to return to the market touristically. Croatia should have won what it lost. Croatia was supposed to restore what was destroyed. In such a situation the zero rate of gentlemen does not represent what you are saying here. It is a normal reaction from the government responsible that we try to get back into play with fiscal policy measures and serious economic policy. It is not a way of thinking about what is being discussed today, of the integrity of the fiscal system, of tax reform. It was a necessary measure to return the Croatian tourist product to the European stage and the measure succeeded. Evidence of the level and tourist traffic and the state of tourist facilities and the reputation Croatia has today in the world and the positions we take and the epithet of the most attractive tourist destination is in favour of the fact that the targeted policy has succeeded. This is in principle and therefore absolutely no one predicted that the zero rate would remain as a permanent form of tax viewing on tourism, but absolutely it had accomplished its most important task, and the most significant task was to attract organised tourism traffic from the broadcasting markets of Europe. Why? Well, Istra wasn't full of individuals at that time either. So there was no habit of coming to Croatia either from France or from the Netherlands or Belgium. There was a tradition of coming from traditional Germany, Austria and Italy. It was supposed to open up the markets. Markets do not open individual guests or small agencies, the market opens a serious policy of operatting, serious marketing policy, organised action from the ministry to the Croatian tourist community, as well as proposition from prices. And just organized traffic led not only to the arrival of guests but to a particular investment cycle that opened, reactivated those 37% of unactivated capacities in tourism that existed exclusively clearly in the area of Dalmatia and Dubrovnik. Therefore, the question is: Have we reached that level of position in the international market as regards organised traffic that we can with full responsibility make the price of services, if this law is passed since 1.1, that is to say, in response already through contracts, rises by 17%. Can we handle it? Will competition make it impossible for us to be proactive about it? Can the guests of the tourist and hotel houses take it upon themselves? These are the questions we have to answer. As a result, it would be quite appropriate for one expert on events, facts, mathematics, what is happening, and what are the resulting links. I have a very unargumented thesis that the revenue from the budget will be reduced by adopting such measures when the zero rate is accused that it is the reason why it is not filling the budget, that tourism pays nothing, the tourism services are seen in a narrow sense. Tourism what we're talking about is all about 35% if it's 35%, everything else is a fully open market for which a guest who spends and pays 22%, if it wasn't for that guest there wouldn't be 22% in the 75%. Therefore, it should be fully and responsibly discussed and this measure is too serious to break over the knee, this measure is too serious not to allow a serious public debate that was to be held at the Croatian Parliament at 11 o'clock, and I now have to apologize to all representatives of the Croatian Association of Hotelers, Association of Campers of Croatia, Association of Nautical Tourism, Association of Renters, Association of agencies that are invited to come to Zagreb to talk responsibly about what moderation to accept, whether to add to the upcoming model certain instruments that will give tourism to breathe and the budget not to lose and strengthen on the world tourist market. It was precisely an invitation for all of us to discuss this responsible topic together and there was no goal of political accounting or closing the door to anyone, and this welcome idea of the Government of Croatia to create a game of social sensitivity by introducing differentiated rates, as well as a commitment to the market to compete on world markets with those who have the same conditions of business. And finally, the crucial pain of Croatian tourism gentlemen was not even the number of nights, nor the number of arrivals of guests or board days, but was outside of the board spending, outside of the board spending was exactly the part and segment of Croatian tourism that repeatedly pointed out that we do not have an adequate offer or have no price policy good or we do not have marketing policy good but lacked the effect of Croatia when viewed in macroeconomic indicators, by the number of guests there was always 30-40% of the contribution that should have been made through outside pension facilities, and outside of the pension content is not only important in terms of budgetary resources in terms of income but is important in terms of the offer and this offer is one of the major shortcomings that Croatian tourism has so far shown. I am, of course, comparing the Croatian model of this title, which introduces a differentiated rate of 10% and applies to accommodation services, half boards and other forms, something approximately that was not fully covered by 0 feet, we cannot say that we are on the trail of European solutions because there are absolute accommodation services taxed somewhere on a level of 6 or 8 somewhere around 10 but restaurant services are taxed at 7%, car transport, car transport 7 to 10%. And a whole series of differences, these differences will not reduce the contribution that will take place in the state budget but rather by empowering and expanding the branches that will participate in tourism will have a significant shift in the Republic of Croatia's budget. But of course we expect from tourism what he can't give, we expect him to say our structural problems, we call him when we need him that, as his colleague Chehok said, that two, three months of tourism can't put us in a position that we all live well, of course he can't. Tourism and not that, tourism is the possibility that we have and that we need to know how to use and with our resources as much as possible to cover the needs of that market for certain goods, for certain products and services. It is a market that Croatia has, which does not use enough, it is a matter of strategy that we have, because if we had a designed strategy then we wouldn't have such important laws that are intruding into fiscal policy to bring to the challenger in one time conflict between us and those who are waiting for the adoption of this law, those who have already signed contracts and are now strutting to realize already realised contracts and you all know well that most hotel houses in long-term co-operation with your partners from outside have already regulated their obligations, therefore, what we at the HSS Club expect at the very least, and already said from other clubs is the introduction of differentiated rates but fully designed with all the positions that tourist services cover. DA opens space to strengthen outside pension facilities, but not to close the space to those areas in Croatia which are organised tourism gentlemen are still primary. The South of Croatia and Central Dalmatia without an organised contribution, without organised tourism traffic, will not have a degree of progress but will become more lagging. I agree that Istria responds fully to this proposal, they have reached their platform in terms of tourism, they have their own policy, they have begun to structure those forms of tourism that they believe can have this kind of reduction especially in camps where so far it has been 22 to 10%, they will absolutely bring them extra profits that they will likely be able to invest. However, we must keep in mind that the relationship in southern Croatia, in central Dalmatia, is not such that individuals do not participate but is exactly the opposite of Istria and the other part in relation to the organized and individual part of the guests. Individual guests come alone they pay more in nature than organized guests but they are sensitive to weather they are sensitive to every event, while the organized guest in the package arrangement is a safe guest, whether rain, not rain. But he's exploring new areas, behind him come individuals. Therefore, is this quite fair to say that the Istrian tourism economy will be higher than this proposal of the law and that we will in this way reduce the opportunities for further positioning on the tourist market or as much as possible, and that we will reduce the current scope of Dalmatia and the south of Croatia. Therefore, we need to be absolutely just and clear and familiar with the facts that can happen in this way and I believe a good and proper attempt to differentiate rates for tourism services. We must be fully aware, and that is why the proposal of the HSS Club is going to be that the period when we introduce and change the differentiated rates but carefully analysing the effects and the reasons and consequences of being 1. 1. In 2007, the rate to be introduced for tourism, accommodation, half board and pension is 8% but to introduce other differentiated rates exactly as the model for the European Union and for the example of the countries surrounding us and who are our direct competitors. I therefore believe that, in this regard, we can also find common positions in the interest of tourism and in the interest of the Croatian budget, both in terms of treatment and in terms of the time when it is discussed, which is that the application of the law of a different order is delayed by 1. 1. In 2007, believe it will be welcomed by everyone because then it can be with full responsibility and with certain calculations that would follow this tourist season can be done completely by a new form of functioning of the tax and fiscal system within the framework of tourism and perhaps not just within it. As far as the end goes, I'm saying that there's a zero-foot charge that people go out there, they pay in Bosnia, I don't know where. So there's surveillance and control that needs to eliminate the possibility of illegal action. Of course, if you go to the supermarket today and don't pay for something you can't say someone else did it except you, you did a felony. It's also an illegal act if you go to Bosnia and pay for the arrangement but I think surveillance and control can also determine such forms of illegal behaviour. Therefore, we cannot eliminate the shortcomings by confirming these same shortcomings but by removing the reasons for which they arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41025	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41026	I'll correct a series of incorrect allegations just one quote. In fact, Mr Markov said that the Croatian Government does not have a clear vision and strategy for the development of Croatian tourism because I claim that Croatia has a clear vision and the document is called the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy by 2010, and this bill is also contained in part of this strategy and can be found on page 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41027	Thank you. And another correction by the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41028	Thank you, Mr. President. Representative Markov said that this measure is too serious to break over the knee, which is not true. This law is a good law, Minister Schuker is well prepared, and also Mrs. Ana Lovrin, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, explained this very well. But what's interesting about his presentation is that when the zero rate was introduced in 2001 was a devastation system, Croatia needed some new actions, it was a necessary measure to bring tourism back to the European country. Targeted policy has succeeded. And what did that do? It worked that domestic tourists, so my Slavons had to pay 22% and foreign tourists 0%. If it was a targeted policy then you were really... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41029	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41030	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club will propose the conclusion that the law goes into second reading and we assess that the law is in part acceptable to the SDP Club, we assess and this is a shift that should be made in the tax system and we would be happy to join the support of the law. But we appreciate that much more needs to be done, and that is why we will try to offer the parliamentary majority that we are talking about in two readings and try to professionally resolve the dilemmas that are emerging, I would say between the SDP Club and the parliamentary majority. I would say the greatest value of this law that we may not even be aware of is because today we break all those who claim that it cannot be among the rates in the Croatian value added tax system. I even remember Minister Shuker who knew and said there is a European directive that suggests in Europe one step. True, the coalition government failed to bring down expert discussions on the subject one step and between the rates. Since the introduction of VAT to this day, no one has been successful in breaking the profession that fought for one foot. And I think that on behalf of the SDP Club, we must commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has succeeded in imposing it at a rate. And on behalf of the SDP Club, we congratulate the government on that success. And it is evident that we will now be able to deal with social problems and other problems with amongst the rates. And it's obvious that the other five or six zero rates we have are going to be able to change and show the social direction with tax policy. The zero rate not only on tourism but also on food and other goods traffic was because no one in Croatia was able to calculate with a profession that firmly defended one rate. And that's why power, the quality of the law, is exactly what it is. The Croatian government has succeeded and thus opened a new chapter in tax policy. And that's what the SDP Club wants to praise, it wants to support, and it really wants to be on the trail of these initiatives but remains that within that are the possibilities of ongoing expert discussions. To talk about what tourism is, how important it has I would say at one deficit and that is the balance of payments deficit of the Republic of Croatia there is no need. That's the highest value. The most dangerous deficit in Croatia is the current deficit in the payment account. And the value of tourism is immeasurable because the foreign exchange inflow is enormous. What is also worth recording if you are looking at the continental counties of the Republic of Croatia, aware that they must raise the height of the GDP or social product per capita more and more are turning to tourism, continental tourism because Croatia has these values on the continent and we did not design it well, we did not make good use of it. And it is evident that the continent also has this challenge that the tourism economy can contribute to the development of these continental counties and that it can secure an even greater foreign exchange inflow of the Republic of Croatia. And obviously tourism is an economic branch that must have a special tax treatment. Since we failed to fight for the rate, it was a zero rate now that we have a solution because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has fought it we have one at a time. The question remains how much to give that support, whether 10, whether 8, whether 7, whether 6, whether more differential rates for hotels 6, 5, for not knowing food and hospitality 8, and various services 11-12. These are topics that should be discussed until the second reading. That's why we're proposing a second reading. We can make a deal if we're going to go to one and we're going to evaluate which is it or we're going to go to more and then there's not going to be any injustice between a domestic tourist and a foreign tourist. Therefore, we estimate that the SDP Club will go with the NOS amendment. We don't know if we're right. Why? Neither enough expert debates nor the possibility of seeing whether more differential rates are possible and then finding better solutions and that takes two, three months of talks and the state, and the finance minister, and I would say to the competent Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs, Tourism, and of course I would say interested in the future of tourism. That's why we fight for another reading. At this point, we're going with one solution. Trying to show that we're not going to go to the lowest possible, and that's 5% I'd say interstop, but we're going to go to 8 because we're going with one because we haven't even been able to talk to the Ministry of Finance, so he sees if it's possible more inter-step. We also see no reason why we do not respect the demands of the tourism industry and the tourism people we suggest do not touch in 2006, let's not. Why don't we? Well, because the contracts are closed. Let us be honest, many and many companies do not have to change the prices for next year and if change occurs. 1. 2006. Why? Well, something's going to make a 10% profit on domestic tourists, lose on the sides, so maybe it won't matter. But part of them will change the prices, part of them will change, it will be a negative message to foreign broadcasting areas, it will be inconclusive and irresponsible. This may be a message and whether Croatia is giving more support to tourism, because it is how analysts evaluate us and we do not see the need to suddenly rush and try to change in 2006. And that's why we're suggesting that in 2006, we go to 2007 and say that we can make all these changes. We respect the demands of the economy's economies. Let's listen to them a few times, I think even the government has opened offices where they want to hear the voice of taxpayers' citizens, so let's try to listen to them. Let's not impose our solutions on them. So these are the two points that we are trying to understand here, the two points that we want to discuss, we want to discuss because we are assessing that this quality bill is a change in tax policy. Therefore, once again we refer this appeal to the promoter that in some way we are in line with the business of our competitors in the Mediterranean, to try, I would say that we will not have special stimuli in the fight for the competitiveness of our economy because giving a zero rate compared to the other competitors in the Mediterranean means that this Croatia that has problems, which has deficits, I would say the possibility that our tourism will be more competitive or I would say more unfair in that game. We do not need this because we estimate that today we have a capable tourist economy for the Mediterranean market. And now what I have to say is that we will not be able to support and assess that it is very dangerous, because in this debate and the fight for tourism, we may have turned our attention to Article 2. The law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law, the SDP Club estimates as a very difficult proposal from We estimate that this is an indication that there was a recession in Croatia. Yeah, that's the weight of Article 2. The fall in economic activity, the fall in liquidity, the inability to pay, the fear of the finance ministry that it won't be easy to raise funds. It's all called recession. In the recession, the state wants to take care of itself and does not want to support the economy that is entering the recession. So, instead of getting government measures to help the economy stop negative trends, I'd say crashes in investment, stop negative phenomena, we don't have those measures. We have a proposal for a law in which the government shows that the concern about budgeting is priority and the economy does not interest us. So in the problems at the door, the government takes care of itself. And it's trying to justify the equality of the taxpayer and the tax press, or I'd say tax policies or I'd say government. Come on, guys. I think that such an explanation is unacceptable in such a serious article for the SDP Club. Well, now the IRS is turning itself in at the end of the month. Well, if the return obligation occurred somewhere in the middle of the month, it's not 15 days already. Are we going to talk about taxes, I'm sorry, interest payments if the taxpayer doesn't pay what the interest is when the tax administration doesn't pay. We're saying it's for the reason the IRS could exercise control. Well, that control can be carried out even after it's returned. Do you know what the sanctions are if someone cheats on the state for taxes? Well, the sanctions are terrible, and they need to be further strengthened because someone dared cheat on the state. Well, you can't control it until the day you get back. And so in, I would say, the context of concern and the struggle for tourism, the harmonisation of our tax policy with European practice, and we are going with this one article that burdens the entire economy. And they only burden because the fear of the Croatian government appears, especially the Ministry of Finance, that it will not be possible to fulfil the budget commitments and we claim there is no problem in liquidity. If there is really no problem in the liquidity of the SDP Club, it suggests we give up the article. Let's give it up. Are we talking about this article that is very important to the businessmen, are they having problems with liquidity too? Is this low production and economic growth that happens if you're looking at the movement of stock shows that it's a good part for supplies, if it's about supplies, then you know she's short of money, that they're also inequitable. Is that what the government needs to be worried about? Is that what the government needs to be burdened with? You should. And that's what attention needs to be paid to, but not in a way that we can put even more pressure on them right now. No. The state will also carry out obligations later on. So in times of crisis, we take care of ourselves. And that's why the SDP Club really takes this change seriously, I'd say even the minister to give it up, it's not clear to us how the social partners gave consent, where there's an economic chamber to react to. Because it is evident that this will have an impact on the liquidity of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. And it will be influenced by this measure. And see how many changes were made to the VAT Act. You know what the changes were about most? When VAT is to be paid and VAT returns are to be made. The most changes we've had in that part. The princes were pressuring to move from 15 days of payment to 30 days. It is an important provision that speaks about the payment and return obligations of VAT. The SDP is inadmissible. Therefore, we think that we can find a better solution with other readings in this section and find a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41031	Thank you very much. I am reporting that at 11.43, it is time to apply for a ten-minute hearing on this agenda point. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41032	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Linic said there is no equality between the tax system and the taxpayer. In fact, there is equality in this Article 2. He says: In this way, in fact, an explanation under this Article 2 will thus be brought into line with the time limit for the return of value added tax with the time limit for paying the value added tax under the applicable law. Thus, it was 15 days to pay taxes, so it was moved 30 days, the same as that equality now shifts the tax refund from 15 days to 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41033	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41034	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who know my humble professional thinking about VAT know that I have always been a supporter of the differentiated rate. Look at the debate when the law was passed this year in 2001, and what I was being imputed to suggest, I quoted the SAA. So I didn't say I stood up for it, but if I could quote myself, I said that the SAA is proposing a zero-foot suspension. However, my colleague Linic and I often have such verbal and here, but he knows my representation of differentiation rates because I think that this is something that Croatia should have and that we introduced instead of a zero rate, maybe everyone today would have a far more rational policy. But I'm saying, this is what I considered necessary to say. But as for the SDP amendment if I'm not mistaken last year, you've proposed an amendment to the law and you've proposed a differentiated rate of 12%. Now you're suggesting 8% so this 10% is somewhere in the middle of your thinking within a year. So I don't think that this 10% rate was sucked out of a small finger, it came from a really wide range of conversations with people who deal with this activity, with analyses of two parent ministries, and based on an analysis of the tax administration that analysed the applications submitted by the people who deal with these services, so based on what the tourist employees were proposing, what the state budget could withstand, so the public finances could therefore have reached a 10% rate. But what I've always been against, and I don't think there's any professional justification for that, and that's the separation of the tax system, that's more differentiated rates. Then we're reopening space for the gray economy, but you can never clearly define what's what. That's why we went into the bill of law to keep half board and full board at 10% rate because if we came into the situation that he puts on the account a special bill for accommodation, especially for breakfast, especially for lunch, they would open up a series of manipulations, increase administration and create a very complicated and bad tax system. That's why we went to it and we even added the agency commission so that the agencies involved in bringing tourists into these accommodation facilities, so they are taxed at the same rate, that a single account is simply established and is visible, clear and transparent from it. So I say from a professional point of view and by talking to colleagues from the European Union who have more differentiated rates, more differentiated rates are something from a professional point of view which is unacceptable and would complicate an additional system and that is what this government can very hard agree with. I know that there were accommodation proposals I know 8% or 6% in catering, which I know 10%. But one real question arises, if we buy from our wine manufacturer a wine butt for 30 kuna and if someone is selling for 180 kuna, then there's VAT, whether it's 10, 15 or 20 totally irrelevant. If the beer "Karlovacka", "Zagrebačka" and other brewers, "Panonska" etc. 3 kuna wholesale sales and something else, if that's on the tables of our guests of 10, 15, 20 kuna, then it's no longer a VAT rate issue but a margin problem. So let's see where the essential problems are in the prices of extra board spending. And what I said in my opening argument, it is illogical that we think that the beauty of our country should come to see it and that is why we should give it a differentiated rate. Anyone who wants to go to Roška waterfall and somewhere wants to see it, and then it is logical to pay 22% of the value added tax such as taxable all such services in the Republic of Croatia. That's why we singled it out of this part. And what's left to hang in the air, what my colleague Markov said, differentiated rates to commercial accommodation in ships. But if I own the boat, if I'm tied up in the marina, so I can't put out my own invoice and charge 10% on it. So that's what's untaxable. It taxes that service that the marina charges for anchoring the ship, but sleeping on that ship, if I sleep in my ship, I don't make an account if I don't make an account, there's no VAT obligation. But accommodation in ships engaged in commercial rentals is illogical for someone to put a boat in the marina, that this boat is not at all sailing and that there are 7 or 8 foreign guests on it, but it's settled by the Maritime Code how and how people who come on board ships have to report them and how companies dealing with boat rentals like they have to have records, how many years can there be unregistered people that the owner can call during the tourist season, so I'll clear that up as well. And at the end of what Mr. Linic said on behalf of the SDP club for 15 to 30 days. I think talking about recession, talking about indifference and not offering for it any argument is very dangerous and it is something that is often heard in Croatia. Now I'm asking you a purely professional question, professionally however you like, I can't actually ask you a question of sorry, one finding. If the payment of revenue for the first six months is more 6,5 than it was last year, if when it looks cumulatively higher by almost 16% than it was in 2003, if inflation last year was 2.1%, if inflation this year was 3%, if economic growth, you were all talking in the first three months, if it was over 3% for these six months, so would the economy that could have been in recession at such a significant rate, I'm only talking about VAT, filling the state budget. These are things when macroeconomic analysis of devices that don't stand together. But also to say 15 and 30 days, not to clarify legal possibilities to the end, is not good because of those who listen to us. Therefore, I, as a taxpayer, can submit my application of value added tax immediately to the first or second of the month following the end of the accounting period and request a refund even though I can apply for that application and submit after 30 days, that is, the last month. So if I ask for a refund, I practically have until 16, 17 months, which is the deadline for tax returns, I have to make a return. And now look, you have a mutually connected society. One company is a taxpayer, and one company is a taxpayer. The interlinked societies know how to communicate, I mean how to collapse documents among them and now, normally, that this return company will apply immediately at the beginning of the month and the state must return it. But that related company that has the obligation to pay taxes will file its accounts for the last month. So 14, 15 days after the state has already had to return to the related society and its payment must be only 30 days after the application has been made. It's one of these theoretical assumptions. Because what's going on? That in two related companies, the Croatian State had to return 42 or 43 days before the obligation to pay that value added tax to this other company was created. So that's the hole that opens. The other thing, I'd like to remind you that how this provision came about. So not denying what you said, the normal thing that this kind of obligation will create certain things, however, is important in the tax system that the various provisions of the defeat system must bring all taxpayers into the same position for reasons not to open gray zones. I've only given you one example that can happen, an extreme example, so the difference between what the state needs to pay back and what someone needs to pay the state for 43 or 44 days, or at worst 45 days, means something extreme why. Because that's the rule of law. However, you remember well when there was an amendment to this provision at the end we were there, then I was in the position of the opposition representative when we discussed I couldn't say for 0 feet, nor did I ever say that the Government's intentions were bad and you know that when we discuss a bunch of things, I never said that you or a fellow Churchman who were the creators of these things proposed out of bad intentions some things, however, after certain application it proved that maybe some things had to be modified just as it would happen with the proposal of our law. So, at the time when the 30-day payment deadline was extended, no one thought about extending the tax payment deadline, I'm telling you extreme examples, you know that, unfortunately, when we change this profit tax law that we changed last year, there was no regulated business in the interlinked societies at all, and that's what we have to admit. So, only by amending this profit tax law have we somewhat regulated the mutual business of related companies, on the one hand I understand yours but I would also like you to try to understand the arguments of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is happening to us in such a context because, look, a related society may be looking for a return of 20 million kuna, and the other one has to pay a million kuna. The state of these 20 million kunas must return 45 days before it would charge this 2 million kuna and that is the real danger. In countries where this normal business is regulated, etc., this may not be such a danger, so the government's intensity is, after amending the Profit Tax Act, where we have in a certain way solved the problem of residents of non-residents, where we have solved the problem of the business of mutually related societies that we try to even this out too. Believe me, my personal intention as Minister of Finance isn't, but I'm saying I can document it and show you the analytical data of the budget filling at 6-5 months when the revenues are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41035	All right, Minister, now lock up and you'll proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41036	So already the revenues from last year are 11% higher than they were last year, it clearly says that it is not recession but that some economic activities have been stepped up. But I'm ready with you, and there's a awareness that we might be discussing these things, so you'll see that it's not just a blow to the company's liquidity, but to try and make these negative conequences that can be far more difficult than what's proposed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41037	Thank you very much. Honored representative Jakša Marasovic Club of HNS PGS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41038	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is such a good atmosphere after yesterday is about to be praised by everyone here, only Ante Markov comes out a little bit, because Cain praised this Law, Linic half-glazed it, and then the man wonders if there is any need to talk about it, because I think neither this new law nor the one who was before the problem of Croatian tourism will solve the problems of Croatian tourism either with this or with that law. There are problems quite different, that law that speaks of 0 rates on organised arrivals of foreign tourists to say so, then ours remembered that they could also be Bosnians at least when they paid organised arrivals because they were cheaper, there had their logic probably a minister's, smart from Dubrovnik, led the agency, knew that Dubrovnik always lived from organised tourism and it had its logic and thank God that it was adopted because in impossible conditions in completely collapsed buildings some in Dubrovnik and some of the completely unprepared ones came anyway some groups of guests most likely and most often by plane transport and it had their logic and I don't see any reason to spit on that Law. That law had its logic then as this one now has logic because things and circumstances change and it would be really silly if I didn't go as an organized tourist, but if I paid 22% more than I don't know, here's Shuker from Bosnia's background that he's now applying to Livno and that he has 22% less than me to pay. That would be a little funny, and this has a logic, this has a logic to equalize that rate, now dear God is all the same she wants to be 8, 10 or 12% and probably also to the budget because it's said that this equalisation rate decreases revenue by 100 million and now that a man reads that finding, he doesn't understand the heat that defends that Law, if I didn't consider what I said earlier, it really doesn't make sense that I pay more expensive than someone from Livna. And it's something that says that we shouldn't have anything against this law, you shouldn't, you should actually accept it. There is another problem again about what Linic was asking as a question, and Shuker defended, why 30 days for payment and 15 for payment, you know that's a big problem. We can talk about that Croatia has no liquidity problems, there are problems and there are big ones, you can read the newspapers, you can know people who deal with business, so you'll see that there are big problems with liquidity, there are big problems with the payment of each other, you know all of these, regardless of what happened to the construction industry in 2003, and all the small builders, small, it's 2, 3, 4 rows they have big problems with the payment and don't dare to issue bills because they have to pay VAT. The young man has no mercy, he has to pay in 30 days, and that's logical, and that's a big problem, and that's why we have a situation to put your bills on six months to a year later. There are various forms of compensation, cessium, ask God what it's called, fraud, yes, because we are such a world that we are always looking for holes in the law and there are problems. I'm not in one... the state would be normal, you know, if you were to honor payment deadlines so it was 15, 30 or 120 days, then it would be okay. But we don't have it, nobody respects it, even Shuker admitted yesterday or these days that he has a budget of these problems, they're not exactly some figures but they're tens of millions. Which for someone to whom it is owed it is not irrelevant, it is important, for whoever needs to get the budget probably doesn't matter, he is in debt or selling bonds in Austria. So that's the problem, and it requires one more scenario from which an initiative would arise, often a man who deals with business asks and why pay the state, when the state doesn't pay me, lets go for months. And that objectively is the problem. Now that I'm here, I don't know what time I'm talking about the problem of tourism. Ante Markov said: "It is easy for Istria to speak. It has individual guests." Dalmatia unfortunately still does not have an approximate number of nights of pre-war, and 40% of the capacity in Dalmatia is still out of function. 40% capacity. There is nowhere in Split to spend the first month. You have to go there to some pensions on the side or to the trig halls there that are called hotels or pensions. There's nowhere to stay tonight. There's only Marin Jurevic if he's some young girl, then he'd take it. But that's a lot of trouble, too. It's a lot of trouble, and I don't think anyone has the will to handle it. Remember, just remember how many objects are out of function, and they belong to the MORH. A huge number of objects from Prevlaka to Savudrija. And the state as well as those of others who are probably majority owned, there's no solution to that. We have no strategy or solution. We're solving a partial case by case. And that's bad. That's bad. This solves the problem of tourism when we have a high category of accommodation, when we have educated staff in hotels, when we have good food and good drink. That's what a real tourist spends. You're the poor one who takes, your poor boss is the one who's got the guests who take the chain packages and go to Roška Falls and throw some more buckets, the plastic bag they throw in there and no use from them. The real guest at Roška Falls is the one who leaves one 100 EUR for lunch or 50 bar in that guesthouse. It is a real guest, and for such guests we must fight, but in order to have such guests we must give these guests full comfort. And that's what I'm afraid we're not capable of, and we're not willing to think about it. Because if we had the will, we wouldn't have those loose objects here 10 years after the Storm off-line. We wouldn't have them. With all the problems we have other species. Because tourism whether we wanted it or not, the big development generator was in socialism. Remember, you older ones can be remembered before that highway when there was no tourism that looked like it, and remember in 1990 or 1989 how people lived and in the end you have this unfortunate highway, in Washington, the World Bank says, "This is said "this project is not to be valorised". Because you can't even figure out how much he's brought all the benefits. Now we have this highway that connects us as Ante Markov knows how to say 510 kilometers from the Hungarian border, so these Hungarians have, you can't count them on the highway, but if we have a real offer along this one, along with this infrastructure that we have and we do what Minister Shucker mentions, and sewer systems that we have clean sea and not shame, our national shame that we have a closed beach in Opatija every year, the central beach then we will make a big step in tourism and of that we have and benefits. Then they won't have to have any special island laws. Then the islands will give the rest of Croatia. But as long as we don't do it, we're gonna have problems, and this is how we're gonna put on each other in small pieces. Because I don't really think it matters, does it matter 30 or 15 days? But it is fundamental to decide that whoever has an agreed payment deadline to be paid to him, he respects it. That's all that matters. So he'll calculate at his own price how will he handle it? And let me say something else. I've already mentioned the Roška waterfall but otherwise our relationship to monumental and natural values. Well, that's about where we don't have a relationship at all. I went to elementary school in Split to what? 1964. It was a long time ago. So Rankovic was still in power. And now watch. They took us to school in Split. To Trogir for a tour of Trogir. They took us to the Salon. They took us to Kaštela, took us to Omis, to Brač. And today they go to school in Split and they don't know where Salona is, and I'm not talking about how tourists will know, you know. Which of the tourists, organized groups come to Salon? No one. And that used to be a city of 70,000 people with, uh, offering, offering a couple of views. It offers at least a view and offers some kind of prospectus that shows what's going on here? So we don't have a relationship without saying how much more there is in Dalmatia that might be offered. We don't actually have a real relationship here either. According to natural values, it's about the same. It's kind of similar because with all our beautiful and beautiful endings, you only get those with the chain packages because if they had anywhere else to go, they wouldn't go there either. Thank you very much. ... The law, I'll see, I'll make a deal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41039	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more debates on behalf of the representatives' clubs. We're moving on to an individual ten-minute debate. First, a colleague named Ingrid Antičević-Marinović was reported. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41040	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing or discussing this Bill proposal, amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, I think it is incorrect to say that this measure introduced by the coalition authority, i.e. the zero rate on organised, organised tourist trips or accommodation to the Republic of Croatia was a measure introduced by the Government that had no power. We can discuss here today after so much time as the effects of such a measure, and no doubt they were great. Here are all the colleagues who come from Dalmatia, who know well that their tourist resorts by 2000 were staring empty. You could simply walk naked in Kalelarg until 2000 in the middle of the summer so you wouldn't meet a domestic tourist or a foreigner. It is therefore doubtless that this measure has received very good results. Now maybe it's time to think about what's next? But going to change by attacking a solution so far in those days is not correct, or causing doubt at all at all, in the correctness and regularity of the Proposer and what measures will this Law take? It is very incorrect to say that this, that previous law has damaged domestic tourists. If so much concern for domestic tourists for our citizens, first of all, we need to make sure that our citizen is paid and that he gets a proper salary. This is not happening today, and then it cannot go home somewhere or within Croatia, let alone abroad. And that's why it's the principle of justice in this sense that equalises domestic and foreign tourists, why not introduce a zero rate for organised domestic travel and for our tourists, that's how it is, but obviously not. Obviously not, and we can argue here that it's really time to do what's next. But I repeat, there is a very incorrect measure that has led foreigners 60 to 70% of the capacity in Dalmatia to be filled in this way still. What concerns and what the tourist workers are warning about is the application of this law on 1 January 2006. So, at this time, all arrangements are already being negotiated in a year's time, and that is something that introduces total legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia. We also today see the application of this law, or by proposing this law, that contracts are not necessarily something to be respected at all. We saw yesterday respecting the law, respecting the rules of law here from the law-making home, which was the first to and respect those laws. Therefore, what he was saying on behalf of the club, Col. Linic, would be correct regardless of the rate that would be really prolonging the application of this law, at least in the fall of next year because it puts the final arrangements at risk. That's one big uncertainty. Yesterday we talked about the uncertainty of our citizens who relied on some relief, some benefits. People cannot simply plan life here in Croatia or those who intend to visit us and let alone return abroad. Today there's one rule, tomorrow another, and that's why our man behaves from today to tomorrow. It's something the message is sent to him by the authorities and it's not good. This may be the pain of all authorities, but it should be interrupted, that is, to the least possible extent possible. And one big question arises why this important and important law, especially for us down in Dalmatia, was not discussed by the Committee on Tourism, the parent body. It is another ignoring of the Parliament or its parliamentary bodies. Why is not a broader discussion of tourist workers, workers who point to this particular problem and for them is the most controversial thing they have already concluded and agreed on for 2006. I think it's entirely wrong to explain this bill that the zeroth rate has also brought here or opened up the possibilities of a gray economy. The state also exists to control the laws. So we can't end good institutes because everything can be misused, every right can be misused. And that is why how much abuse is being made, or how strong the state is to prevent such abuse, is also the assessment of the strength of a state or its institutions. So, surely the time has come to consider introducing a higher rate of course than zero but that rate that would be competitive, which would make Croatia more competitive than perhaps our most important competitors, and that is Italy, that is Spain. Then why don't we introduce one rate that will still be less than Italy has, than Spain does. Therefore, the SDP Club should also consider that in this respect, it would also submit an amendment. What remains more controversial is the application of this law because it gives birth to a more comprehensive legal uncertainty, we all swear here that we care about legal certainty, we care about investment, but here we see that it is not often so. And as regards the extension of the time limit within which the State is obliged to return this tax, it is considered to be the principle of justice between giving citizens to the State and vice versa. Unfortunately, there is a great competition and exactly how the state treats the citizen learns how citizens treat each other and then also the state. Yesterday we are here by passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Gathering almost all citizens who have anything to object or comment on the authorities declared to potential terrorists. So here everyone can walk alive but not one who has something critical to express in the most human and peaceful way. So, yesterday, we declared potential citizens to be terrorists, and today we've heard in reason that citizens are also thieves who can't wait to steal the state because here it is born through this institute, the possibility is open, the great possibility of a gray economy. I think the correct thing is for the state to be correct about its citizens to pay, to fulfil its obligations, but the question is why would a citizen credit the state? Therefore, a 30-day period is unacceptable for our economy, to repay something that was not required to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41041	My colleagues, we have corrections to incorrect allegations. She's the first representative of Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41042	Madam Vice-President, she incorrectly stated that Mrs. Antičević had been staring empty at Zadar Kalelarga until 2000, and then by the coalition government measures, this Kalelarga was filled by the introduction of a zero VAT rate, and that is one, my comment, is a very small group of tourist service users. On the contrary, it is true that Kalelarga from tourists has emptied Serbian aggression and war that has left many tourist, stalking tourist destinations and it is known that the lost broadcasting area in tourism takes at least ten years to recover. We forget that during the aggression, Zadar Airport was destroyed by tourists. Therefore, it is true that tourists are left behind because of aggression and no zero rate can restore all destroyed hotel facilities and economic facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41043	Please don't throw away. Following the correction of the incorrect allegations, a colleague named Madden reported. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41044	It is incorrect that a colleague of the representative said that this debate is the ignoring of the parliamentary body of the Committee on Tourism. In fact, this law was implemented by the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Tourism has had time for that for exactly two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41045	Thank you very much, colleague. The next call came from a fellow representative of the Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41046	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Ingrid Antičević, said that by 2000, you could walk naked on our beaches without being able to meet anyone, everything was empty and empty. That is not true at all, I agree that in 1990, 1998 and 2000 and later were not good tourist years when compared with 2004 when the Croatian Democratic Community returned to power but certainly there were tourists. However, its basic point, or message throughout its speech, is that the world and Europe accept the SDP rather than other parties, not other political options. It is also from attempts at disqualification that we all invest together when it comes to the restoration of the tourist branch at the level of all Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41047	Thank you very much. The next one's a representative of the Brass, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41048	Thank you very much. I'm reluctant to report to these so-called corrections. Supposedly, but colleague Anticevic mostly uses the situation to bring out a whole series of lies and then heroically deletes because he doesn't want to hear the truth. Here, just two examples. As a lawyer, it's a misdemeanor, that it hasn't waited for the home working body to discuss this law. And now, indirectly, on television, I'm telling her that I'm based on article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which you should then know is the home working body of the Committee on Finance and the state budget which has done so neatly. Secondly, and there are a whole series of them, the second one says that in 2000, I was more of her at the time in Zadar and in the calear, I know a better situation, I could walk naked, not exactly, I won't comment, but colleague Ana Lovrin brought out why, but I'll just tell you maybe Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic took it literally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41049	Thanks a lot, buddy. I'm sorry that your colleague isn't in the gym when you're having sex with her. Next up is Representative Jarnjak. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41050	Dear Madam Vice President. Mrs. Anticevic said at one point that last night we declared the citizens of Croatia first half terrorists and then finally terrorists. He's lying! It's not true, it's not true, the Law on Public Assembly was passed. That someone at the beginning of the introduction said that citizens were thieves. It's not true that someone said that! And the third thing is that change, change and addition of this law is causing real uncertainty. Preparing and improving the provisions of the law does not cause legal certainty, legal certainty causes such discussions and, in particular, non-compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41051	Thank you very much, colleague. Not all words were the most difficult. Next up is representative Matušić. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41052	I give up, it's too high!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41053	Thank you very much, very smart decision. We can move on with the debate. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41054	Madam Vice President, the minister is currently missing, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will first say that I have an objection to the urgency of passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I think that, however, given that it is one significant branch of activity that we are changing the value added tax rate, we should still discuss in the ordinary procedure so that we can determine what effects it has on the tourism economy has on its four-year application, which will bring about this change and enlargement actually making it easier to pay VAT or at a reduced VAT rate for tourism. In fact, we would also appreciate this observation that the Law does not enter into the beginning of the following year with this argument which has already been said that the majority of the 2006 contract is concluded and can bring certain negative effects if there is an increase in prices or possibly a burden on the business of a particular tourist company. Namely, what was the reason when we introduced a zero rate for the organized arrivals of foreign tourists. And today we say that tourism is the potentially strongest economic branch in the Republic of Croatia and that it contributes in many ways to overall economic growth indirectly and to increasing the exports of the Republic of Croatia. It was because this branch suffered major war damage, for exiles and refugees were taken care of in our hotels, not for several months but for several years. The fact that the prices paid for their accommodation were still below, not market prices but below the cost price which was found for such purposes and that there are today a great need to restore but also to build new capacities that will provide services at one other level than in previous times. It was because the war lost them, the guests were lost, they were slowly returning, they were still slowly returning because they were not coming back at all because they discovered new destinations. There could be a lot to talk about, but here we now have to limit ourselves to a specific law or one segment that contributes to the development of faster or slower tourism activities. We said back then that these are measures that should have a limited duration. And now that they are expanding, it should be said in which way and in which time they will be able to be realized. In fact, we are now introducing an inter-step, and in the law itself, we are calling that this is also part of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation in the tax domain. I am glad that we have come to Croatia at a zero rate of 22%, and we will have one step of truth now for only one type of service. However, it should be remembered that the government is resisting the introduction between its rates and its arguments as to why this is not good and why Croatia will not have one of its rates. When the SDP Club proposed to introduce between the rates of 20 January 2004, then the government said that the introduction of additional costs would take place and said to settle the costs for carrying out the above-mentioned transactions, which would make it possible to change the tax rates, which the tax administration must carry out, would require considerable resources to increase budget expenditure, and would also result in an increase in taxpayers' expenditure. So she further said that by introducing reduced rates or among rates, the number of rates would increase to three which significantly hampers tax control because there are growing doubts about the determination of the facts that are taxed, which are taxed by one product at a time, which ultimately has an impact on the cost of collecting taxes and also on the achievement of budget revenues from this tax form. A few months ago, we also discussed amendments to the law on value added tax submitted by a group of representatives of our club, and then there was a lot of, full three pages that explained that it was not possible to do this because we would have violated our legislation, we would not have been in line with European legislation and there were a whole series of guidelines that made it impossible. I expected the government to come with a law that really harmonizes our legislation on value added tax with European Union legislation because we are told that if there is a zero rate no return can be used... Taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is further said that the lowest rate, inter-step, cannot be less than 5% and that is only for certain products and services listed in Annex H to the Sixth Guideline. Indeed, then perhaps we should assess why we introduce a 10% rate if the lowest rate is possible, the rate should be 5%. Perhaps we should really analyse in one analytical way what tax rates are in tourism in the countries that compete with us on the arrival of foreign tourists, and then we could determine whether this rate is between 5 and 10%, or whether this is the lowest of 5%? So the government has listed here a whole series of guidelines and conventions relating to value added tax under which our legislation should be harmonised. We're only going to one segment here right now. We'd like to bring it in as an emergency procedure. I think it would be good for the government to consider extending the period of application to 1.1.2007. To accept that this is the first reading and that really in the autumn, along with all the effects that have taken place so far, the effect that this measure will take can be assessed in one normal situation and in the procedure as to what is best for the development of tourism activity. At that time, we would certainly please those to whom this will be applied directly and that they can, in one normal longer procedure, say their opinions and assess what these effects will have on their individual companies and their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41055	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is the representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41056	Madam Vice-President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, directors, the assistants of this bill have come at the right time, and we do not always need time to process and accept something white. The bill that is before us is the equalisation of both foreign and domestic tourists and all those who deal with tourism. Therefore, the introduction of a reduced value added tax rate of 10% on services, accommodation or accommodation services with breakfast, half board or full pension in all types of commercial catering facilities and agency commission services for these services can be said that right now when it is adopted and will take effect on 1 January next year is enough time and for perhaps some contracts concluded to be added to that contract and documents. Such remarks only say that we always want to stall jobs, and we do not want to shorten and become very effective. Therefore, the introduction of a reduced value added tax rate for these services paid abroad by domestic tourists as well as an agency commission for paid services abroad, which are taxed 22% under the applicable law. I repeat again means equating tax rates for domestic and foreign tourists. Why should my domestic tourists be put in a more unfavourable position, and why should domestic and foreign agencies not be fully equal? I point out this because the tradition of 140 years of Hvar tourism says that whenever a guest feels equal whether he is a foreigner, domestic, whether the stranger who comes from some of us less rich country should always be the guest we will accept, whom we will host and thus return. In this proposed way, it will be possible to lower the prices of tourist services precisely for domestic tourists and better fill tourist facilities in the season and beyond the season. It will now be easier for us to come to the sea throughout the year just by finishing the Split-Zagreb highway so that several times a year, especially during the Easter holidays, we can allow excursions at that time and for local tourists on our coast and islands, because we have appreciated from Easter that the tourist season is beginning especially in Split-Dalmatin County is expressed where religious, cultural events are connected, processes that enrich our cultural tourism. Therefore, taxing the organised stay of foreign tourists at a reduced tax rate instead of zero rates and taxing those services at a reduced tax rate for domestic tourists instead of the current tax rate of 22% means equating with regard to the tax status of all users of these services. And agency services. And why not point out on this occasion that the Croatian Law on Value Added Tax is in line with the guidelines of the European Union. It is precisely because some European Union countries have done so long ago. Therefore, the opinion that a zero tax should be abolished, a zero value added tax on goods and services delivered abroad because it does not comply with the legal property of the community. Because, as stated in the current law, value added tax is paid at a zero rate on all types of bread with understanding, all kinds of milk so that everything is listed, even on kefir and chocolate milk and other dairy products. Books of professional, scientific, artistic, cultural educational content, medicines and products that are surgically incorporated into human body, implants. All of this, as well as scientific journals and public screening services, is justified to be a zero rate. After all, we need to raise everything to one higher level and thus show how we can introduce order into all segments of the Croatian economy. I think that this approach and at the time of the adoption of this Law we can confirm that we are still committed to the development of Croatian tourism in all its parts, but not only in the coasts and on the islands but also in that part of Zagorje, but also in that continental part, because now it is easy and pleasant to join the north and south of Croatia. That is why I want to encourage the promoters, I want to encourage further the Croatian government that we need the right proposals of the law to propose, not to watch whether it is time or not, but the assessment is that we can and must coordinate Croatian legislation precisely because we need it. And because we want to be equal with anyone and we want to become partners with the developed world and Europe. That is why I point out the main grace of this law is precisely at the equalisation of domestic and foreign tourists, both the sad and these agencies, by bringing no one into an unequal position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41057	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up is Agent Leko. Here you go, buddy. My colleague Leko gave up. Next up is a colleague of Young Honey's. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41058	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I'm pleased that most of the assembly clubs will support this bill, at least that's how they announced it, everyone seems to me, except for the HSS club. This law would propose the abolition of a zero value added tax rate on the services of organised residence paid by foreign credits. It is thought of accommodation services of half and full board in all commercial catering facilities, services of the agency for those services, then tours and transfers of buses. The proposal for a VAT law would pay at a rate of 10%, thus introducing a reduced VAT rate for these foreign payment services by domestic tourists as well as agency fees for paying services in tourism. Under the current law, the current rate is 22%. This law equalises the tax rate for domestic and foreign tourists and domestic and foreign agencies. The proposal for a law will also mean the harmonisation of the VAT Act with the guidelines of the European Union. This provision would apply from 1 January and I believe that this law is actually proposed on time, as more than enough time has been left for the publishing of prices and the arrangements for organised arrivals of foreign tourists for the next tourist season. In fact, in the very announcement of the law, we could hear possible negative reactions from some representatives or media. We wonder what are possibly negative effects, but we have to ask ourselves what are the positive effects that will give the additional economic value of this law. According to the latest Thompson research, the arrival of foreign tourists on the Croatian market is the highest, so 60% depends on the recommendation of their friends who have already been in Croatia and have transmitted positive information from this resort. In the second place, agency arrivals with about 30% are only slightly dependent on guests who decided to come on vacation through marketing at Croatian fairs or through the Croatian tourist community, i.e. through expensive paid TV promotional or internet materials. This approach to the arrival of foreign guests can be called individual or organized. These changes to the VAT Act when a single rate of 10% is introduced for organised arrival paid by foreign money and payment services abroad, we can freely say that this law favours approximately 60% of foreign guests and almost 100% of domestic guests. This kind of cost savings in more than 65% so foreign and domestic tourists, I believe it does not mean the announced budget deficit of 100 million kuna, as guests will actually spend their savings on other services, whether accommodation, food, drink or other recreational facilities. This again means budget money and VAT receipts. If we're talking about an organized agency summer sale on the Adriatic, for example. in "General Tourist" sales run with 20% better results for foreign guests compared to last year, while on the domestic market sales are better by as much as 55% compared to last year. Among the foreign guests according to the announcements are French, British, German and Scandinavian. In the prescription department, "General tourist" in the media shows actually two problems. Removal of zero rates for organised arrivals from foreign destinations and problem over booking means hotel filling in Dubrovnik area. The problem of the zero rate is explained mainly because of the contract already signed for 2006 as we have heard here from a series of MPs, i.e. the suspended issue of brochures due to the formation of new prices for the next season. "The problem with which we are currently fighting is over booking in the Dubrovnik area. Our guests arrived, and hotels could not receive them because of overblocking even though the accommodation was arranged neatly, paid and announced. The hotels didn't even find any alternative accommodation for our guests, so we were forced to search for it ourselves and find it as a rule in the lower category of accommodation than the paid one. So far, the 'General' has paid compensation to a few foreign partners even though the guilt is exclusively at hotels, but we have no choice because we don't want to lose our jobs." So this quote actually speaks of positive effects and profits regarding the agency and probably has space. If the above booking problem in the Dubrovnik area is taken into account, then obviously prices in Croatian tourism are not a question of number one as a motive for arrival. Motive is the quality of the product, and in the future, domestic and foreign agencies will make better arrangements on the reservation, it is obviously a quota to avoid negative effects of overchargement. That the price is not the exclusive advantage of the hit destination speaks in favour and that already this year some hotelers in Dalmatia have raised prices up to 35% in the high season. In Istria, such a priced approach has been made before last season. When the "General" talks about any problems due to the already agreed arrangements for 2006 and... The brochure is then simply imposed on him by the rule and principle of principled wine wine or get a Geb of Negotiation so that definitely this 10% difference can be translated either from the profit of the "General tourist" or perhaps at the expense of the high enough prices of the hotelers themselves. [[You don't understand.]] Of course you can expect a negative... which is potentially minimally profitable, but it is not enough just to take advantage of the primary advantages and opportunities of Croatian tourism, here I primarily mean natural beauty, the tourist potential of the continental part, the ecological clean natural environment, the geographical position of Croatia that allows rapid availability, etc. etc. [[You don't understand.]] The tourist product is the central instrument of marketing mix. When we talk about the effect on added value, then the promotion prices and channels are only secondary. If the tourist product is not quality and positioned properly, the other instruments of this marketing mix cannot be expressed or they are counterproductive. This would mean that, with a bad tourist product, excessive investment in promotion and maintenance of expensive fairs actually means economic loss or perhaps... The same negative character can also be excessive subsidies to organised tourist tours unless we have a good product with good prices. [[You don't understand.]] This means that Croatia actually invests in foreign agencies and carriers eventually, and the statisticians boast that it has many nights. That's when the hands of those who possibly object to the adoption of this bill rub their hands. Planning, development and expectation, the results of the realization of the tourist product must contain all elements of quality, competitive differentiation and positioning of the Croatian tourist product. For us and all responsible institutions, starting with the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport, Development, the Croatian Tourism Community, the Committee on Tourism, I would say local administrations and self-government, so the cities are actually to make additional efforts but also the knowledge and means to take advantage of all the advantages and opportunities of Croatian tourism but also to solve the great shortages of Croatian tourism. First of all, I think of the image of a less quality summer tourist destination, the image of a country from the Balkan war hotspot, the unfinished perhaps process of privatising certain hotels, low quality of accommodation facilities, an extremely small presence of international brands, a dissatisfaction with the selection of quality facilities, various services, often insufficient hospitality and ultimately lack of professional management. From this I conclude that the introduction of a single differentiated VAT rate of 10% cannot be a reason for Croatia to lose the position of hit destinations on the Croatian market as listed by some agencies or today's parliamentary representatives in this debate. On the contrary, this measure I personally think is of a stimulating and developmental character and therefore I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41059	Thank you very much, colleague. The next is MP Zdenko Antešić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41060	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, a few words about this law, namely, this is the Law that contains three articles, and in fact its greatest value is to demystify one of the saints so far, which is a unique VAT rate and introduces this amongst the rates for tourism and in essence it is a positive law that will certainly give good effects in its purpose. However, since it is a branch of strategic for Croatia's interesting branch, which is tourism, I think it lacks one simulation of the effects it will achieve on the Croatian economy as a whole, which is, we know ourselves that by thinking this casually that the effects on the tourist economy will depend on the structure of guests in individual destinations. So in areas where individual guests or campers are prevailing, the effects of this will be significantly greater, there will be a greater profit, i.e. in destinations where most agency guests prevail, there will actually be less effect, i.e. a significantly less effect than under the current law, where 0 rates of organised tourist arrivals have been stimulated. Looking at our competing countries that also have a differentiated rate somewhere between 4% and 8%, I think that with a 10% rate we're actually giving the highest rate which doesn't sound like the state is committed to tourism as a strategic branch, I think it would be very wise to adopt a proposal for a hotel association that proposes an 8.5% rate that is at the level of our competing countries in the environment. Secondly, it is not good to introduce experiments like this to express myself under quotes, without a complete simulation of the effects that will be caused in individual destinations. First of all, we know that most of the serious hotel houses have already concluded contracts for 2006 and that by actually introducing this differentiated rate, there will be a certain disturbance in their business, so my proposal would be and I also see a proposal for many colleagues to move by 1007 if the application of this Act could then fully create simulated effects of this law and certainly it would have come to a much greater approval of everyone. For example, about, I picked up information for three destinations on Kvarner, it is Rab, Crikvenica and Opatija, which are very important destinations on the Adriatic. For example, on the island of Rab where the Imperial catering company has a significant part of individual guests primarily campers the effects of this are about to remain on the same, so the effects of business can be said to be here somewhere. A completely different situation will be in Opatija, in Opatija Liburnia we expect the effects much less than so far because, as you know, they mostly have these guests organized, as well as Crikvenica in the hotel company Jadran are expected to have less business effects after the application of this Act. One more thing I would point out, there is a question of the future of agencies and agency business, they will certainly come into serious problems and there is also no end-defined possibility of circular travel in the Adriatic, and we know that there is a significant number of such tourist business on the Adriatic. I'd like to refer a little bit to the pausal law that was passed in order to prevent the black market. However, even today, even though we can say that the season is in full swing, or it is already slowly and going to the other part, no measure has been taken to prevent the black market and we have just warned in this Assembly that the adoption of the Law on flat-rate payment of the tourist tax and taxation of tourist accommodation will not reduce the black market, but it needs to be addressed by additional measures. And to this day, there has been a promise that some things will be done about the black market, so far nothing has been done. And I'm saying, and that was precisely why the main light was the motif of the newly passed Paushal Act, so I'm also saying it would be good not to experiment, not to always be a country of experimentation and to set the conditions of business in certain branches of the economy without a simulated ultimate effect, which all together results in one uncertain business of uncertainty in the conduct of the economy especially in tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41061	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, colleague Honeyn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41062	Dear Madam Vice-President, MP Antesic said the introduction of differentiated rates would have less economic impact than the previous 0 VAT rate. It is simply incorrect, given that there are only 30% of the participations of organised arrivals in Croatia through foreign organisations, agencies only 30%, that means that the effect will be 60 over 30 positive values.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41063	Thank you very much. The next debate was announced by Representative Frano Matušić, a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41064	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I want to start by saying that I come from the safest tourist city, so to speak from Dubrovnik, from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and that I support the introduction of this differentiated VAT rate by 10%, to part of services in organised tourism traffic, but I also want to say that I also look back at everything said that no one challenges those positive shifts that were made. We also want to make it clear that there were positive shifts at the time when the zero rate was introduced, these positive shifts were primarily in improving the competitiveness of our hotels and in the fact that this competitiveness and all together improved their liquidity and at that point we can say that there were also positive effects. Unfortunately, we can also say that there were a lot of negative effects. Just to correct these negative effects with today's bill of law, we believe that we will make a significant step in this direction. First of all, I want to say something clearer about home guests, about domestic tourists. I would like to say that from talking to tourist employees, first of all, I can freely say that the guest is a great guest. Then why don't we even our guest in his rights with a foreign guest? Why should a guest pay a higher price for tourist services? There is no reason not to provide the guest with the same price as the tourist service on our Adriatic, indeed no reason and this law regulates it, we put the guest in a position equal to the foreign guest. With this law, we are taking another step. We lower the price of tourist service for our guest. Therefore, the price of the tourist service for the domestic guest in this area in which it applies, therefore the differentiated VAT rate should also be lower for domestic guests. So, these are just two very important effects by introducing this law are being obtained and I'm sure it will be quite recognized. In addition, there were talks here about overbooking in Dubrovnik, a colleague named Madden talked about it. I am sure that the increase in prices for foreign guests will certainly not have a major impact on the disturbances on that market because, as already said here, Croatia is today in the world recognised as one of the most desirable destinations, and I am quite sure that these increases for some of these guests who came from abroad will not give up their intention to come to Croatia and Croatia in general because we really do not respond to all the requests. Unfortunately, it happens and it comes to the fact that we have to export, let's say, guests who come to Dubrovnik specifically because of the overbooking of the hotel, so the hoteliers in Dubrovnik have been in the last few days, especially in June and I believe that in July they had to take these guests to destinations a hundred miles away, of course where they didn't want to. There was this negative phenomenon. I'm sure in future times that won't be the case. I would also like to say that the current zero rate is that companies that provided similar services for domestic and foreign individual guests were in a more tax disadvantage. It has already been pointed out here many times that foreign guests were in a different position because those who came individually paid taxes, those who came organised did not do so. So there was already a difference among foreign guests, but the most significant difference was certainly between domestic guests and foreign guests in this tax disadvantage. Also, what's a fact, we don't need to close our eyes, the fact that it was an attempt by the hotelers, we were able to make sure that individual guests were trying to show up as if they were coming organized to avoid paying taxes. It's a fact and unfortunately such practice existed. This way, we'll do the same. We will also ensure that domestic companies are more competitive and that domestic companies do as they did before the foreign market because they will be in the same position as others. What is also extremely positive is that all kinds of commercial accommodations are equated. Why would we do the difference between accommodations, which is why. We know that the camps suffered the most in this situation, that the most negative effects of introducing zero rates were precisely with such accommodation facilities, but also with others. Therefore, there is no reason for everyone not to be equal in rights and obligations, and I think this is a very good proposal. The fact is that he may be a little late compared to the 2006 tourist season because indeed some hotelers have already signed or are prior to signing the contract for next season. But I believe that regardless of the fact that the effects of next season will not be compromised, we will certainly have an increase in tourism traffic and in the next 2006 I hope. But what's most important is that we put order into this part and I say we lower the prices of domestic tourists, home guests who are quite certainly great guests, if not the best guests, because indeed in the out-of-board consumption of houseguest guests, the home guest is not coming to save, the guest is really coming to spend and to use all the benefits of vacation and let him continue to do so because there's no reason for the guest to travel abroad when we have a beautiful shore like this, we have a wonderful service and there's really no reason to encourage him to go abroad, but we need to encourage him to stay on the Adriatic and use all the services and enjoy the beauty of our Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41065	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Ms. Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41066	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The announcement of the abolition of the zero VAT rate on the organised arrivals of foreign tourists in the Republic of Croatia in the way it is and when it has been done without any further clarifications at least is unserious because the time has come for the most intense conclusion of the contract with tour operators for 2006. In southern Croatia, however, the counties are on their way to a tourist recovery. After the Homeland War, a very difficult and thorny way of development has passed, and they have managed to return relatively quickly to a very demanding international market where they are now taking a significant place. In this respect, the zero VAT rate on the organised arrivals of foreign tourists contributed positively to the fact that, through the organisation of the arrival, it gave the segment a character of export activity and made it competitive. Countys in southern Croatia are the largest part of the destination of foreign tourists who most often come organised and stay at collective accommodation facilities. Therefore, there is no need to be surprised at the concern of tourist workers who were hoping to introduce a differentiated rate for tourism, which would be in the role of retaining the competitiveness of Croatian tourism on the demanding international market, which would be similar to differentiated rates for tourism in our competitive countries. Tourism is a strategic activity for the Republic of Croatia, so tourist workers oppose this relationship and stress that tourism is a very sensitive activity for which some hasty and quick decisions can have far-reaching negative consequences. I join tourist workers who believe that introducing a differential rate is the only correct solution for Croatian tourism. I therefore propose to introduce a differential rate of between 6 and 8% following the removal of a zero VAT rate on organised arrivals of foreign tourists, which would be applied on the same basis as the zero VAT rate. That is, that such tax rate applies to all tourist catering services. The higher tax rate would be at stake for profitability in Croatian tourism, as prices are already such that they can no longer increase. And they must monitor inflation in countries where guests come from and even more prices in competitive countries. I would also suggest that the start of a change in such a proposed differential rate of tourism services tax be applied on 1 January 2007 in order for our tourist employees to have time to adapt. And we will also make amendments to these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41067	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a five-minute hearing, closing clubs. On behalf of the IDS of the Walter Poropat Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41068	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. These amendments and additions to the value added tax law relating to changes to the tax provisions per rate from 0 % of VAT to 10%, for the services of organising residences paid by remittances from abroad, therefore, accommodation and accommodation with breakfast, half or full pension in all types of commercial catering facilities. Agency commission services for the services listed above, tours, transfers to buses and vessels in such a way as to apply zero rates by the end of 2005 and then to pay 10% of VAT for accommodation and pension services in all types of commercial and catering facilities and agency commission services for those services, we consider the IDS Club to be correct. In 97 years, IDS proposed differentiated VAT rates and for tourism special protection of competitiveness, so that what we had up to today's proposal was that the agency guests who paid their accommodation outside the Republic of Croatia had a VAT rate of 0% and those who paid their accommodation in Croatia paid 22%. And of course that's not correct, and of course it needs to be changed. Of course, the time has come for us to equalise ourselves and finally act European on this tourist plan and be more competitive and especially with our Mediterranean competitors. Istria, which has a large number of guests in the cars, will benefit from this rate of VAT calculations but will benefit most from tourism by those who raise their offer to the level that guests seek and expect. And by doing so, they'll attract clients with higher payload power. Finally, we at the IDS Club believe that this is a positive step towards improving the overall tourist offer and we believe that the VAT rate in this case is one good step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41069	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance. The HSS club, as announced, believes that this topic deserves much more time, much more analysis and simulations of possible consequences that will result from such a defined, differentiated VAT rate. The consequences and ways to reflect these consequences and to certain regions in Croatia. We need to know and understand that absolutely no one is and can not be against a differentiated rate in tourism because it is something natural because other countries are building their experience on it. But Croatia also has its specifics. Istria is a specific instrument that I welcome and it is good that we all look to Istria in terms of the quality of tourism products and services achieved, in terms of relations with the outside world, in terms of marketing, in terms of achieving a higher price than it is in other parts of Croatia. Unfortunately, though, the same situation is not everywhere. It is precisely because of this inequality in the situation that we are proposing to consider, we agree with the SDP Club's proposal, it goes into second reading, that application be postponed for 2007. To analyse the possible consequences by then and to strike a kind of balance of relations between Istria which would absolutely win a lot with this proposal and we have nothing to gain much but we have against it because a possible such measure would reduce the possible organised tributary of tourists in Dalmatia, in southern Croatia and could create certain problems in functioning. In particular, what we are definitely late and with a fully agreed proposal at this point because we are in progress, at the top of the tourist season. In most cases contracts are already defined and prices certainly are. Therefore, the proposal of the HSS Club, which is also in writing, we do not want to polimise, we do not want to make a difference, we do not want to accuse those who will be winners, but we want to stress that it is our responsibility to make a fair system and a fair law. So on the trail of what the Ministry has proposed we have nothing against but let's give ourselves time to take an analytical look at how south of Croatia stands in terms of contractual relations and organised traffic. Gentlemen, that's over 70%. In Istria, it's 10%. These are facts, I'm not saying something that isn't and these are the reasons that we value different instruments of tax policy and the differentiated rate is a good instrument. But let's give ourselves time to leave this, nothing will happen, we'll unload both the hotelers and those who care about what we bring today. And as an orderly democratic and responsible society, let us show our responsibility to give ourselves time to analyse this serious matter and to introduce this differentiated rate, to make it the same for both domestic and foreign ones and to encourage those areas that depend on organised transport, primarily Dalmatia, south of Croatia. Therefore, we are not against it, we are not the ones who are causing debate over the debate, but we think that we can find common interest and the common benefit of all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41071	Thank you very much, correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Cain's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41072	This must be a good law for Istria. But what's good for Istria is good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41073	Thank you very much. More Mr. Tonchi Tadic, on behalf of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41074	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In this brief presentation at the end on behalf of our Club, I just want to meet this High House and Minister and his assistants with the amendments that the HSP Club has submitted to this occasion regarding this Act. Therefore, in Article 1 of this Act, paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows:...»The value added tax is paid at a rate of 9% on all services in all types of commercial, catering and agency commission services for the services listed above.« So we ask that this half-step is actually applied to all activities in tourism, not just accommodation services, because all of our competition in the Mediterranean has an interdepartment not only for accommodation services but also for all services in tourism and catering. Greece, Italy, Spain and Malta have it, and this rate is therefore for all other services identical rates, between VAT rates for accommodation in tourism, and then it is logical that we go that way and even our tourism with its competition in the Mediterranean. Our neighbor Italy has a general rate of 20, a 10% accommodation rate and a 10% restaurant and catering facility rate. I believe that at 9%, we would still be something more competitive than them. Secondly, the second amendment to the provisions of this Act has been implemented since 1 January 2007. This delay in application is necessary in order for our tourism to have time to adjust because all accommodation services in so-called. The organized tourist resort has already been agreed. This is already in advance for next year with an existing VAT rate zero. And it still takes a slightly longer transition period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41075	Thank you very much. Minister Schucker's closing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a very constructive debate, and in principle when it comes to sum up, we are all for such proposals only if everyone's interests were left behind then probably every county would have its three, four differentiated rates that would specifically suit them. What I would like to say has never been said by anyone in this government that by introducing a zero rate, the former government has done something wrong or, such intentions have been best at that moment and therefore, the time has come to do this. BUT I’d like to warn you of something. At this point, certain destinations have a subsidy. So for both air transport and transportation but what we all forgot at this point to talk about Dalmatia and the South two weeks ago and talk after what happened two weeks ago are two different concepts. Today someone from Germany and Austria is in Zadar, Sibenik, Kornati in practically a few hours. Today we talk about what was once the convenience of Istria because it was close to Europe, that Istria was more favourable because of what, today by building highways and letting the highways Zagreb-Split all practically Croatian tourist areas came to the exact same position. And share it one way or another I don't think it's good. What we need to think about is what fellow Matic said that we do not have enough quality accommodation facilities. We have 10 5 star hotels in Dubrovnik today I guarantee you that we will be filled with holes. If we had them on the Korčula 10 five-star hotels, we'd be in a hole full of them. It's a basic problem that we have a lot of real socialist objects that are impossible to convert into objects with 4 or 5 stars. And we have to look into our faces and say that at this point is the biggest problem of Croatian tourism. We don't have enough accommodation capacity, but I'm saying I hope this measure has not been adopted. I would kindly ask you gentlemen representatives and colleagues from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and we from the Ministry of Finance for nine, ten months from the meeting in Cavtat where it was held, where the Days of Croatian Tourism were intensively talking about introducing a differentiated rate. I say the proposals were normal from tourists at a lower rate, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia was a little higher and we have come to realize that at this point in Croatia the most optimal rate is 10% and as regards those who provide services and as regards the budget of public finances, and this is a confirmation of the meeting we had 10 days ago at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development where everyone except the agencies supported this proposal. So both campers and hotel associations, they all supported this proposal. And the only ones who don't mind such a proposal are agencies who think that the trips that I said to certain pearls of the Croatian state's destination should be at zero, no rate. I continue to argue that those who want to see the beauty of Croatia, the treasure that has been preserved, which is practically nowhere in Europe what we have to do and pay for it to be maintained tomorrow. Because if tomorrow we will not invest in Plitvice, in the waterfalls of the Krka River, in Dubrovnik, in Korčula, in Hvar, we have nothing to show for it. But the very 22% will create an opportunity. What I said was to invest in a coastal infrastructure to protect this clean sea of ours because if we don't get rid of wastewater, we won't have anything to show for a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41077	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41078	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote. The minister said that now it's on this road, that it's about, that all of us, that we're all represented the same. That it's the same for everyone. Mr. Minister, come to the island of Korčula and you will see that there are very few people, and those who come to the town of Korčula are those who come from Dubrovnik for one day, and other places are almost empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41079	Thank you. Ante Markov's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41080	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister is right, but I believe that's essentially incorrectly said that we should invest in our national parks. Of course we should invest, but we should invest in the fact that we spend only foreign goods in Croatian tourism. 63% of foreign goods are spent on budgets. We have become a good tourism market for foreign products. And that is the biggest problem of Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41081	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The continuation of the session is at 3pm with agenda item Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41082	Second, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. We have a proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and HSS which reads: "The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax will be carried out second reading." Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Minister Shuker. We have amendments. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41083	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41084	It becomes an integral part of the law. SDP Representatives' Club Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41085	The amendment is not accepted for what I say and for what I repeated this morning in the debate. This is the rate that is optimal at this point, agreed on one side of the economy that works in the tourism industry as well at this point in accordance with the fiscal power of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41086	Dear Representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41087	The SDP club does not want to claim at all that 8% of the rate that is unacceptable is neither optimal nor professionally elaborated because we did not have an opportunity to discuss it in materials. It is only I would say more feeling us in the club that we rated that hotel companies are the ones who need additional investment, that hotel companies should raise stars, that hotel companies must in some way strengthen the offer and quality of Croatian tourism offer. And when compared to competitors other than Italy, which has 10%, we see that Mediterranean competitors have a hotel job rate of 5.5 to 8%. That was why we went to 8%. As a result, no proposal for a second reading has been accepted and we have estimated that by then we could really determine whether to go to 8% since we said there would be no more rates and we know that the issue is now catering offers and offers of the restaurant business sector that has slightly higher rates than the Mediterranean competition, then I would say an estimate of 8%. Since there is no other reading, we propose a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41088	Thank you. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41089	The government does not accept for the simple reason that most of the arrangements have not yet been agreed for the knowledge of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of the Ministry of origin and those agreed have already been practically considering introducing a differentiated rate of value added tax. And we don't think there's any reason to delay the application of this law to January 1st, 2007. I don't think we'd even be able to achieve the effects that we're trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41090	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41091	In the SDP Club, we estimate that the biggest part is the 2006 contracts. We conclude this because, in practice, contracts are concluded at fairs held in the first half of the current year and contracts for the second year are concluded. In the club, we also estimate that most companies may not have any adverse consequences of application. Why? Because in some ways it will have a smaller rate on me, I would say domestic tourists, so it is essentially the account of the Ministry of Finance that goes beyond 100 million kunas that says there will be no bigger differences in companies either, but we are starting to see that individual companies will suffer more damage and that they can resort to an unpopular measure which is changing the contract, increasing prices, that is a negative message. We don't need negative messages in tourism. And that's why we've been suggesting implementation since 2007, so we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41092	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the amendments to the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41093	It's identical to the SDP Club's amendment, so... Consumed. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41094	And it's identical? So, then he's retired. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41095	Amendment 2 is identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41096	Yeah, it's consummated, too. HSP representative club Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41097	The government cannot accept from the same argument or very similar as the SDP and HSS Club's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41098	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41099	Dear Mr. President, among the VAT rates, our competition on the Mediterranean is not only for accommodation services but for all services in tourism and catering. Just some, for example, France has a general rate of 19.6, accommodation 5.5 a restaurants 19.6 or Spain 16 general rates, accommodation 7 and restaurants 7. So if we want to have tourism where a lot of people depend on it because it's their only income. And I'm asking for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41100	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41101	It was already consumed in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41102	And it's already been consummated with previously rejected amendments. We have another one, yes, I am now voting the final bill. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 74 votes for, 1 against and 13 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We have another proposal for the Conclusions, the Club of HSP Representatives, which reads: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose amendments to the Law by the autumn session of the Croatian Parliament and on value added tax equalising all higher education and scientific institutions according to value added tax obligations and 2. release higher education and scientific institutions of value added tax on funds obtained by international scientific cooperation.". I'm asking the Ministers to keep an eye on this proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41104	Well nice, the government can't accept this proposal as a conclusion. But in a direct conversation with Mr Tadic, given that there are certain misunderstandings in these provisions, I promised to give him a written explanation that the problem of equalising higher education and scientific institutions on tax payments was solved. It is also regulated to pay taxes when received from international communities on the basis of international contracts. Therefore, the government cannot accept this conclusion, and thus more so than I have represented Tadic when I explained some things to him, I saw that the provisions of this conclusion would practically not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41105	Thank you. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41106	I'm asking for a vote, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41107	Who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm putting it to the vote. There's no way we're done voting on that. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 336 In establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure that combines first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health. I ask the Minister of Health and Social Care, Neven Ljubicicic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, let me present to you, in a few sentences, the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Namely, if you let me in a few I'll look back at why we were actually forced to come out with what's going on, and I have to admit that I would like to take advantage of this moment, because yesterday by actually listening to the debate I've heard a number of things that testify that one part of you here is parliamentary representatives and is not quite informed about the whole system. So let me start with the data this government practically faced in December 2003. In December, then, in 2003, all the total obligations of the institutions de facto in terms of deficits were 3 billion and 999 million kuna plus commitments from the 2000 loan amounting to a billion and 670 million kuna, which were shown as public debt. During 2004, the government fully paid off the public debt and then consolidated the system for the first time. At the same time, the long facility towards suppliers was 2.5 billion kuna, and there the government took a step forward and re-consolidated the system with new half a billion kunas. What was frantic, however, is that in hospitals our relationship between income and expenditure, so from what was coming from the Croatian Institute and what was being spent, there was a huge disproportion. The loss that the institutions had at the time was 24%, so 24% more expenditure than income. So what system can work like that? And if we hadn't made some shifts in terms of rationalization, today the system wouldn't exist. And that is why emergency 30 measures have been introduced, measures that had to consolidate the system to ensure that our citizens, our patients and all of us still have adequate and good health care. The measures took effect at the very end, so in December of last December 2004, the ratio between expenditure and income was 3.6%. That means we managed to consolidate the system, but what's important is that it wasn't on the stick of any service. However, the number of services when we look globally at our hospitals increased by slightly more than 2%, but we weren't satisfied with it. Why weren't we satisfied? Because such a loss did not allow us to introduce new methods, introduce new medicines, step up towards a Croatian citizen, because he may not have the right to the maximum, but has the right to an optimum of treatment that every citizen in the European Union has. And that's why we started further rationalization, as I like to say, which is that every kuna has its own way. By further rationalization we allowed the introduction of new methods, new procedures, and that the operations of all institutions were practically within 1.5% on 1 June 2005 and that is what the fact is right now. So in the segment the health institution system functions immaculately. But where's the main problem? The main problem we have failed to consolidate is primary health care, or better said use of prescription medicines and we know the cause. The cause is easy to figure out. The cause is an existing health insurance system that was adopted in 2003, a system where supplementary insurance is incorporated into basic insurance, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing in the world. It doesn't exist anywhere. Slovenians tried to experiment with it and gave it up very quickly. Thus, such a situation absolutely led to a 2 billion kuna increase in the quantity of drug money. None of the most developed countries in the world can swallow that, and that is where the main problem lies. On the other hand, the problem this government faces is aware of, which is that status, the social status of our citizens is extremely sensitive and we are paying great attention to it. There are numerous speculations, so why are you doing this? I'll tell you why we're working a little bit later. What I would really like to point out here, before I actually go into the very description of the proposal, which is that what we are proposing is definitely in agreement with the constitutional provision of the Republic of Croatia. So by defining as a social state. Because the measures actually proposed in these amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, and in order to improve the system of financing health care, do not interfere with established rights of insured persons or with the censorship of the basic insurance system or the supplementary insurance system. And by the way, considering right now whether or not to include anything else inside we gave up. Why? It is precisely to create financial preconditions for what should be followed, which I think we all need to participate in, and this is a system of reorganisation and reform not only of health insurance but of the health system at all. What we are proposing specifically in this proposal, which is the introduction of administrative fees. You've all learned more or less, the media has appeared on several occasions. It is the introduction of administrative fees of 5, 10 kuna, however, up to a monthly amount of 30 kuna. Such an administrative fee is not a unique solution, almost all transition countries in Europe, but also some much more developed countries have the same principle, but much more possibly rigorous. Just because of that social awareness, we decided to limit it to 30 kuna. And what's very important to point out right now is that we didn't do that assessment on 30 kunas by administrative means, but we took practically social censorship, so we went to calculate. The lowest social price you can achieve according to different rights is 650 kuna. The Bureau of Statistics issues the so-called "Statistics" every year. The quantity of minimum detachment, they call it so for survival, that means for financial sustainability within income. He could be up to 5%. 30 kuna is exactly 5, slightly less than 5%, but 5% compared to that 650 kuna, and that's why we decided on that censorship. On the other hand, what we are definitely convinced is that this should not constitute a greater financial burden for all insured persons. Why? Because again based on statistical indicators, where practically the degree of indifference defined by the income censorship below 1956 kuna, for 2004, 16.7% of the population in Croatia falls. So that's where we calculated and calculated that this system could be sustainable. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to, of course, highlight the fact that we have excluded all persons up to 18 years of life from paying the administrative fee, so children, why exactly 18, because we are signatories to conventions that guarantee that we consider all children to be those persons up to 18 years old. We've ruled out 80% and more of the disabled people with disabilities, including, of course, that part of the Homeland War Disabilities. What is very important is that we excluded all preventive checks from the payment of the administrative fee. Why have we ruled out preventive checks and for the simple reason that we want to strengthen them? To date, there is no preventive system in Croatia and it goes to all of us, to you or to me. Such a system can be established because there is a system that we have to invest everything on. And these are preventive examinations in dentistry, in gynecology in all primary health care including general family medicine offices, we don't need to discuss pediatrics because we've freed it up to 18 years of life. What that administrative fee practically means is, in some ways, consolidation, stabilising the system until we cross what is undoubtedly waiting for us, which is inescapable, which is what I was talking about is the reorganisation and restructuring of the health system. Two more points, we propose within the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, which is the payment of post-mortem services. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no such decisions in any of the health insurance laws anywhere in the world. If there must be, there must be. Where they belong, then the Social Services Act. You know we're preparing a new Social Care Act that I hope will be here somewhere between you at the end of the year prepared, and we're just going to include one segment of it in that bill and not in the Health Insurance Act. And the third point we're proposing, which I hope you'll support, which is a restriction on the payment of travel expenses, why. So far, all travel expenses have been paid for all persons who are practically more than 30 km away. Services were paid from individual centres for other centres but the same service, in other words. We are the same search that a qualified specialist paid for in one place and then in another place and the basic question is why. We need to distinguish that from the consular examination, from the second opinion, because the second opinion has its turn. We have our centers that work and function well and that opinion can always be obtained in each of our centers, which means two or three opinions. Looking at the diameter of the county and calculating with the number of visits, this means a large recording of the things we actually did from February to the end of May the month showed us that the optimal distance our patients achieve is about 100 and a few kilometers away and that's why we have calculated it into the law with a 100-mile decree. And of course we said it could only be for that service that you can't get in that place. I think it is actually on the trail of solutions that are practically in the same laws of almost all European countries that are in place right now. The point is that everything is a stabilisation, a consolidation of an additional system that will allow the stability of the system, so in some way, it's still giving us extra time, so we're going to go into subcessional root reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41110	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Honored President Marko Turic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41111	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 35th session of the Committee held on 13 July 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the law as a parent working body in accordance with the powers of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The applicant's representative in the opening statement pointed out the need to implement stabilisation measures in the health insurance system. The introduction of supplementary health insurance is a significant increase in the consumption of insured persons in all health care areas, increased consumption has resulted in a dramatic increase in the obligations of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Following the opening statement by the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee's members highlighted the positive effects of rationalising hospital operations and, as a consequence, significantly reduced the operating deficit of all health institutions. However, rationalisation in primary and specialised consular health care has not produced results particularly in the rationalisation of expenditure on medicines, and the debt of the drug administration has continued to grow. Additional insurance in the framework of the Institute has affected expenditure growth in relation to revenues, particularly in the supply system of medicinal products, and some changes and improvements in this system are necessary, the opinion of most Committee members is necessary. Most members support the adoption of this Act especially because the proposed measures do not affect the already established rights of the insured persons in basic health insurance. Young people up to 18 years of age and persons with disabilities with at least 80% impairment, as well as dialysis patients, so socially sensitive groups insist on Croatia's definition as a social state. As health care measures are being implemented, the preventive health protection of the provisions of this Proposal for a law which determines the exemption from the payment of administrative fees for preventive checks should be increasingly attached to the particular importance of prevention. Most Committee members feel that an unpopular measure to introduce administrative fees is still necessary. In order to financially strengthen the system and bridge time to full and systematic reforms of the health system. Some members of the Committee were of the opinion that the proposed administrative measures would compromise the standard of a significant number of people, especially pensioners. This raises the question of how to determine the monthly limit of 30 kuna per patient, i.e. who will keep such records. There is also a question about the suspension of travel expenses below 100 km which will negatively affect patients with poorer property and who should go to less distant places more often. It also stressed the view that the overall health reform should be given priority and this law, which is only an intervention measure, neglects the necessary reform. At the end of the debate, the Committee president warned that some additional funds in the system were expected of the proposed administrative measures. However, more important will be the effects of saving financial resources as a consequence of more responsible behaviour towards going to family medicine offices, taking recipes that are not realised etc. After the debate, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, with three votes, for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41112	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41113	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At first, I can't help but notice one feature that when we listen to Croatian Government ministers every day and regularly hear. It always starts in 2003, so it seems to me that in 2003 it was some historic year, and it seems to me that everything in Croatia when we talk about problems in particular began in 2003. Since it's been a year and a half since 2003, the minimum we expect is some kind of shift and change. These shifts and changes were expected to be offered for discussion by this law. Unfortunately, they didn't. However, before I speak on behalf of the SDP Club, something about this would like to ask the minister so publicly that during this debate to answer one more question and this is not my question, but rather the issue of the Health Association Co-ordination that addressed the minister in their letter, I have here a copy of this letter which was sent with a request to talk about it publicly. In this letter, it also says in the accompanying text that this law is in this way by emergency procedure and within 24 hours for them, because they were informed that they would have a meeting soon, they discussed possible amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act but in a completely different context and not only in the context of what happened so quickly in front of us. It seems almost unnecessary to repeat that such laws, which come to the Assembly during the night about which we are calling for debate and that we have not yet seen the laws, have hardly been able to be a qualitative step towards solving problems that are very real and very serious and not at all simple. Such urgent procedures, respected colleagues and colleagues, we know very well from experience, can hardly result in positive results. We are really considering everything that has been said in public in the last few months, so I would even say what has been announced in the last year and a half, expecting some kind of reform process. And so first of all, we ask what happened to the announced reforms, which is not with a meeting in Dubrovnik that didn't happen, but with everything that happened in different ways but was officially announced to be discussed and it seems to me that these topics that were opened through the media were those that if they were managed to solve them then and in some way guaranteed that we would eliminate the causes of the problems that we are talking about. This way we won't do anything. We're still hearing that we need to do this, and this, and this and this and we're always listening to the lists, but there's no action. Time's running out. I hope that the Government of Ivo Sanader with him at the helm first because I hold him most responsible knows what a factor of time means, knows how many problems when they're not being solved and how many countries that have problems with their economic development, budget deficits, trading balance deficits how difficult it will be to deal with the accumulation of debts and the growth of lack of funds in health. In all that, I recognize a great hypocrisy. It is said that we should tell the citizens that they must finally understand that they must start co-finance their health care because, as so far, they have been paid by the state. So does anyone forget that 14.5 billion out of the total sixteen billion spent annually on health care is accumulated from contributions made from our gross salaries and from the contributions paid by employers to the health care economy? These are our money, these are Croatian citizens' coins, not Croatian states. What is a big problem, which the state cannot manage with these money, which the state with the money it takes does not give citizens as much as it could if it had rationally organised it. And now that the imbalance has arisen, when we spend more in healthcare than we collect from these same citizens, we say that we need to stabilise, that we need to ensure fiscal stability and that this is a prerequisite for health reforming. And how we're going to achieve that fiscal stability. We're not going to catch those measures that will reorganize the health system, we're not going to reach for those measures that will bury the holes through which the money leaks and leave without even knowing where we're going to lay down by law, we're going to make another hack. Gentlemen, what is offered, which is polite and finely called administrative tax, is a harbinger to the sick. And we in the SDP understand that health care lacks money, it's an irrefutable fact. The Minister of Health warns of this but the government does nothing to eliminate the causes of this situation. Let's take the money first and then we'll get some more time, we won't reach out to those measures that are unpopular because obviously the Croatian government doesn't have any political courage today, let alone the responsibilities for this state of health that we really try to transfer to one ministry and one man. Gentlemen, this problem is too big to be carried by only one ministry and more than too big to be carried by heavily burdened citizens, in this case not even solidarity all insurance companies as it has been tried through basic, supplementary, additional health insurance systems so far. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This administrative fee will be paid only by those who are sick and those who are sick will fill the lack of money in the health budget. If we are already introducing an administrative fee that is translated into a understood language called tax or even simpler, some form of tax is why, for example, it is a tax. did not increase taxes or excise duties on tobacco products and reprocessings, so the accumulated amount of 300 or 500 million as much as could have been rerouted to health care? That would make sense, then. And this, this is a tax on disease. This is a tax paid by anyone who wants to enter the doctor at all. And you know what's the explanation in this law for introducing such a tax? Well, that's what other countries have. You know, in the SDP, we are interested in what other countries have but we do not think that this is the only argument and that it is sufficient argument for Croatia to approach that move and that argument. These other countries that have an administrative tax do not allocate 9% of their GDP for healthcare without still having such big problems as Croatia has. They have problems, there are rich Ireland, there are poor Estonia or even poorer Slovakia. But they don't single out 9% of their gross social product and we do nothing at the same time to increase that gross social product, wait and tap in place. But we also dare do nothing to reduce this lack of money that accumulates and grows in health care every day. We heard now just before the health care facilities function immaculately. I don't like to hear it because we all know it's not true. Neither health care institutions function immaculately nor are they the sole culprit and even less likely their directors for the state we have. Mistakes and problems are in the system. The system just generates them. It also mentions additional insurance as a generator of problems. If someone were to seriously address the analysis of the increase in drug consumption due to the introduction of additional insurance covering medicinal product participation compared to the public statement by the Minister of Health, they would see that this is also an irresponsible statement because it has never happened, a far greater drug consumption generator, and that 14 days after that statement, there has been a significant increase in drug consumption or the creation of supplies of medicines than it has been by introducing additional health insurance which, without a doubt, does not generate consumption, but is neither the only nor the biggest problem of uncontrolled consumption, or I would say unorganised and not directed spending in health. There is also a redesigned provision on the compensation of transport costs. Today, the minister warned very well that this measure should help raise the quality of services in smaller centres, or detimulate treatment to large centres, and detain patients to address their needs in the nearest health institutions. That's true, but it's not true that this measure will contribute. Because patients will remain treated in their centers only when they are sure that the quality of health care in these centres is satisfactory that it will not endanger their health and their life. And this measure by which they will no longer be compensated for the costs of transport if the distance between their home and the facility in which they are treated is no more than 100 km will not detimise their departures and their search for the best and the most quality and safest health care. At the same time, the health administration or beyond, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does nothing to introduce those measures that will truly ensure the quality of treatment. And it seems to me to be constantly one closed circle in which those measures that should be second or third in line of priority are pursued and they are constantly skipping. And first of all, it's because there's no courage. There's no courage to face problems, there's no responsibility to face problems, and then it seems to be what's easiest. Problems are being transferred to those most indisposed, to citizens, to patients, and I say in this case to patients. And I'm going to repeat again, it could even be a consensus and make sure that extra funds are raised but gentlemen not in this way, not through a hack on patients, not through an administrative fee, because citizens need to know that after the introduction of these 10 or 5 kunas that will pay as a fee that will continue to pay the difference to the full price of health care services, that they will continue to pay additional health insurance that will continue to pay additional health insurance and instead of starting to redesign and repair the health insurance system, a new tax is being introduced, a new harak is being introduced on patients. In other words, the government of Ivo Sanader takes extra taxes from patients, doesn't know how to implement it. It's still completely unknown, it's a special story, about which we'll probably all have a lot of fun in Croatia, it'll be fun to watch how to monitor to spend only 30 kuna. According to us, it comes out of the SDP to reorganise the health care system to eliminate those long-term systemic errors and also to develop a health insurance system, to repair what we have, to remove the bad side of that system in favour of what is good. Finally, the SDP cannot support a bill like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41114	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41115	Thank you very much. The Honorable Madam Representative has given a number of incorrect allegations, I'll say only two. First, it is not true that Croatia singles out 9% of gross national income for health care because when you look at the methodology by which other countries show it is 7%. In other words, the social community is particularly showing up, and we're including the social community. Diseases are especially present, and we include them with health care as well. So instead of 9%, the exact quote is 7% of gross national income, and that's why we're at the top of European countries, but we don't get too scared. And another thing. The government hasn't done anything in a year and a half. In a year and a half we returned 2.5 billion kunas of HZZO debt, we reduced as well as the minister cited the deficit of hospitals from 24% at monthly level to 1.5% at monthly level, twice we lowerd the price of medicines to keep the system as we found more than 30 services in taking over the mandate by drug suppliers, so the system was before collapse and still doesn't allow me to count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41116	Thank you. Second correction by Honorary Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41117	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would say, counterpart Antunovic said that the government and the ministry have no courage to deal with problems. Well, they have the courage and now this bill of law is exactly one of those acts of courage to introduce one measure that will certainly cause such reactions as you said was unpopular, that the hack, but the reasons why there is enough. And secondly, when you said supplemental insurance didn't increase drug use, and that it wasn't the main culprit. I'd like to tell you by the numbers, in 2002, when additional insurance medications were introduced for... That year they spent 65 million directly, I'm not talking about indirect what was going on on a mandatory burden, and 2004. 307 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 5 times the consumption rose directly from the supplemental insurance register and the number of recipes increased by 3 million. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41118	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41119	Dear Mr. President, Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. Yeah. Here is another imposition, as Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic would say to Croatian citizens. For example, now we hear that 50% or 50% of the pension will come back, and then what comes back to them then we take it back through health insurance. Either through a property tax or through inflation or through a fourth. But the same problem is respected gentlemen, gentlemen, and that 226 million kuna intended for health investments has been rerouted during yesterday's adoption of the rebalancing budget for some other purpose. And instead of giving the health care a little breath, we're going to introduce additional participations more precisely how nice it is to say administrative fees of 5 kunas and all the way up to 30 kunas a month. It is interesting that taxes do not pay children up to 18 years of age which is clearly fine, but therefore these fees will pay to the greatest extent possible those million and 50,000 pensioners which clearly is wrong. I just want to quote here on page 2 that basic health insurance has established the scope of health services paid by the Institute as a whole. The additional health insurance included 725 thousand persons of which 50% were persons employed and 49.69% were retired. There would probably be all pensioners if they could single out those 60 or 80 kuna in the initial year of application of the applicable Health Insurance Act in 2002 total liabilities of the Institute amounted to 5 billion 770 million kuna. Out of that short-term commitment, 3 billion kuna and two billion kunas in the long term. Out of the short-term commitments of 3 billion kuna, the kuna has reached its commitments of 230 million kuna and the liabilities of two billion kunas have failed. That year was a turning point for the increase and consumption of insured persons in all health care activities, by introducing supplementary health insurance. In particular, this was reflected in a dramatic increase in the obligations of the Institute that have grown to a record 5.7 billion kuna. In order to improve liquidity in business in 2003, the Institute was in charge of 410 million kuna. Furthermore, during 2003, 336 million kunas were spent from the budget more than the planned funds. At the end of 2003, total liabilities of the Institute amounting to 4 billion kuna plus the commitment of the 2000 loan amounting to a billion kuna 668 million were expressed as public debt paid by the Ministry of Finance during 2004. The loan of 820 million kuna in 2004 was also issued from the office's business books and presented as a public debt. Now it's obvious from this that the problem exists. And it's clear that the problem needs to be dealt with. But now where did those good old times when the health care was free go? Let's get this straight. Someone always had to pay that price for health care. But users of service that price, so to speak, did not pay directly. The truth about this Croatia may still be more social than some other and even richer countries in our environment because it pays as much as 80% of the price of the medicine. In one Hungarian state, it pays 65% of the price of the product. In Slovenia, 60%. In Czech Republic, 43%. In Poland, 37%. But let us admit that this measure will be a blow to the social standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Okay, now we heard from the minister a little while ago. In Croatia, one million people would be freed from that participation, but it is a gentlemen strike first of all on a million and 50,000 pensioners. Here on page 6, I quote: "The financial effects which are intended to be achieved by the implementation of this Act have to be below 1st on the basis of the administrative fees charged are expected to be additional funds of cca 376 million kuna. Under the second redefining of the costs of transport, 100 million kuna would be saved. Under 3. From the title of funeral expenses, 33.6 million kuna would be saved." That's a little bit morbid to save now and on the dead or by all these grounds, savings from 509 million kuna should be achieved. Compared to the total planned funding for basic health insurance rights for 2005, €14.7 billion is now what I would like to say about the 3.4% savings. So this is what we're making, I don't know, extra funds or savings, whatever we're going to call it, out of 509 million kuna compared to the 14.7 million kunas we can get through this mandatory insurance and all of this stuff. It is certain that these 509 million kunas are not small. The state fights for every kuna. A clear burden shifts to the ones it has, the ones it has the most. It's usually always the poor. But I'm also aware that the price of everything is always someone's got to pay. It can mean paying the user's service what the patient will say in this case, it can be a taxpayer means everyone living in these areas. This could be charged from a state loan or I don't know. He's selling state property. There's something wrong with the fifth. However, for such a restriction at the IDS Club, we believe that time has not yet matured. I would even be more inclined to suggest, I don't know, an increase in contributions by 0.2% or 0.3% but now the burden to transfer to the orphanage even though what we are discussing today is actually a message to the public that the time of free health in the Republic of Croatia has passed. One word to repeat, there's no free health care. Everything's worth paying for. It was always supposed to be paid. I understand that. Whatever Mr. Leco thinks, but on the other hand, it means through the contributions the citizens are out 14.7 billion kuna of 16 commas something we need, but the fact is that we're spending more than we have right now. If the service user will not pay for it then it will have to be transferred to the State budget, which will say that all taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia will have to pay for it. I think when we talk about it, there are two other problems here. They're general hospitals. I say these general hospitals can't run the county. For example, Pula General Hospital has expenses at an annual level of 240 million kuna, and the county budget of Istria is 200 million kuna. At a general hospital in Pula, there are 1,100 employees. In the County of Istria 100 employees. It's a county that doesn't have a single square metre of either agricultural, construction, forest or so on. tourist land. Countys are not the City of Zagreb. If I am not mistaken this year, the city of Zagreb will achieve budget revenues of about 6 billion kuna. All Croatian counties together, 20 of them will achieve revenue or budgets of 2 billion kuna and I really call you Mr. Minister, take over general hospitals. The second problem that has arisen here has been seen during yesterday, it is these 226 million kunas that were planned at the beginning of the year for investments in health, and are now being moved to some other budget expenditures. For me and yesterday I said it, the budget is, in fact the rebalancing was purely technical. He had no political message, but he had one clear economic message that the country was in crisis. When we see what has increased, these are pensions of civilian 340 million kuna, pensioners of 129 million kuna, housing savings of 70 million kuna, salaries in public administration, military, police, judiciary, etc. 346 million kuna, additional maternity leave 38.7 million kuna, permanent rights of Croatian defenders 35 million kuna, benefits for the unemployed 60 million kuna, a total of a billion and 19 million kuna. It could still be said that we're more social than we were a year ago. It's simply an investment to say so now, in that social system that doesn't spoil and clearly you should have taken it somewhere. But at this point, it may not have been necessary to take those 226 million kunas to invest in hospitals throughout the Republic of Croatia, and if we add and withdraw from public enterprises, then not only do we harm health but we also block this development. To end what do you say here? You should take care of the poor girl. I know that none of us 30 kunas per month are representative under quotes of expenditure or serious, but some people are because these 30 kunas need to be multiplied by 12, so it's 360 kuna, and some people at this time can make up half a month's pension. Finally, what is 30 kuna today, and by which we will achieve at the annual level of 500 million kuna, might be 60 kuna in 2006, and we will, in parallel, continue to pay additional health insurance of 50,000 workers, 50% workers, 50% of pensioners pay it. We'll pay that extra price to the real price of treatment, etc., part of the medicine. So it's actually not 30 kuna, it's much larger. Croatia should certainly be stressed, the social state. Croatia is still a socially sensitive country today. Probably no country in Europe stands out more funds for these purposes than the Republic of Croatia, but I think the problem with health care is that we all need to be as sensitive as possible. It is certain that health care has never been more accessible and cheaper for a citizen than during socialism, I do not advocate socialism, but one social sensitivity certainly is. What matters at this time is that the Republic of Croatia has to run an economical one to tell the revolution, and when we have that information in mind, then we see that we are simply in the gable. Industrial production in 2004 is only 78% since the 1990s. The number of employees in the industry in 2004 is only 39% compared to 90%. From 90th to 2004, we accumulated an external trade deficit of 52 billion dollars. With this year, it's going to be over $60 billion, unemployment rate, good and war, etc. The destroyed economy with 8.9% today is 19%. The foreign debt in 94 was $3 billion, the Paris and London Club today is $33 billion and the public debt was $19 billion. 94. Today it is 110 billion, etc. Mrs. Anticevic spoke of some unpopular measures the ministry does not want to take. I just want to believe that it's not gonna happen that I don't know, like general hospitals or that they're gonna fire and reduce the number of employees. If I'm not mistaken in health care, he's been working under allegations of an army of nearly 70,000 people. It's for a country that has 4.3 million inhabitants a huge number, but that gives one social security to all of us individually. I finally agree to what Mrs. Zeljka Antunović was talking about, let's maybe introduce that extra profit to tobacco, maybe telecommunications, maybe that extra profit of banks that extract that profit from the Republic of Croatia, point it towards health care, let's relieve the citizens. Minister, if you're going that way, we'll back you up, and I believe now, too, that the Parliament will somehow step behind such measures if someone suggests the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41120	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41121	Well, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Caine, who has paraphrased one sentence from counterpart Antunovic, that Croatian citizens are getting one more inkling by this law. I remind my colleague and colleague that this is about one real cost that cannot be paid differently. So it's not about the intrusion. The basic feature of this is that this activity has been carried out by force, that it means taking the means by force, that these funds are so taken away to support the sultans and its duodenals. But I don't see any sultans or doubles here unless they're Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41122	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a well-informed representative, the esteemed representative has indeed incorrectly set two things straight. First, that health care was either once or now free. That's not true. It's just a matter of solidarity in health care and who paid for it. Second quote. My colleague Cain and everyone else are in a certain way opposed to additional insurance. By definition, the problem of additional insurance is the problem of insurance companies, because they ensure a harmful event rather than HZZO, the question is only the prices the insurance company must pay. It is absurd for HZZ to take care of private insurance companies or those who engage in the insurance game. It is not simply acceptable by the Constitution and by the definition of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41124	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41125	Thank you. I would correct the inaccuracies of fellow Caine who said that in health care works a huge army of 70,000 employees and that it's too much. That's not too much. According to all indicators, Croatia is below the average employment in the health care system in Europe. I would remind Croatia below 1.5% of the population working in the health care system, the average Europe is between 2 and 2.5 in one Finland 7% of the population for the health care system. Here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41126	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the HNS Club the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41127	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Getting ready for this debate on this bill proposal, I was not convinced that I would be able to lead it only as a representative and president of the club or as a member of the health ministry expert group who was preparing health insurance reform. In fact, three months ago, I received a kind letter from the minister calling on club representatives to give their representatives to the mandatory and supplementary health insurance teams with a basic purpose and task to prepare the reform. Then we were invited to Dubrovnik where we should start working and listen to all the arguments and data, it was cancelled practically halfway and as a member of that expert group yesterday, the day before yesterday I received the bill's proposal. That's what I'm talking about, so it wouldn't occur to anyone if this bill was called by the work of this expert group, it might be someone else, but the ones we were in, we weren't. And that's why I'm free to say it's about a bill that we can call as soon as possible a law on the reduction of fundamental health insurance rights. It is literally about the fact that, by force of the legislation, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as an insurance provider will change one side, contract and policy or insurance policy. With your help and within 15 years, for the first time, the citizens of this country had the opportunity to gain insight into their rights from basic health insurance through their own guidebook, and I thank all of you who then supported us that this guide came but it was not based on bureaucratic decisions but on the basis of this Regulation, which is published by the Croatian Health Insurance Office every time it was adopted in the National Journal. So this is a sort of basket of basic health insurance rights. Citizens of this country have in their wallets any cards, banks of each other, for parking, for paying in centres, they have and have already had those that no one wants today, these guarantee cards, have also these from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance worth less and less, I'm afraid by the end of the year it won't be worth anything. The majority of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's money is collected by the basis of contributions from the working population, at the rate of 15% and 0.5 for work injuries. I recall that by 2000, the rate was 18% but the number of those who paid these contributions was significantly lower because of a small number of employees but also a large number of economic operators and taxpayers who were exempt from paying health contributions. For example, in 1999, a rate of 18% contribution rate was collected 9.9 billion Croatian Institute revenue and in 2003 with a reduced contribution to 15% of these revenues amount to 14 billion kuna. This means that one index point of contribution was then worth 550 million, and today it is 965 million kuna. However, the problems of financial nature at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance are not the result of the contribution because it is evident that they grow year by year, that the reduction in the percentage of contributions from 2000 is increased each year but the problem begins in the state budget. According to the current Health Insurance Act, which does not change in that provision, it is Article 68. The Republic of Croatia has undertaken to ensure from the state budget the financing of the health rights referred to in Article 68 and relating to the remuneration during the use of maternity leave, the remuneration for the use of leave under the labour law, the remuneration for the use of the child's breast-feeding stop, the measures of increased health care over the population over 65 years of age, medical enlightenment, the treatment of special emergency assistance on the magistrate's roads, the difference in health care costs, out of availability, such as islands and less densely populated areas, persons whose residence is unknown, persons referred to in Article 10, i.e. persons who have been declared incompetent to work or attract, persons under Article 58 of the farmers over 65 years of age, international obligations from health insurance and family of persons referred to in Article 5 of the unemployed defenders, pupils and others. Based on this article, according to our estimates, on the basis of the 2003 and 4 data for these purposes, the Croatian Institute must request from the state budget 2.5 billion kuna, according to the projection for the following year 2 billion 700 a for 2007. 2 billion 900 kuna. Even if the state budget fulfilled those obligations according to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, it should not talk about the financial deficit of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. If in this year for these purposes the state budget, HZZO only provides 200 million, then 2 billion and 300 thousand kuna are missing, and very simple. So instead of going to solve the problem of financial nature where it didn't come from, I suggest we go where it came from and that's meeting these obligations under the 68th Health Insurance Act. As for the concrete amendment and addition of the law, I would like to warn the following, by introducing an administrative fee, not only does it wish to be collected as explained in the reasoning 509 million kuna, and I do not believe that this proposal, because of 500 million kuna, is intended to detimise the use of health care for those who use it most often, and which are the smallest asset situation and is in fact a calculation that the less use of healthcare will result in a reduction in the cost. I remind you again and accept the claim that the health fund in Croatia loses 3 billion kuna annually due to unscathed findings and dumped medicines that end up in the trash. That's a statement by former Minister Hebrang, I believe the current minister will agree, and that is indeed true. Much richer countries than Croatia, the issue of medicines is much more reason than money in health care has been resolved so that both health insurance companies and those who have these medicines after stopping treatment or after changing therapy when the need to switch to other types of therapy and medicines, medicines they took on prescription or bought back into the system. Switzerland and Sweden as very rich countries or poor if you want to spend such a practice for 50 years. Normally not to return drops, syrups, means of external use but all that remains in the original packaging is similar to being returned. So if we lose a billion and a half dollars a year because of the drugs being dumped, and only a third goes back into the system, that's 500 million. You are introducing an administrative fee and you will vote that law without us. Then I suggest you introduce both administrative stamps and anyone who returns the medicine, doctor or pharmacist to change the treatment due to interruptions because there were side effects, because the treatment had ended before, because the package is in a larger amount than that patient's. Give him an administrative stamp with which he can pay this fee next time. Let us encourage citizens to collect this wealth, and every day more expensive medicines are not thrown into the trash and it does not produce an ecological problem because the destruction of old medicines must also be paid by the state. Now we don't even have a burner where we can burn it. The people to whom this provision in Article 19 or Article 1 of your law applies will accept this because they will save themselves but also save both the state and the health system. They're regular in hospitals and pharmacyes and they don't mind taking that medicine box back. Let them be stimulated to do so and thus tie up the money savings reserve without anyone losing because that drug is no longer needed and he's going to stamp it. And you have to settle the payment of that fee. Paid or I don't know what you're gonna do. Make stamps, return the medicine, get a stamp, when I need to pay for those five or ten kunas, especially in cytostatics and chemotherapy medicines where one dose for three phases of therapy, one phase of treatment of three donations costs 12 to 24 thousand kuna. So let's just return one ampoule of it. That's four, five thousand kunas worth. He got a stamp or two in return. He's proud as a citizen who saved something, too, satisfied he won't have to pay. That's how the Swiss got into the drug return culture. That's how they save their francs. In implementing regulations, you can regulate that. To execute very easily. And second, Article 2 speaks of the right to travel expenses more than 100km, and the minister said that so far it has been paid for everyone who went and travelled out of town. At first, that's not true. It was paid only to those who were referred to an institution outside the residence and who, by their choice, used the service of an institution that was not closest to it. The Croatian Health Insurance Office had no obligation to pay travel expenses, not according to current regulations. However, if you combine this Article 2 of the Law with Article 39. The rules on the rights, conditions and method of exercising the right to basic health insurance will then give you the next story, Mr. Minister. According to that article, each insurance undertaking has the right to receive a service in an institution within 30 days. If he does not receive a service within 30 days and the Director on the back of the manual has to write why not and schedule a new deadline within 30 days. If within 60 days the institution does not provide service to the head of the HZZO area office to me as an insurance provider it must find another institution in Croatia contractually and solve this case for me. And then let's tell the patient from Dugbab the head of the district office solved in Zagreb because he couldn't get where he belongs but the patient will have to pay his travel expenses now because he has to get out on the highway. So maybe that's why we get out on the highway. Because he didn't get a favor in his institution, after 60 days of paying travel expenses. Then kindly please, and I will not write amendments, that this provision in Article 2 does not apply under these terms of the Regulation because the patient did not choose a service, he did not go anywhere else by his own free will and reported to his institution and, by decision of the Croatian Health Insurance Office, travels somewhere else to get the service. These are two suggestions and suggestions that you can fix, general impression, artistic impression. We must not vote for this law, we must not vote at all. We won't, be sure because it's simply a matter of not reforming health insurance, but an intervention measure of trying to reach half a billion on the burden of citizens. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41128	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41129	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar had a very nice discussion, but I would have corrected two allegations briefly. He said these reduce mandatory insurance rights. That's not true. That would be true if we said we weren't going to pay for magnetic resonance, CT, etc., then that would be a reduction of rights. This is just one tax administrative, so a payment. The second he said HZZO was making contributions. It's not true, HZZ doesn't make any more contributions, he just records them, gets them killed by the Ministry of Finance. You all said well about the budget later, but unfortunately HZZO's money went into the 2002 budget, and that's not our fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41130	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the HSS Club the distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, even the Croatian Peasant Party Club can't really support this law. This law cannot be supported because it reflects the complete ignorance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of real life and the quality of life of our citizens. It may not matter whether you support it or not, but anyone who enters the subject of this law, which is not a great law, is not a long law, but is very important, can not calm souls and without remorse raise their hands to this law. This law has far-reaching consequences. And while we were discussing budget rebalancing, and while the parliamentary majority gave way to the budget rebalancing of the Ministry of Health 226 million kuna, knowing what situation the Ministry of Health was in, we could expect to get a similar proposal, but we could not expect to get such a bill that fully burdened health policy inefficiencies passed on not to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but to the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's not equal to the gentlemen representing you and me who have a salary of not 15-16 thousand kuna but 13 thousand and 660 kuna. It is not equal to paying those 30 kunas and the one who has a pension of several hundred kunas to a thousand kunas to pay 30 kuna. And those 30 kunas aren't everything. The law says there can't be more than 30 kuna. However, I ask you, if you do not give God sick and start from doctor to doctor and very quickly shoot these 30 kunas in two or three interventions, eventually no more than 6 interventions. I want to give you confirmation that you've cracked your bonus and that you're no longer required to pay. You'll pay, we'll pay because our health is at stake, and you won't pay your colleague Tomljanović because you'll come to a doctor like that and you won't pay anything. So, every sick person, every one of them, that's the fellow Jarnjak that Tomljanovic asked for, you don't see 'cause you're turning your back, but the way he asked, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41132	I beg you, I beg your silence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41133	Comrade Jarnjak, I know it's not pleasant to listen to the truth about this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41134	Don't comment with the representatives from the bench or the representatives from the bench with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41135	But the truth is true, it is true that this law in practice deprives the right to health care and to receive health services to those who are the poorest. Because the poor one, he can't even pay for the participation in the way I explained it, and he also has no means and he doesn't pay travel expenses not to a remote place, but to places that are maybe 30, 40 km away. Imagine a pensioner who has a pension of up to 1000 kuna, who has to pay 50 kuna a day for the bus and let's say 10 kuna of participation. How many days can he, how many doctors can he address, and that is how the aim and motive of proposing that law we heard on the Committee on Labour and Social Policy will be achieved, and the aim and motive of the bill is said by introducing an administrative structure. We'll reduce the patient's interest and the patient's initiative to go to the doctor. So do our patients, do our sick citizens go to a doctor for a hobby or for what it takes. Worse still, it was pointed out that this Law protects the dignity of doctors. It's up to us as people's advocates to protect the dignity of citizens. And if we are to protect the dignity of citizens, then we cannot accept this Law, this Law is against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This law says it will introduce rationality, as said the minister that each kuna will know its way, and imagine a simultaneous explanation today when we read in the Morning Health Minister Neven Ljubicic as Santa Claus. So he says: For Ljubicic, the donation has already started during the budget rebalancing, he fell during the debate without a struggle and benevolently donated to Minister of Finance Shuker 226 million kuna for investments in health care. And I won't mention those 60 million kunas to a hospital in the state budget. And now a little bit illogical on the one hand, Santa, on the other hand, savings on the burden and the bill of citizens. So, in addition, this Law is completely contrary to that constitutional provision that the Republic of Croatia is a social state and the explanation of Mr. Minister that this Law is exactly in line with the Constitution that it is a social state, it does not comply with the Constitution because here the poorest ones who are entitled by the Constitution to special state care do not restrict them but prevents health care. Besides being socially unfair, he's inexecutive. He is, it is impossible to control him as I explained on the payments of this participation or administrative fees as it now sounds nice. In addition, in the other part of the implementation, in particular in Article 4(2), where it states: "Extremely from paragraph 1 of this Article, the insured person may be authorised to use a more expensive public means of transport due to his medical condition in accordance with the General Act of the Institute.". Who approves? You don't say anything. Based on what criteria, you don't say anywhere. Can we talk about transparency if someone, I don't know who the minister prescribes, is going to be the one to determine that Peri Petrovic can fly it, and for a wonderful miracle, our government's planes are also driving on a safari, maybe even our patients will be carrying it, and on the other hand, someone else will be driving a freight train or the cheapest means of transport. Then Article 7 abolishes the right, ends the right to compensation for funeral expenses, ceases the right, in a normal society, in a society where citizens can live from their work, in a country where pensioners have what they earn during the working life, and those citizens who are in a working relationship receive wages and wages worthy of their work and are worthy of their lives either or normal. But let's take a little newspaper, if we don't have any real contact with the reality of the real life of these people of ours, and we'll see that citizens have a lot of problems when one of their relatives, not to mention a mate, parents die, have no means of burial. So far we have been, the state of Croatia has been solidarity and has participated, it has helped us, however, now that it is no longer helping why it is not helping, not because the Constitution has stopped being a social state, but because we obviously have a practice going one way, the laws are going the other way, so let's be legalists, let's see, harmonize practice and laws, and then at least we won't be hypocritical, so the Croatian Peasant Party's Club can't support this bill, and personally I would like to bring down a single sentence and that's to support the law, so to the devil's soul to sell for 500 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41136	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honorary Representative Andrija Hebrang. In accordance with Article 207(2), Article 207(2) in 16,23, the time for the individual hearing has expired.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41137	Honored Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, honored Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law which, as the minister said, needs to bridge the period of major reform and that is definitely true and without such a law, the financial system will not be able to withstand the burden that lies ahead of it. To try to explain why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports such a proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act, we will say something about the basic characteristics of the Croatian Health System. The Croatian health system is definitely unique and unique and completely different from all other systems in transition countries. It is only by health care that we have not come a step closer to the European Union, not by the structure of our personnel, not by our knowledge and organization, which is why we are ahead of many, but right in the financing sector. How do we differ from all other transition countries, and we need to compare with them? The first difference is that in Croatia the state covers more than 90% of the total cost of health services in Croatia. In all transition countries, it ranges between 75% and 80%. In the area of medicines Mr. Cain has already said but I will briefly repeat the Croatian state covers 85% of the price, the total price of medicines while in transition countries it moves at 43% of the Czech Republic and only 34% of Poland. So we're definitely different again. We differ by being the only country where on 400 dollars average payments per capita each person spends on average $600 per year. Another big difference between Croatia and all others is that in Croatia practically 3 million people are freed from any participations, administrative fees that have not even been paid in health care, 2 million 200 are released directly, and 800,000 are indirectly released through supplementary insurance in the basic insurance system. The third thing we're completely different from everyone else is that extra insurance in basic insurance. As Mr. Leko said just before the supplemental insurance was marketable in all the countries of the world, and the basics of course were social, whether private or anywhere. By establishing additional insurance at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, we did the same thing as if the worm were pushed into the apple and said keep it safe. The result was that the apple was eaten from the inside and that it would collapse. This is the law we're trying to save the apple. The fourth difference between Croatia and all other transition countries is that for 4 years, we have had a financially penetrating system without any control and therefore Mrs. Antunovic repeats what we inherited in 2004 because we still carry this weight on our backs even though we have made it significantly easier. We worked for a year and a half to make it easier, and the weight was next. HZZO, as you can see from this report, was owed 4 billion kuna in January that year from the state audit report. Then the hospitals were two billion, 400 million, 700 million unpaid investments, and then when we summed up those 7 billion 300 million, we were criticised because it was too much. And the state audit said a year after that, you underestimated the debt because another billion 600 million were hidden and unbalanced. So the total debt was not 7 billion 300. It was 8 billion and 500 million kuna, and that's 60% of the year's turnover of money in health care, and it can't stand any system. Well, we're still characteristic of the fact that, with all these difficult conditions, we've done more services than any country in transition. Only last year under such difficult financial conditions did 60 million major health services. And over 80 million less health services. And that's what the Croatian sisters, technicians, doctors did, and that's why I thank them. What we're characteristic of is that we have a lot of 60 million I said, 30 million in primary, 30 million in hospital and consular. Just bigger favors. What makes Croatia even unique is that it has shorter waiting lists than one Ireland, for example. Ireland and Croatia have equal population. We even have something bigger. Croatia has an annual health insurance of EUR 2 billion and Ireland listen carefully to EUR 12 billion. Waiting for coronary dilation in Croatia is shorter than in Ireland. Waiting for diagnostics is shorter than in Ireland. Why? Because our doctors, our sisters and technicians make up for bad economic conditions, spatial and poor equipment conditions. With all this you should add what we've been doing for the past year and a half? The minister talked a lot about it. We didn't wait to build a new system. But he's making himself up. But to take off the eight-and-a-half-billion-long burden to resolve the drug shortage that threatened us because we found 17 lawsuits by suppliers to hospitals seeking account blockades. We had to move towards a significant reorganisation of the financial part of the system. In January, hospitals had 24% higher income expenditure, January 2004 reforming the system in December was 3.6% and today 1.6% of the deficits per month. It took a year and a half to work bloody, and at the same time the number of services did not fall, but it grew as you heard by 2.01%. So this has been done over the years and a half, and there has been a record of the situation in Croatia and neighbouring and all transition countries, and there has been a strategy that will in the next year produce a written form of reform of the entire system so that it can be subjected to a really broad debate not in an urgent procedure but in a normal way, so that all of us can give a critical look at it. What makes Croatian healthcare completely different from all countries in the transition that we are the only ones who do not have an entry guard in the health system. It's the only one. The entry guard or "gate keeping" in English literature is a mechanism that keeps too much entry into the system because not only the patients enter the system. About 50% of the sick and 50% of those who come are not because they are sick but for other reasons, the most social ones. All countries, of course, have introduced participations in the transition to Europe in order to set up "gate holding" or guard entry. And we had a hard time bringing them in if you remember the early 1990s. And that's why we've been flogged from left and right but we've endured these participations in agreement with the World Health Organization, and we've raised to one level that enables the entry guard to function. The gatekeeper broke those seconds when we put the worm in the apple, which means extra insurance in the basic. From that moment on, there is no longer any participation. The result, for example, is that in our hospitals, participation or payment amounts to less than 1% of the total cost, the total price. Well, of course, such a system can't survive because if it could, the guards wouldn't introduce other countries. Other countries that introduced the participations and did not destroy them with such subsidized supplementary insurances that must be absolutely marketable, and in us did not invent these countries and administrative fees. Why did they make them up? Because even those participations weren't enough to guard the entrance. Why? Because the prices of drugs and technology grew at a rate of 10% a year. And it was necessary to strengthen the guard's entry so that it wouldn't happen to us that anyone who has fat in his blood would take anti-fat medication but take it after a good meal of edema. That's the purpose of the gatekeeper, not to say no to the sick one. And to correct that, they introduced administrative fees. What's that? That's what we're introducing today, of course, if most MPs agree. It's a fee that's equal to anything. She doesn't take exception. So there are countries in transition, European countries that haven't even excluded children. Not even a pregnant woman. Of course, Croatia is a social state and will not allow major social earthquakes, so we freed children and pregnant women and everything else the minister has stated. We are introducing these administrative fees last in Europe so that all those who are against them may compare our reasons that I have now presented with the reasons for those who have done so before us. With an administrative fee like this, we'll definitely make a security guard into the system. Why now and why an emergency procedure? Because last year we returned two and a half billion kunas of HZZO debt, we put it in order as you heard the hospital's funding. I mean, in terms of surpluses, deficits. Unfortunately, we couldn't reduce the enormous increase in instructions, the number of instructions that grow at 15% per year, we couldn't bring in order or increase prescriptions for medicines in primary health care, which will surely cross 400 million kuna this year more than last year. Why couldn't we? Because practically 3 million people are excluded from the security guard's entry into the system, and simply without that element, the system can't continue. That's why HZZO took the new 820 million kuna, 820, right, millions of kuna loans. The next year, when he gets it back, it's gonna be 900 million because the bank's taking its hack, it's a hack, not this. There will also be more than 400 million medicines than this year, the manual will be at least 15% more than the new 300 to 400 million. Therefore, the Croatian system is now a billion-and-a-half deficit for next year, and by next year there are still a number of months. By threatening the system? It threatens to re-inherit the failure we inherited in 2004 because consumption is growing much more than the increase in gross national income and the increase in the rate of contribution, and therefore this is the final moment to introduce a security guard who would still be socially sensitive and therefore is limited to this amount of 30 kuna which is certainly huge for anyone who lives on a thousand kuna, but in any case, some victims are always needed for survival, this time the victims are reduced to a minimum, because it really excludes a million people from administrative tax which in other countries is not, and they are poorer than we are and have a lower price, a higher cost of basket services and a lower salary. What we should point out here in the end, why this could not be done by increasing contributions like any remarks, by increasing tobacco taxes, etc. If we'd increased the percentage of the percentage of taxes and contributions and given to health care, we'd have fallen into rich countries' syndromes, under the quotes of "rich". The more you pour into the system, the more you're in a crisis. Look at the crisis of Ireland, look at the crisis of American health, Germany, etc. Because the more you pour geometric progression into the system, the more the cost increases. We know for what reasons, pharmaceutical industry, equipment manufacturers, etc. Therefore, an increase in the contribution cannot be compared, so an increase in the percentage of gross national income to be allocated to health care with an entry guard. The entry guard is a completely different category, Croatia is not there at this time and this is really the only way to introduce it. Therefore, our club supports this law, not with any joy, but with a message, this is the only way not to fall into a crisis by the end of the year called drug shortages, a shortage of money for health pay and a chain reaction to everything that can follow. That's why I'm appealing to you so that at least most of you can raise your hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41138	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41139	So I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, which is that the administrative fees are freed of pregnant women, that's incorrect. So only children and people with disabilities above 80% were released. And secondly, the correction of the incorrect quote where Mr. Hebrang said we couldn't introduce or raise new taxes. In fact, it's incorrect, no one asked for new taxes to be introduced, all they had to do was charge excise duties on tobacco that had significantly failed, and that was seen in this budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41140	Pregnant women fall into those preventive... Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41141	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Hebrang has claimed, I think it is incorrect, that this bill of law has reduced the blow to a minimum. It's simply not true, it's not an opinion, but objectively it's not. Because when they're hit by the poorest of the poor, then it's not the minimum of impact, it's the maximum impact.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41142	Thank you. Come on, we didn't see it, but the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41143	Mr. Vice President, if there's nothing you haven't seen, it's hard on us. It's hard on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41144	We didn't see each other together.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41145	All one thing. Honorable representative Hebrang, two corrections. He says it's a measure to get in the way of reform. That's not true. This is a measure to finance health unemployment. Secondly, we couldn't do anything in 2003 because we inherited what he said, bankruptcy. That's not true. The bankruptcy of the Republic of Croatia was in 1999 when the country was in financial and political isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41146	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, distinguished representative Josip Sudec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41147	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the third reform I'm experiencing, and every further one is becoming more difficult for us pensioners and for those who have the lowest income in the Republic of Croatia. Rights are equal, however, the form of these rights is individually realised. When you make a certain contribution, then you think about when it will be used. I'm sure when you're young and healthy, you don't think about using health care, and when you get to your age, health care is one of the most important factors in every pensioner's life. I must immediately tell you that 171,000 pensioners have less pensions than a thousand kunas. For them, 30 kuna means 6 days of survival, because when he pays the overhead he doesn't have more than 150 kuna, if he still has so much left to live for the whole month. So no one thinks about that category. I don't dare use one word, but if it isn't a quiet genocide for those people who are going to be in a position or not to use health care or if they're using it to go to the street and ask someone to give him 10 kuna so they can pay the doctor, so if they write him another 10 kuna, then if they can't, there's no or someone else has to pay for it. I don't see a mechanism here that'll pay for it. But so far, we've had some censorship. Have we forgotten about that censorship? Or tomorrow that census isn't worth it. Let's make a deal if it's a centurion of $1.330,00 kuna, then we have to free people up to that censorship because they can't survive. We offer a formula by which, with the regular harmonisation of pensions, pensioners would receive 17 kuna at every thousand. So 17 gets and 30 gets it. Something in that social health policy is not quite right. Does 30 kuna save this system? I don't think so. We're all more or less scared. I think Mr. Secretary, no matter how angry he is, he's made a mistake. He came out with a big reform, and when he saw that we had all the rest of the paf, that many of us had got sugar, that we had got high pressure, now we went from that reform to the beginning. Now that you've scared us or intimidated us with this big reform, we're going back to the beginning, but that start is worse, why, because it starts tomorrow, because it starts at the most awkward time, that at the same time, we need to know that 60% of the pensioners are suffering from between 2 and 3 diseases, according to a survey conducted by the Ministry of Health. Secondly, 32% of the benefits of drugs are constantly, these are the most endangered because they have to use medicines all the time, 15% are functionally disabled by 2.5% immovable, 23% of the pensioners are disabled, and the special problem is they think 27% who are single. However, there is nothing in this initial reform that we could do right away. Gentlemen, help in the house is not mentioned at all as something that would be a greater guardian than these 30 kunas. Then, home him then home treatment, we now force the patient to come to the health care station at the same time or at home or in the infirmary, while increasing travel costs because the gas went up and everything comes down to that poor customer service. But in those services we three on the one hand is a donor, on the other hand is a user and on the third hand is someone who serves both sides, looks like we forgot two factors here, one factor is a doctor and the other factor is the one that serves I think of the one that makes the drugs, I think we understand each other here. What about them, are they amnested whether it's none of their business, then, we're talking about leaving extra insurance behind. So we're giving 30 kuna extra insurance, for the pensioners it's not 50 anymore, it's 80 kuna, so it's increasing. And it becomes but at the same time the transport costs are lifted, funerals are abolished, and the reform is actually starting to work on the part where it will give the least effect, and it has caused the same dissatisfaction as those statements by the minister that we should pay for everything and how much we should pay. As for health care separation, we don't single out much less for regular pensions from basic work, it's 7.66 plus investment, and now that we compare it is a very large sum, when we see how much is given for pensions, how much is given for health care, then we'll all say that for both of us it gives too much. However, health care versus pensions is given really too much, now whether it is effectively used if we see that in primary health care or direct health care the biggest services have been done so far. Where we leak, leak to us in that consulate, leak to us in the hospital, leak to us in services that are part of this system, or financed from the system. And for this reason, I believe that we should review this health system, do a recovery program I was hoping that the government would come with a rehabilitation programme, introduce professional control and supervision of professional work, introduce that it should say that the processing of modern data is to be introduced into the system, that the system does not leak where it is not necessary, to review the use of healthcare because 84% of the population in 2004 used health care, which is a very high degree. Otherwise in Europe it is 67 or even 75 why we have 84% of the use of this system, whether we are all so sick or used to use to solve other problems that may not be purely healthy. Okay, and not to say now about this system proposed by the Croatian party of pensioners will not give support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41148	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41149	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, the Judge, said one statement that health pensions are too much. I would remind myself that according to the contribution to health care, the projection is for this year 13 billion and 600 billion and for pensions will be about 15 billion, however, at the annual level there is a pension payment of 24 and more than 24 billion, therefore the state makes up for all that difference unlike health, which Lesar mentioned, health is practically self-financed because health contributions cover almost all health costs. The state is practically very little co-financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41150	No, it wasn't a replica you have no right. You can't do business. The esteemed representative Bačić has corrected the incorrect allegations, and you do not have the right to reply. Next up is Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go. Excuse me, Minister. Would you like to do it now? On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Health Ljubicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I would briefly refer to some of the facts that we're constantly reading, and it seems to me that it's just a consequence of the press, so let's not take it as a fact. Namely, when a parliamentary representative wants to have some numbers, and I'm here ask me if I'll tell you all the numbers and there's no hiding. Rebalance 226 million kuna in health care is not true, it is the overall rebalancing of the system but not the rebalancing of health care, for health care it amounts to 114 million kuna and where that part to say so is touched. The insurance system and health care funds are not even touched, our citizens need to know. So no service will be denied because of that, which is important where we rationalized things again in this rebalancing process, we rationalized them in some kind of expert commission. I have about 60 and some expert commissions, each commission has between 7 and 15 members. All these people have agreed to volunteer on the basis of volunteering. They meet every month. So why pay them? They understand the situation we're in. And they understand what we're doing right now, and that's why we don't pay them, and that part we've offered for some more quality content within the rebalance. Furthermore, we are the force of intellectual services. Well, we won't have to repeat the Koprivnica with 7 million dollar intellectual services. Well, these are things that are unforgivable. Furthermore, capital investments. It is true, on some capital investments we have rebalanced and offered another form of funding. Why? Well, because there won't be any investment for the rest of the year. So I can't advance and give and pay in advance and then the performers run away what we know from history that it was. No, I'm paying for it. And the minute someone makes it through, I'll pay for the roof, when they make the second floor, I'll pay for the second floor. But if he's now in the ground floor phase and I'm now planning through which apparently this year he won't be finished, it's called responsibility to the budget money. And I absolutely work in that constellation to make things transparent and clear and to focus that money somewhere else. One answer to the question why an administrative fee or that an administrative fee has been affected. Look, the administrative fee won't go away. She's coming back into the system again to those very sick ones. So until a year ago, a year and a half ago, we had three centres of intervention cardiology. Which is, let me explain a little bit. So one of the most common diseases that causes death in us is a myocardial infarction, a heart attack. Three centres in Croatia could immediately be taken care of in such a way that a small prosthesis can be placed in the blocked blood vessel in the heart and that the patient survives and does not remain disabled. So that privilege was given to three hospitals or citizens who were with the three hospitals, better said the citizens of Zagreb. We have Croatia. We need to give every citizen in Croatia the same rights. At this moment we have six centres in Osijek, Split, Rijeka and three in Zagreb. And they receive patients from Pula, Čakovec, Varazdin, all over Croatia. But in order to allow the existence of such a system, we need to get some kind of injection from somewhere, and this is the type of injection. A healing injection so that the system can continue to support even more similar and similar services that not only do people better than save their lives. And I think that's what our citizens actually understand, understand, and I think they support at least in the force of contact that I've actually personally had in the last few months. And a few actually just sentences related to supplementary insurance. We've actually heard that extra security is what's going on with him. We need to know right now that the government has not touched additional security because of its social sensitivity. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the economic price at this point in time would be more than three hundred kuna. Well, at least that's easy to calculate. But no, we didn't do it, but we left everything as it is, we left additional insurance, although even today we all here in some way criticized it. We left it but we offered this alternative of those 30 kunas, maximum of 30 kuna per month. And allow me just what else is here an hour before actually the representative of the Croatian pensioner party spoke about some alleged announcements of the reform. No, I don't. It's in the press again. If there's no quoting my word, and there isn't, then it's just fiction. They invent numbers for dialysis patients worth thousands of kunas. Well, that's clear that these are crazy things. So let's not base ourselves on the press again. The real press is that it writes what it wants because it has to be sold and, of course, no funds are chosen in that sale. I have to admit when I have and believe me, the decision of this government is very firm, and I think we have enough power to carry out all structural changes in the health system, so I'll show you in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41152	I thank the minister. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41153	It is incorrect that it is very unusual for a minister to call here representatives and all the public not to trust the media, but there he is. The media suffers every criticism and rightly so. However, I and every average citizen far away, far more trust any media than you and the entire government. It's a fact and it's primarily incorrect what you've hardened, and you've twice claimed that we can't trust the media. You should learn something in the media freedom constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41154	Thank you. You've corrected an incorrect quote, if it is, and I ask you to make the intonation of your inaccuracy and address the Minister and the Government to this House of Commons. The word has a distinguished representative, Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! Well, here's to the fact that there wasn't this little heat at the end of the last debate, you'd think that in principle we'd all agree that the health care system is really a necessary reform, and all of what we've been doing or everything we've been doing for years is so problematic that we're somehow less inclined to criticise and give more good advice on how to get out of that vicious circle called the health system. It is not only important for Croatia if we look at other countries, especially countries that are far richer, then you will find satisfaction with health care there, unfortunately as one of the reasons for the greater dissatisfaction of citizens rather than even in Croatia. Namely, there are problems quite different from in Croatia, but from what could be heard here but from one who knows how the health care system in Croatia works I think you will agree with us that we are specific in one situation, which is that our health care system works thanks to one symbiosis on the one hand, patient patience and on the other hand the sacrifice of health care staff working in that system. Of course, such systems that operate on such a principle cannot endure for too long and that the more serious changes we can or call reform, although I avoid calling it that, I will tell you for what reason, are really standing before us. It is really hard to expect that the system works well for us when you have a situation that about 1.3 million insurance workers in Croatia do not count those in the gray economy with costs for about 4.2 million people, not counting those contributions or those funds that come directly from the budget that are significantly less necessary for such a large system. Otherwise, when you look online, these two words of health reform appear to you some 2,000 different documents. This speaks on the one hand, it can talk about the seriousness of this problem, or the seriousness that the health care system encounters in normal operation, and on the other hand it can talk about how quite lightly these two words are used and indeed there is no Government since the independence of the Republic of Croatia that has not tried to do anything in this system. He's far more complex, and I don't think this part we're talking about today is going to solve these proposed measures. Therefore, what is really needed is something that is already working to begin or continue a series of activities that must ultimately include rationalising health costs, far more stringent control of the work of the hospital system. That's why something we've been talking about for years and we haven't defined yet, it's so-called. Excuse me, this is the introduction of a standard health care package that will be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the supervision of prescriptions, the justification for referring to certain diagnostic procedures is indeed a devastating fact that if I am not mistaken for one information, more than 70% of diagnostic findings and highly differentiated patients never raise at all. Or the last piece of information I had a chance to read somewhere that about 90% search magnetically... The resonant, which today belongs safely to one of the most expensive or expensive diagnostic tests, finds are completely neat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think there's a lot of room for savings, a space for rationalization and a space where it can act to make this system more efficient. But we certainly agree in one way that the alternative, or alternatives to health reforms, does not exist and can only lead to deepening the crisis, the financial crisis on the one hand and, on the other hand, a reduction in the quality of a set of health services. Of course, in front of me as well as in front of all of you but every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is asked the question when it comes to, or a few questions when it comes to this law. First, whether the introduction of a taxi will save the health care. And I'm sure he won't. Is he going to fill the budget? I don't think we all agree to fill it either. Will it further impoverish socially endangered citizens? I'm not sure. In a country that has 3 million cell phones I think you can find 30 kunas, up to 30 kuna a month and for this type of health consumption, or so on. administrative fees. But it was not even the intention of this government, and I am indeed the last to support a law that would ultimately have as a measure of impact, a social blow to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here's what we really need to think of as one part of what I was talking about at the beginning, so one segment of the overall health reform. In the end, I will conclude what I have said, therefore, about this Law and these changes that this Law is making, and the Ministry of Health has one great, one great task for you, the Ministers have given you the honor or the role of biting the acid apple, and I hope there will be no worm in which we spoke, therefore, that in their further work and in the work of this government, therefore, this is really just one step in the realization of the complete reform of health and all those segments that I was talking about at the beginning, and by taking into account that in mind and considering it as a truly only segment of the overall reform, I will support the adoption of this law and these measures that you have today had... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41156	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is after this debate that actually tries to show the problem a little bit in the other light and drag it to the point of jeopardizing the patient’s rights. I'd kind of put the whole problem back on each other's thinking. What is a health care system and how it should be and what it has so far won. I would say no matter who managed it and how it managed that system always works once with his inert and he's like some... It always works no matter how much funds it gets into the system financially or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he actually does his homework. He solves all patients who come to primary care level. Sometimes with more success, sometimes with less, sometimes we're dissatisfied with it, sometimes we're very satisfied and it's good to notice these bad things, criticize them and try to fix them. And we've now brought ourselves into one situation that one system that works that way that we've tried various measures in the last 10 years, 15 years to change them to fix them. I believe everyone has changed with a good intention of making things better. But then something happened that we weren't expecting, we weren't planning. So it has already mentioned additional insurance has given its effects that spending has increased especially prescription drugs. But another effect that hasn't been mentioned and I'll mention it. While it was participation and when the day was paid at the hospital 10 kuna, then the patient himself controlled his stay, he said I was going home because he was subscribing the bill. When this stopped by introducing additional insurance the average treatment in the hospital was extended by more than one day, these are indicators and this is one of the indirect effects of the supplementary insurance, all in good interest. So we've already told these numbers how many three million recipes have been increased from 2002 to 2004, five times the cost of supplemental insurance medicines has been shown not to say the effects that indirectly had the necessary insurance, therefore, has been shown to have increased costs. What is important and what, at first, seemed to be good, in 2002 let the health care system enter into the budget so that there would be a set of salaries, a fine deal, there would be investments and everything would cover the state. But that's not what happened. Today, in the debate, counterpart Lesar showed that in fact, when it comes to health care, there is always a small maternal relationship and he never pays his bill until the end and the health care goes on and on and on and on. And when we look at the contributions themselves, they are as much as they are, all in total 15%... to pay and it's said to be 7% or slightly more than 7% of gross national income, that's a lot but they have some countries 11, some have 5, some have 9, that's up to us to decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether we want to finance healthcare from contributions, exclusively from contributions or from some local system, a little contribution, a little bit from the budget. Are we going to the citizens... payments and we can arrange that and that's something that's gonna be right in front of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I think the social state has to rest on solidarity, and mandatory insurance is exactly that, everyone pays for those who work, pay differently, but everyone uses equal service, equal quality. Whatever. The second level of solidarity is supplementary insurance and it should work and I think when it is introduced in a market way, when the state determines that simply with this gross national income cannot finance more than a certain amount per year, then it will have to be openly told to the people and the citizens of this country you have to pay one part, you can do it directly or you will be provided through supplementary insurance. But that's then, it's a political decision and it's going to have to be agreed one day. And then we blame no one, it's the minister and it's the wrong thing to do. So these administrative measures, they are actually one fire measure that is trying now in the system of eh, not so much in the income matter to bring some big effect but simply to make us imagine the system of health and I would say we who are all dealing with health in a certain way or in the Ministry or in some other institutions are now being brought into a situation that we are self-punishing. We punish ourselves, and that's why the Minister of Health is unpopular. Anyone who does that is unpopular and he has been constantly brought into a situation to build from the impossible possible. Why does the minister of justice say "No court problems are solved" and says, "More judges should be hired" and more judges approved without a problem. And resolving these trials is still the same as it was. No one calls the Minister of Justice. But the health minister calls everyone. So we say that we have to do something that other ministers are not asked to do. The Minister of Health must make it impossible and then he comes out with such proposals because he's not forced because there's no money in the register. And the cost goes up. Some kind of first step must be taken. That's the one that's in front of us now. Regardless of all the negativity I think we should support it because it's the first step in one approach to health care in another way. I absolutely advocate that solidarity becomes the main foundation and health system but that some forms of payment will have to be that for sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41158	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41159	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is another one of the laws that came down here in the House, and the consequences will have citizens who mean here is not ambitiously announced yet it's so clear and ultimately there is so much openness that this bill is no longer called reform law. It's one of the administrative measures that obviously wants to be one very easy painless, carefree way but very painful to move certain means, or how the minister has now hardened the injection. So we banned these people yesterday, workers who don't get paid to come here at least tell us that at least we know what it's all about, so at least there's one of us that's working. This morning we lifted the zero VAT rate, something that had been well-existed for years and practically raised the tourism of Dalmatia to our feet, and then we claimed that it was not a good measure. That one tax of at least 10% and so should also be "carved" there. And then today here with this bill of law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act I think it was correct then say we don't know otherwise, those funds are necessary. Is this the way? It's something that really pisses me off, and maybe my intonation, personally, really pisses me off when you want to show this as something very healthy, like something very necessary because there's no other way than this way. This is one of the easiest ways to hit the poor. Everyone knows that. There's people in front of politics. This is what any average citizen would know, there should not be a politician or have any special experience in government or politics to resort to such a measure. Mr. Minister, you said you found this, and this is one of the reasons why you have to resort to such an amendment to the law or to the introduction of this obligation, a new charge because you found such a situation in 2003. And you didn't find anything in 2003. In 2003, something could have been found by your predecessor, former Minister Hebrang. You could complain about the fate you found in 2005. But if you already like to deal with history, then for the sake of correctness, you should have remembered or explored what you all left together in 1999. But let's let it go. It's really not correct, but you'll get an answer every time you raise that question, but I wouldn't really go back in time. Because you're here and set up for the present and our near future. So you're finding solutions, not finding excuses. However, this government abounds with many excuses all over one matrix. It's really when there's no more original reason. You keep saying you have the strength. And it's really a demonstration, really, and this law is one demonstration of strength. But it's easy to be strong on the weakest and the powerless. It's not power at all. It should be strong there towards the strong, but the state, especially in this very sensitive segment of health, continues to show that it is very strong towards the weak and weak to the strong. If the system was working then there would certainly be a way to greet these strong, very strong and determined, and I welcome and behave. But for them, the government was founded quickly. To form a quick enterprise, those who have remained in debt to the workers. Who aren't unemployed, and they don't have a salary, and they're gonna have to pay for this. And who remained in debt to the state. It doesn't matter. And so these gaps and holes need to be filled in somehow. And that's one of those important, one of the major objections that the opposition has against the government myself. That the government is incapable of solving problems and of solving structural changes. So this is patching holes and how, in what way? The poor thing. Well, the easiest thing to do is to peel off the poor girl. Well, rich and rich are rich because they're peeling the poor, but let's at least make that constitutional principle work, the principle of solidarity. Therefore, here too, you should consider how to fill this injection or how to create that injection, this input that you need to act in order to act in this principle of solidarity. But we completely, completely abandoned him. And what's going to happen? You're counting on this money. You're not getting this money. Because these people won't be able to go to the doctor and they didn't go out of the obstetrics but out of the disease. So they're either going home to be treated, they're going to buy drugs, and abroad, they're cheaper in Hungary. You refer to Hungary as a country parallel here, but in Hungary, medicines are cheaper. And so this is really an account without a waiter. We're going to have sicker people, you're going to leave them simply to natural selection because doctors won't have to do what's necessary, you can turn around, and you're going to lose this money that you're counting on with this money. So here are the countries of the parallels listed. Yes, nowhere, to pay nicely for this health care fee everywhere, so the UK, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Finland, Austria, the Netherlands and Switzerland are quoted. On several occasions, I'm not going to say that this came from this ministry, I checked and it was not exactly where some of the countries were listed. I didn't check this out, and I can't claim it, so I'm left to trust you. But in the UK, but in Slovakia, but in the Czech Republic, but in Hungary, but in Finland, but in Austria, but in the Netherlands, but in Switzerland, there are no workers who work and do not get paid. Therefore, we should look at that fact as well. The fact of history and the history of health care in the Republic of Croatia that has always been based on solidarity where we are a high standard and the survival and resilience of the nation, and against many of the problems and physical and psychological ones that have acquired it and in the recent past, we have also had the thanks of such a health care that we have and the availability of the health of citizens. I can tell you an example in Zadar that you may know, when during the war a group of American doctors arrived free of charge to help and work at our Zadar hospital that was left when Zadar ran out of electricity and water. People were surprised, they didn't find an explanation that it's been a city under siege for months without electricity and no water, no infectious diseases, no sepsis, and they found after they got back to America, that the only explanation is that, our good prevention. So what you think was bad because there was no such availability of health for the citizens, you see it as bad, and that's why this is good for the citizens, what you say is good, will be questioned. People are getting older, and the younger ones won't either, especially those who won't be able to pay for this will be provided the kind of health care she's been up to now and that's the fact. So the message is we're going to be more and more sick, health is no longer available to everyone, it becomes a privilege of the rich. So the fact is that you won't raise these funds that you're counting on, but what's going to happen in the future, so who's sick, there's no saving him, and for these rich people, we're going to consider making spare parts and cloning for therapeutic purposes where we're going to, so that's something that's certainly a thing of the future and, of course, it's only going to be available to the rich, because you see that this elemental protection is already you say 30 kuna and we don't trust the press, and that's just access and seeing a doctor. And then where are the instructions, and where are all the other recipes a month, where are the chronic patients? Have you heard perhaps here today an appeal from the Association of Diabetics who are looking for the release, that is to say, of this necessary drug to be available, etc. etc. So turn to work if you know how to work, the complete government, so that in this way you really don't peel the poor. This is one fact, you can be very upset about what's going on here, but please go ahead and make counter arguments if I'm wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41160	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Health and Social Care Ljubicic. Here you go. Excuse me for correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41161	Thank you very much. The Honorable Madam Representative has said several incorrect allegations. The first is, this is... Yes, all of it, but I only have a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is a patching of holes in the poor and that solidarity is lagging behind. That's not true at all. Solidarity here is very prominent because millions of people are excluded from the administrative fee which in other transition countries is not, we have told examples and all preventive checks have been excluded. Therefore, it will not affect patient health. A second incorrect quote. We'll be getting sicker because health is unreachable, the number of prescriptions and instructions will be reduced. An increased number of recipes and instructions is contrary to health indicators. Over the past three years, the number of recipes and instructions has increased at 15%, consumption at 10% and health indicators are worse than ever before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41162	Thank you. You want to go now? The word has a distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41163	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I must in the beginning express my dissatisfaction not only with this law but much more because we thought that we would get laws on the bench that could be marked as reform laws. I think the state of the health system is very bad and this is something that will absolutely not solve the state of the health system, this is something that could be called a fire department that is patching up budget holes, but what are the key problems of the health system there is therefore nothing will change. So I'm dissatisfied with this law too, but much more because I don't see that there's simply a intention to change something more seriously in the health system at least as things are now. I said this was a patching of a budget hole, so something that's also here from the HDZ Club was said, so the system can't survive financially anymore. However, I think you might have been able to collect those funds in some other way. I'll just remind you, here I was able to calculate here. You in the budget rebalancing have documented that you have lost four items in four items, so four items concerning special taxes on oil derivatives, beer, tobacco processing and luxury taxes because you failed to charge the planned funds of 734 million kuna. So much more than what you plan to get by this law. So you might have been able to find some other way, obviously, that some of the services worked much better, that there are still no people around the corner selling cigarettes on black. Since some others have done their job in the country, they would not now have to pass this law, which actually covers budget gaps and ineffectiveness of the state apparatus will pay unfortunately for the patients. I think this is a kind of disease tax precisely because this administrative tax will only be paid by those who come to the doctor, so those who are sick, I think there are fewer people who go to the doctor for some fun, I think the largest number of people go because they are sick and need the help of a doctor. So they're going to pay that tax exclusively, there's no solidarity, and I think it's about going to one group here which, therefore, a group of patients is multiplely smaller than a group of healthy people and I think that the most vulnerable group is, and that this is also the way it should not have gone to fundraising, and I think that the foundation for the collection of funds could have been much different, much wider, and not only to fall on sick people. I'm not even one to say that you don't need to be participated in the health system so that everyone should be released now. I think we still have soundly secured health care. However, it should be said that certain categories should have been released here, and once again, I would like to say this approach, where once it hit all the patients, and it was not taken care of how far their options were, I think, simply not fair, it's not correct and it's not solidarity. Namely, the same participation with the doctor will pay me and the same participation will be paid by the pensioner who has 4 thousand kuna pensions and the one who has 800 kuna pensions. Therefore, a person who has 800 kuna or who is unemployed, who lives perhaps out of 700 kuna at the employment office, will be difficult to give 10 and 30 kuna. It will be because it is many for them, for it may be bread and milk for them today, which is their only meal that day. So I think we should have heard a little bit more about seeing health problems, but we still keep each other's solidarity somewhere, and all the burden of this doesn't fall on all those who are sick. The fact is, some people here have spoken and we keep calling for debts and in 2003. In 2000, I'll tell you what's completely irrelevant to me what's happened over the past few years, it's important to me what's today, and today the situation in the system is that you have bigger waiting lists, that you still have large debts of the hospital system, that you have still debts in primary health care, that you still have problems with paying medicines, that you still have long waiting lists for diagnostic checks, even have lately, and that in some hospitals they're taking off their schedule and operations to save and that hospitals as long as they're in the gauges to say that they're jobs, I can't say positive but still with less loss than it would be to do any surgery. For example, I'm going to tell you that I have one piece of information, for example, that the HZZO drug spending plan in this year, so that most likely if the drug consumption continues at this rate alone at this point had billions and 140 million kunas of debt, therefore, we haven't solved those problems that generate debt and health problems all the time, we're only dealing with a partial solution to the problem of half a billion kuna, and that's not certain that we're going to collect. It should also be said when talking about some debts, for example, that some indicators also point to something that is a little bit radical in the health system, which is that regardless of some increase in income in healthcare last year, that almost 79% of it was spent on wages, so only 21% remained on raising the quality of medical service, I think it's bad. This is the result, unfortunately, of a hasty collective contract which has not again solved the problem in health when it comes to doctors because it has not increased their salary enough by only 10%, I personally think it is one profession that is quite underpaid for work and responsibility they have. And finally, I would like to say that when you spoke about budget rebalancing, that is, when you spoke in your opening statement, you mentioned prevention and you said that it was extremely important, I absolutely agree with you, you also stated in the explanation. Investment in prevention is much more cost-effective than treatment after illness. However, in your rebalancing of the budget that we discussed here yesterday, you took off, you halved almost the means to prevent some diseases. So I'll tell you, for example, that you've completely taken the means to train and train health care professionals and associates to prevent addiction, treatment, rehabilitation of addicts. That you have halved resources to preserve and improve the reproductive health of young people, to improve female reproductive health and to prevent malignancies. Now, I'm wondering if we've halved those funds in such a way as to ensure a good quality prevention of all these diseases listed here through these four programs. And finally speaking of all the problems, I would just like to say that unfortunately in the health care system we have had a very good step since 2000, one good progress, it is about the transplants where we have climbed say doctors in the golden middle of the European Union countries. Unfortunately, in the past year and I'm saying this because you've also re-balanced some of the funds relating to the transplant, so in the last year we've fallen back to the level of 2000, we've again taken a few steps back and I think Mr. Ministers that these are the problems we need to talk about, that these are the problems that we need to solve, because this law that only shuts down the fire department, and it's not really just a small part of the loss in the health system, and it's high time that the health system is really starting to make reform moves because I think our nation is not sick, but our health system is sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41164	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Health and Social Welfare Neven Ljubičić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me take a few sentences to look back on everything that's actually been said. In fact, it seems to me that I've heard some contradictions on the one hand, we're all saying that health care professionals are being paid off on the other hand, we're criticizing how we gave them, we decide if we give them, we won't give them. So these are contradictions, I must admit we have to give a certain part, no one can work the average salary of a nurse is below 3000 kuna, ladies and gentlemen it's the persons who do shift work, who do 12, 12, 24, 12 days, 12 nights, 24 hours free. I ask that it be accepted because it's extremely significant. Doctors, we gave responsibility exactly 10%, the government stands firm behind that decision, I think it's absolutely fair. If we tried to improve this part by other means, we did, and I think we did it. It's about that famous rebalancing thing again and again, actually, it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's just... it's... it's Ask me. So, the reproductive health of women, prevention of malignant diseases, etc., exactly I cut down intellectual services, commissions, so ladies and gentlemen when we did and looked at the review, it was specifically about the 2003 revision, some members of the commission had over 60 thousand kuna, on the Commission itself, it was inadmissible, I'm sorry, I won't allow it. Transplant, we've increased resources. There were two separate items of transplant that we united by one, used the rebalancing now to reroute from one to another, why. Because for the first time we have made lists, lists of non-gifters, lists of donors of individual organs, lists of transplanted patients, etc., which is extremely significant, in fact, without that simple system cannot function. Allow me a few words about this solidarity system. Well, it's unquestionable that this solidarity system remains. Well, that's actually what the constitution guarantees. And he's not coming into question at all. I think we've mixed up some things here. What we're talking about today is an administrative fee, and I heard that the administrative fee we made up, etc., here I've just got, I've done a little bit of e-mailing, it's Nicole Tepei, a senior health specialist who appears from Washington, etc., have a large database and can quickly do us a certain search. Here it is, Austria 4.5, U.S. dollar per prescription, six U.S. dollars for each hospitalization, Finland 11 euros per every doctor's review, 22 euros per every specialist review, 26 euros per day of hospitalization, I don't know what else to do. Greece 15 dollars in general for all, Portugal 30 U.S. dollars also for all, so absolutely it's data and it's not made up, they exist. The administrative fee is one actually form that is being worked everywhere in the world and that we have to admit and we used. But what's important, which is why there's always trying to point out that it's a disease tax. So what are we talking about? Well, we don't give it to cigarettes or I don't know what. No, we're going back to the system, we're giving it to the sick. Well, I want to give them more. I won't give it to the committees, no. I won't even give intellectual services, no. And if you look at the rebalancing practically no kuna has left HZZO. No one noticed that. So, no kuna. That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we know there were similar situations before. Let's move on. Let me actually hear it all the time. We won't be able to move those funds. I don't know why. I have to be honest. So it's already going into the prophesying phase and I'm incompetent here, I'm still just a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41166	I thank the minister. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister! They're not agents in contradiction. The government and you are in contradiction, and now I'm going to tell you why. For a long time, Prime Minister Sanader has been asking all political factors in the Republic of Croatia and the people to have a general political consensus to implement reforms in Croatian health. General request is, let's all make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41168	I thank you, you can't argue under an institution to correct an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41169	Excuse me, this is a correction. Let me tell you something else. And then comes a proposal that doesn't come from reform or R. Which is the contradiction of the MPs when they ask for reform and say this is it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41170	Okay, don't argue now. You've corrected an incorrect quote, I thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41171	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the minister who said that during your authority, that you had improved the transplant program, formed the lists and so on. Mr. Minister, 20 days ago I read in the paper and checked, it's true, the transplant was performed by a doctor who doesn't have the necessary education or license. So, during your term, patients became test rabbits.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41172	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41173	Mr. Minister, I just want to correct your claim that I find incorrect, that you are now particularly concerned about the profession of nurses. I want to tell you this occasion that as chairman of the board of parliament a dozen days ago, I held a thematic session on the subject of a nurse's work-legal position and school problems, and I want to tell you that today I have sent the report and the minutes from that session and I also want to say here that you did not personally attend that session, but you did not even send an authorised representative who could speak relevantly about how the Ministry of Health takes care of nurses.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41174	Thank you. Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the future, I'll raise the instrument a little more. Well, Mr. Secretary said this law didn't violate the Constitution. It's simply incorrect because this law just makes it impossible to consume the constitutional right to health care. As much as you claim, Mr. Minister, that the Constitution is going in one lane, and it allows us, but by law we are making it impossible to do so. Mr. Minister, and when we talk about the prices of medical examinations, it would be good to take a comparative look at both the price of work and the amount of wages in the countries you listed and the price of work and wages in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41176	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The long-published amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act that the public has long speculated and calculated have finally come to the public. And now that we see what these changes are making, I really don't understand why it took so much secrecy when they don't actually contain any elements of reform or a serious shift in health funding, and I would even dare say something that could cause a social earthquake. What's ahead of us is nothing but another of this government's fire-fighting measures. It's if we try to paint it as if a hole appears on the sidewalk, so if we don't get it in time, it gets bigger and bigger, there's a danger of getting into it eventually. Now we're dragging her around with some kind of asphalt layer, but if the sidewalk doesn't work out in quality, then that hole will show up again very soon. So these changes and additions to the Health Insurance Act are nothing more than an attempt to temporarily patch the hole. In the light of this proposal, the law notes that the implementation of the applicable Health Insurance Act has not contributed to the stabilisation of the health insurance system despite a number of amendments thereto. So does the proposer feel that this proposal will contribute to the stabilisation of the health system. In the opening statement, it is further noted that the health care system is burdened with a number of problems and, among other things, it is said that the rationalisation methods have produced results but have not been sufficient to align the expenditure with the revenues, and the debt of the Medicines Institute has continued to grow. The same trend in cost increases continues in 2005 which, without intervention in the system, would lead to a new deepening of the time limit for payment of medicinal products to suppliers, thus jeopardising the supply system. Once again, I ask the question whether the proposer really believes that such measures will contribute to the stabilisation of the health system, because it is unquestionable and we are all aware that the health care system is really burdened with a number of problems and that without serious and systematic health reforms, it is really threatening to collapse. The fundamental change in the proposed amendments to the Health Insurance Act is the introduction of an administrative tax on health care services. The law, though reternizes something, has given up initially announced changes that all will pay for everything, but some maximum monthly amount is introduced that will not exceed 30 kuna. According to the bill's own author's calculations, the Ministry of Health and Social Care would make 300 million kunas at the annual level by introducing this kind of health tax. According to some calculations he also spoke of, a colleague named Lesar assumed that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute would lack 2.3 billion kuna. When the 4.1 billion kuna of HZZO debt is added on 31 December 2004, and payment deadlines that exceeded 250 days, we get a balance that says that this government, regardless of its full mouth, is rationalization and financial consolidation of the system, does not know everything at all what it would do and where to start to stabilise the system more permanently. If we take into account the calculation of the total debt then these estimated 300 million kuna from administrative fees really won't mean much. Minister Ljubic stressed on several occasions that he believes the introduction of an administrative fee will stop a rapid increase in costs and demand for medicines. It seems to me that he forgot one fact that drug consumption is not dependent on the patient’s will but primarily on the doctor’s behaviour. This, therefore, by the hope of Minister Ljubicic, seems to me to be a utopia after all. Obligations to pay an administrative fee are freed children up to 18 years of age, disabled with a body damage of at least 80%. And now I wonder what's wrong with the students and the pensioners, shouldn't they also be freed from paying this tax? The more this government keeps trying to declare itself socially sensitive. Furthermore, what about multiple voluntary blood donors? We know that blood is one of what we call dry gold in medicine. Therefore, I feel that these people should be stimulated in some way. Clearly, this government is aware of the fact that the most expensive is health care in which prevention is spared. On behalf of that administrative fees are also exempt from preventive checks. And another amendment to this proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act. And that's the cost of transport. This legislative proposal found that insured persons have the right to compensation for transport costs if they use health care in a contracted health institution, i.e. the office of the contracted doctor, private practices that are more than 100 km away from the place of residence. Because the necessary healthcare can't be achieved in a nearby, contracted health care facility. Minister Ljubicic today found that all travel expenses at a distance of more than 30 km have been paid so far. Unfortunately, however, that is not true, as it seems in practice today. A patient who, for example, performed surgery a few years ago in a medical facility that is from his place of residence, a distance, means more than 30 km away, so if we want even more than 100 km and his medical records are in that medical facility, then he has to go to the doctor who operated on him. His general practice doctor will give him instructions to go into control but won't give him a travel order with an explanation that he can't give it by law. To my question to the Ministry of Health which is why patients cannot get a travel order especially in cases where they have to go to a more remote health care facility from the place of residence and do we thus restrict the right of the patient to choose. I have been told that a patient may receive a notice for any medical institution but with that instruction, he cannot receive a travel order if such treatment can be performed in an institution that is closer to his place of residence. Therefore, patients have the right to choose only declaratively and do not really have the right to do so. And what do these amendments of the law carry with them? So it increases that distance to 100 km and now take it for example. The situation in Split-Dalmatia County in which we have only one hospital center, i.e. only KBC Split, and this is what the entire county is gravity for KBC. And the islands and the Zagora and the coast. For example. The distance between Makarska and Split is 60 km, so all patients who have to go from Makarska to KBC Split because unfortunately the home of health Makarska has been brought into such a state that it is simply no longer able to provide any more significant health services other than those of the basic ones, so these patients will have to pay to go to Split for checks, and note that the bus ticket from Split to Makarska is 30 km, 30 kuna, means times two, so now that we calculate all this together, then the tax, etc., when all this is calculated then is really one sum that unfortunately in today's living conditions not everyone can afford. And finally to conclude with a law that totals half a billion kuna gains and without one serious reform move to increase the efficiency of the system, there is no end to the waste of health. I know that no reform is a popular measure, reforms are difficult but in this system it is necessary and it is necessary under emergency if we do not want the whole health system to really collapse very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41178	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to say I understand the MPs' position, but they should understand the opposition's representatives, too. In fact, reforms and changes are really ahead of Croatian health care to determine what is being treated on the principle of solidarity and mutuality of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and what is paid by the patient whether it pays directly or by his supplementary insurance. So beyond the principle of solidarity and mutuality. This should, of course, be added in which directions Croatian medicine, Croatian health care, will develop, and all must be mixed in order to know what it is for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Such a health reform was announced by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and requested through newspapers a consensus of political factors in the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, the bill of law comes that says health care is fine. Health care is all right, and the minister on behalf of the government claims it, there's no rational, everything is rational, and there's no problem with the organization, we just need the money, and we're going to get that money by introducing, watch out for taxes, tax is tax, it's just a different name. When we look at it, of course, that discrimination between the announcement and the offer is frustrating, it's frustrating, it's frustrating the Croatian public and the representatives of us. Well, we have to expect, we have to expect a well-known health certificate to know what's waiting for us when we get to the doctor. Without that, there's no social or health care. Without it, it can't be. Now, if it's tax or tax, it doesn't make any sense, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what we call it. Is that on the principle of solidarity? It's not. It is neither in solidarity nor in the principle of reciprocity. Why? Which only some are excluded and there is no principle of solidarity in the sense that one for another who has more salaries for one who has less, there is no such thing, in this proposal there is no such thing. And to be an even more drastic lack of social sensitivity, in the proposal of this Law on the obligation to pay that tax, no exception. Do you know who? They're not exclusive people who are unemployed. The unemployed have to pay taxes when they go to the doctor. They're not exceptional. Do you know who else? Social care users. They're not exclusive! There's something else, there's no exception to disabled people with disabilities below 80% of the damage. And what can a citizen conclude from it, even a representative? The crisis is people, there's no money. There's no money. And exactly my colleague Bacic said well, that health care really spins. Well done, that's fine. It's spinning. But we're building a system, Doctor. So you're not satisfied with doctors that you have to spin sometimes satisfied or dissatisfied, that's proof and appear in health strikes and it's a drastic form of strike. So we don't build a system, we don't change that system that doesn't suit health care professionals, workers, doctors, nurses, but please don't favor those who need medical attention the most. Well, I don't think we're in a Parliament that we didn't use to say incognito, not to say that we're parliamentary representatives and came to ask the doctor for help. Well, I recently paid 650 kuna for my little searches. 650 kunas and I wouldn't stand up to it if we had a system of solidarity and reciprocity built and if I knew I could be provided not in HZZO. It should force HZZO to compete on market principles with other insurance companies and the insurance event costs so much. But we must therefore have a minimum of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in advance. The Prime Minister spoke of such a model and would come before such a proposal to the Croatian Parliament. On this proposal he asked for a consensus and there was a season because it is a really big system, because it is not only social, it is an economically large system, an extremely large one, to seek consensus although it is not normal in politics but in countries that build the system, which are in transition and even I could accept it. There's no such thing. And, of course, the contradiction is not in the demands of parliamentarians to rationalise the system, so it is easy to state in that system the irrational business, the irrationality and the underrated value of that system. Here's an example. Some of us watched "Open" on Croatian TV. The entire Croatian public is told by a Croatian hospital partner: I invested in Croatian health care, I provide health services better than Croatian health care, and I pay credits and buy healthcare machines. He told the Croatian public, Croatian health care. And we're now saying that everything's fine with the health care we just need the money from the tax. Well, that if I'm wrong, but please let me really frustrated it. It's really frustrating. It frustrations us all simply because I still think that Croatian healthcare has a really competitive capacity in European frameworks. I am not an expert on health care but I have heard people who appreciate the Zagreb Faculty of Medicine and Zagreb and Croatian Health. I've heard it outside, people who are experts on it. But if we do not use our competitive or comparative advantages then we really do not deserve better health and our position as politicians in Croatian society and the debate on this is not a debate between us in the Croatian Parliament, this is a debate among Croatian citizens because they are looking for changes in Croatian health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41180	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41181	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I want to correct Mr. Lek's allegations that the motionary with this was going to say in health is all right we just need money. Well, the promoter wrote nicely, which means administrative fees are very correct. Administrative fees may bridge the period to a significant reorganisation of the health insurance system. Very correct, clear and clear for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41182	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41183	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative said the HZZO should be forced to go with additional insurance to the market. This cannot, of course, be an exact allegation, because HZZO is not a market institution but is an extremely social institution owned by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41184	Thank you. The word is represented by Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking here today about one thing that we all care about and that we all think that we all understand and absolutely support today's presentations and I believe that people have the right to their point of view and see things one way or another. We can see this letter now that I wrote like this, and we can see it like this. So it depends on which side it's viewed. But if the letter looks like this, then how do we look at it it has the same shape? So there's no use approaching paper on one side or on the other but simply realizing that it's one circle that looks the same from all positions. This was said by my colleague Bačić in a very practical way, and this can all be understood by health care and the system that has its own product, which has service providers, service users, or customers and these services cost. Unlike the market you were talking about earlier here, health care is not being treated and prices in health care as is otherwise the market. Otherwise on the market if we give more services, more opportunities, more choices, then the price usually falls. In the health system, that's not true. So the health system behaves absolutely inappropriately when it comes to the market. That means the more services there are, the more expectations there are, the more lengths I have to say life like that, the more cost of health care is more expensive and higher. That's how it is in Croatia, that's how it is all over the world. There is no system in which health services, or the price of health, do not grow from day to day as Professor Hebrang spoke. There is also no health system or state, regardless of the level of achievement in which patients are satisfied with the medical service in that system. So they are satisfied up to one level, but if you're doing a survey, then you'll see if the Canadian asks or I don't know Sweden he'll say he has a lot of objections to the health system and would like to improve it. But there are countries that systems don't have. So there are countries that unfortunately cannot maintain the system. We watched what we are talking about today, or these amendments and additions to this Law, one way or another, turning this paper one way or another and seeing the letter as we saw it from any angle, we need to realize that this, that this bill was passed and that it was brought with the aim of preserving the system. So in a certain way, the system was being maintained, which was also discussed by Professor Andrija Hebrang. There have been several objections, I would say very incriminating, very, I would say, I could also say incorrect by opposition MPs or advocates. One of them is, as this is portrayed as some kind of groovy drug, as if it were health, and it's forgotten that even the largest number of medicines is not sweet taste. It's that he's bitter. But it's necessary to actually maintain life and sustain it. If individually, if we look at this bill in detail, then it seems to me that although I am not giving myself the right, the lawyers probably know better to say this part of Mr. Minister of Article 2, the first part, the first part of this article is unnecessary because it is repeated in the following article. So I don't know, I think even that article could be shortened, and that would make it more clear. In the end, it was a great pleasure for me as someone who, as a doctor, to hear on behalf of the Club the presentation of Professor Andrija Hebrang and I, without any harm, would suggest that this exposure be copied, multiplied and it would be good for us all to read it every time we talk about health care and health systems regardless of which points we approach it because if we read it, if we understood it, and if we taught it specifically applies to colleagues from the opposition, then we would have much less based remarks on things and on proposals that are very well established and which are necessary to maintain the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41186	Thank you very much. Replica of Madam Representative, Mrs. Brdaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41187	Thank you. Here, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will extend the proposal of my colleague Bagaric, so I suggest that the exposure of fellow Hebrang be shared with all those who will have to pay these additional 30 kunas, and have small salaries, pensions or are unemployed because it is, it is probably going with those bitter pills that the doctor mentioned. I think that from all the debates we've had so far, it can be concluded that we all know that this system lacks money, but we are against the Spartan way of solving this problem. So whoever has the strength to survive on their own, the rest of them will die and the problem will be solved naturally. We're about to make the funds move in some other way. That's the only difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41188	That would be nice to know which way it is, and then everyone would be happy. Well, then we shouldn't have this at all. We'd have money and fine. That would be great. Reply to the replica Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully but truly fully support your proposal. I think it would be real if journalists had this exposure that Mr. Professor Andrija Hebrang had on behalf of this club, passed on in all our presses or media, and I think it would be a really good answer for people to see what this government is introducing, doing this change and introducing these amendments and additions to this law. So I don't keep it either Spartan or absolutely any whip in my system but necessary and necessary to keep the system to the benefit of both the poorest and the poorest, the most endangered, I would say patients who need health care or health care the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41190	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41191	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! You will probably all agree that in view of the sustainability of today's scope of health care rights, a major and serious reform of health insurance is inevitable. The proposed amendments to the health insurance law no doubt, as the proponent himself says, are only an introduction to one such reform. In the beginning, it should be said that the existing Health Insurance Act together with all five additions to how many have failed so far as we expected to stabilise the health system. BUT it is not only Croatia’s problem. That is also the problem of the European Union. In March 2004, the heads of state and the governments of the then member states of the European Union made a presidential decision on the development strategy, and for the purpose of leaving that strategy, a number of targeted reform procedures are being carried out especially in the healthcare sector, for very prosaic reasons. The sector spends almost 10% of GDP, and 17 and a half million people were employed in the EU then and according to the World Health Organisation and the health system will not be fully stable while the annual increase in health prices is 10% and the increase in gross social product is 3 to 5%. The trends in health costs are constant. Chronic diseases, ageing populations, especially that population ageing concerns Croatia. When we divide the number of older than 60 years with the number of younger than 19 years, we get the age index. Statistics say the critical value of this index is 40%. The index in Croatia in 2001 is 90.7%. The development of new technologies, new medicines and so on are all the causes of the increase in health costs. This proposal does not affect the rights of insured persons in basic health insurance and their scope. The money's coming back into the system. Only administrative fees which are paid as a fixed fee at the places of receiving health care services and are not unknown in other European Union countries shall be introduced. We have heard several times that the legislator has provided for exceptions, and who will not pay all these fees? The expenditure also affected and created a burden on basic insurance, as supplementary insurance is carried out within the Office. Positive financial developments in hospital operations and the reduction in debt of healthcare were not followed in primary protection, so the cost of prescription medicines exceeded 3 billion kuna in 2004 and of which the state participates in paying the total costs of medicines on average about 80% compared to Slovenia where it is 60% or Poland where it is 37%. Taking into account the fact that the item for medicines that are growing at 10% per year in Europe according to projections, and in us, just to remind us, from 2002 to 2003, grew at a rate above 30%. No one should be left without the necessary medicine, no patients, no pharmacy, no hospital, but there is a further impact of the Ministry towards manufacturers and traders who should reduce the abundance of profits because they are at the very top of Croatia. I'm saying this for another reason, because according to sources from the World Health Organization, the increase in drug consumption has no impact on the reduction of the morbidity and mortality curve because, according to some estimates, even about 40% of recipes go into baskets. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law specifies the conditions under which insured persons are entitled to compensation for the costs of transport and savings would amount to, so that money is said to return to the circus system somewhere around 510 million kuna. By supporting this bill, I would like to say that he, as one of the smaller measures, will temporarily stabilise the system or allow the current system not to be paralyzed. I want the legislator to also arrange its consistent application in practice and control mechanisms to prevent abuse on account of all healthcare users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41192	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Jurkin's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41193	I come to you from the primary health care clinic where I look at about 50 patients daily, I write instructions and recipes, often times and Sumamed for the flu as Professor Hebrang says, but only when it comes to complications, but that's life, too. And now after that little routine, I've been in this House for five days, and I have to use this pay phone to thank you for your pleasant reception, and at the same time I have to say that I feel called to be able to speak primary health care because when I get out of this House, I'm going to be working again in medical general medicine and I'm going to implement this Health Insurance Act. My office says "Health isn't everything but without health, everything's nothing," and so patients come in, and in my infirmary they go in about 7,000 times a year. During that time, I write you 14 200 recipes a year, I write 4870 instructions on average. And now the total amount of money for the drugs I can spend in my infirmary is a million and 392 thousand kuna, and I have to say, that's never enough for me. The cost of medication for patients aged 7 to 35, they spend 130 kunas a year and people over 65 years of life spend 1141 kuna. And now, I wonder why I'm saying it. My thesis is unlike the... philosopher Tales who presented the first thesis six centuries before Christ, then he actually made a mistake there and I go further than him and I claim that the number of examinations only administratively in my infirmary will fall, because it is far easier to write down a review cartoon than to take 10 kuna from the patient. There will be no more activities of general medicine recorded 20 million views a year, although it will actually be so much but that participation will reduce the huge amount of medicine I have to say in home deposits because I see it every day in my infirmary. The patient often says please write me another prescription that I have just in case. When a patient starts participating in prescription costs, the number of prescriptions will fall to total regulation, if that happens only in my infirmary 10%, and that's the reality, and if you've followed my spending, then you'll see that only my infirmary will save 100 thousand kunas a year and when it's multiplied by the number of doctors who work in primary health care savings is huge and I unfortunately have to publicly say it. Although I'm not a supporter of short-term programs that establish what's called the so-called short-term program. Social peace, and not enough for serious stabilisation, I think in this situation this administrative tax is effective. Unfortunately, we can't wait for health care funds that this community doesn't have, and only the increase in funds isn't enough because society can't give so much money that we can spend and in this we're not in the world of exception. However, Croatian citizens have health care based on equal right for basic health insurance, and I think with a high degree of solidarity. The way of funding is with us such that 85% of the resources, from income, from the contribution from employees' salaries is used for health care, then from the contribution to the salary, then on the salary from the employer, and one part goes through the transfer from the state or county budget, for a particular category of insurance companies unfortunately all this is not enough. And now we're constantly in some conflict between needs, demands and possibilities. The problem between limited sources and existing needs can only be solved by increasing the source or rational use of existing sources, but we must understand that as health care is at a higher level, these requirements are greater. At the same time, we need to know that everything that is progressive in medicine is being resisted, and so is this, and that is why I am extremely pleased that you have had such a long discussion. It's my hypothesis, and the hypothesis is the scientific method, the science of the ultimate lack, that we have well defined the goal, and that we will not reduce the right to health care to citizens. We don't care about the use of high-tech technology and the lack of any professional self-regulation. And now let's get down on the ground. What do you expect from us doctors? And there's a lot of us. It's not too much. Maybe I'm a little too much now. What are we offering you? We offer you the following. Direct view i.e. eye contact means we won't keep looking at the papers and computers. We offer you a partnership, i.e. to give our opinion but to accept your opinion at the same time. And that we'll have plenty of time for you and probably colleagues agree with that, not to do any parallel jobs. But modesty today is not a virtue. And if you're going to see a person like that in me, this administrative fee won't be difficult for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41194	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ruža Lelic. She's gone. Mr. Neven Ljubicic is now the final minister of health and social care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41195	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! In the end, I would like to thank you for this fruitful debate today, I sincerely hope that you will fully support this bill that is before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41196	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41197	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have the conditions to vote on what we have absorbed today. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41198	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club and according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 238a. Please vote by raising your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41199	Okay. Minister, please be clear about the amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendments to Article 3 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41201	Thank you. Article 5 second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41202	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41203	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41204	Article 6 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41205	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41206	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41207	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41208	It's also acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41209	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the bill. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 71 votes for and 13 against the passed law with the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41210	Now we move on to the announced by the President of the Parliament a package of five laws that we will discuss together, so together. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 322 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 334 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 337 - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 328 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 323 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Therefore, this is one clear thing to say is the technical amendment of the law for the reason that the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community of Croatia has assumed the obligation to bring tax exemptions assessed by the European Commission as fiscal state aid which is incompatible with the single market and which do not comply with the legal gains of the European Community for State aid and, at this point, the Law on Support for Harmonisation with the European Commission in this law is practically all in line. However, in order to get the green light from the European Commission to refer this law to the Croatian Government and later to the adoption of the Croatian Parliament, we still need to make these amendments to the Law on Profit Tax. So, as regards lex specialis of the law, the Law on areas of special state care, the Law on Free Zones, the Law on Hill-Mountain Areas, the Law on Free Zones, nothing is changed by the provisions of that law, which were provisions in the Law on Tax on Profit, are transposed only into lex specialis laws, and I ask the Croatian Parliament to give support to this amendment to the Tax on Profits Act for the simple reason that we could refer the Support Act to this House as soon as possible, because I think it is one of the most important laws that we have to pass. Because remember yesterday's debate on the budget, on the different concepts of subsidies and support given from the state budget, and also that the Competition Protection Agency can fully assume this role so that it could come to a situation that, before the budget is adopted, no support and subsidy could be included in the budget before the Competition Protection Agency passes. In this way, we will come to far more transparent spending. And what is also important these laws will be able to develop so that they are not linearly released but funded, they encourage individual projects. First of all, I mean areas of special state care, the Law on the City of Vukovar and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. Therefore, I ask you to adopt this proposed technical amendment to the Profit Tax Act and actually discuss it and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41212	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41213	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! Really in two minutes. I don't think these laws are controversial. As the minister says, it is about some technical harmonisation, meaning some alignment with European gains. Nothing changes, and maybe that's why you shouldn't have raped the agenda yesterday at the beginning of this week's session. We shouldn't have counted. Yes, on the other hand, that rape showed the urbius et orbi that the ruling majority had a firm majority. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But now I'm interested in when we talk about this set of laws, first of all, this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. I would like to say that this is a good law, that it is a perspective law, that it is a development law that helps local self-government units and that such a law should remain in force as surely should remain in force and the Free Zones Act and the City of Vukovar Act, etc. We now see that the European Union is imposing something here, but I said the law must remain in force because without it the collapse would be experienced by the entire mountain cotter, that mountainous mountainous interior of Istria, and I want to believe that the ministry will not question it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41214	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41215	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! Contrary to everything my predecessor said. I am absolutely against this law. I'll tell you why. The argument for this Act is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. Article 70 thereof. So please be patient enough to read what article 70 is actually called on. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to make it clear to you whether or not we should have a law like this right now. Therefore, Article 70. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements, paragraphs (a), (b) and (b) are the reasons why the HSP still requested a referendum on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2001 because these are articles that force Croatia to bring its development strategy into line with the European Commission's demands in time until Croatia is still a member of the European Union, nor does it receive adequate funding. In particular, in order to apply the provisions of paragraph 1, therefore, compliance with the technical regulations of the Community and the like, the Parties will accept that, for the first four years following the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, any State aid granted by Croatia will be assessed taking into account that Croatia is considered an area which is identical to the areas of the Community described in Article 87, paragraph 3 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. So, that Croatia is considered an undeveloped area. And point b. of that Article 70, which is called upon by the applicant to say that within three years of the entry into force of this Agreement, Croatia will provide the European Community with its amounts, gross domestic product per capita, in order to comply with what is in the European Union and then the body referred to in paragraph 4 with one separate body, in this case the competition agency and the Commission of the European Communities will assess the similarity of the Croatian regions and will therefore determine the maximum amount of support in order to draw up a regional support map based on relevant Community guidelines. So that's all this says about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement says that Croatia is bound within three years of the entry into force of the Agreement, which is until 1 February 2008, so until 1 February 2008, it is three years from its entry into force, because it entered into force on 1 February of this year, Croatia is obliged to inform the Union by 1 February 2008 of its gross social product per capital in the regions, the statistical development regions which we do not yet have, in order to assess them, in order to make the Union a support map based on that, which Croatia must then accept. But ladies and gentlemen, we don't have any of that. Neither do we have statistical development regions, nor has the Union assessed it, nor have we conducted talks with the Union, nor has there been one reason in Article 70(7)(a) and (b) that we have to now abolish the provisions of the Law on Profit Tax and of all the laws which are called here, therefore, the Law on Hill and Mountain Areas, the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on the City of Vukovar, etc.. There is no need for us to do this now, because for this we have up to three years from the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, if we do all that we have said before, no, that we will do some regions, that we will deliver these regions to the Union, that a debate will be held with the European Union on the support map, and then after that we will suspend the application of these articles of the Law and start with a new system of support consistent with the interests of the European Union. Practically, the European Union is asking us to be independent of our economic interests while we are not yet a member of it, to listen to its ideas and desires about how we should develop our regions, that is what this is about. Therefore, all we are asking here is that this Law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal and applies from 1 February 2008, so three years after the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Now, with that amendment, we will accept this law, otherwise we will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41216	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC, LS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41217	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to remind you, to remember, in fact, that we've talked about these statistical regions even inside the former ruling coalition. And where, in some ways, it was imposed as one of the obligations to actually create a new regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia. But other than those... The talks did not go much further, obviously this political assessment was overcome because Croatia can have two regions or five regions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What certain parameters offered by the European Union's positive legislation have offered us. And I'm saying, unfortunately, it didn't go any further, but it's not a job that you can postpone, which if she's a government, she didn't have maybe political courage or she thought it wasn't that important, she's going to stay with this or some future government to solve this problem, anyway. And I think that regionalisation or perhaps better to say decentralisation of Croatia is something that is waiting for us and perhaps it would be good to do so within this Parliament as soon as possible, sooner. We think that this new circle, decentralisation, is necessary and where one of those solutions might help to develop Croatia more evenly, is now a chance. Otherwise, if we do not, we will continue to meet with this type of law that speaks about areas of special state concern, which talks about the city of Vukovar, which speaks about mountainous and mountainous areas where we will certainly talk with a lot of emotions with lots of passions, most often irrationally with a lot of noble desires but unfortunately real results for those areas that are gaining historical difficulties did not develop in the way they would, as they deserve it and we would have to sort of correct it. And actually yesterday's same debate and about the Croatian budget is actually always a debate on that, that actually the budget would be in the function of exactly one even development of the Republic of Croatia, where then these economic parameters are of great importance for one political stability. If this is left out, if we really don't have a feeling that there are also spaces that don't develop evenly in Croatia and if they are underestimated, if there is no regulatory function of the Government of the Republic of Croatia then we can have a whole series of negative political movements, certain political movements, certain political solutions that we have both witnessed these and the last few months that have just shown that one indifference and one ignoring of this very important problem can cause a whole series of negative political implications. I hope that this will not happen, that the Government will have a hearing, that we will indeed accept these instructions from the European Union but not as something that must be done because of what one of us is asking but above all because it is in our interest. I say, I'm just coming, the city of Osijek is and, or... Eastern Croatia is a space that was devastated during the Homeland War, a space that could not be developed by 15 January 1998 because there was neither a state of peace nor a war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That peaceful reintegration process came in. The process could not be expected to be solved on 16 January 1998. It really took a very long time to catch a certain rhythm, a life rhythm that corresponds to some, some parameters of normal, normal life, but I think that really the Government of the Republic of Croatia must have exactly what I just said earlier to be a government that will just have a sensitivity to these problems that occurred in these areas in the early 1990s and that they will, with their solutions, with a tax policy, with certain subsidies, with a certain one inauguration of the principle of solidarity as fundamental actually one principle of this time in which we live, will just manage to balance these illogicalities, these differences that occur between those areas that have been so fortunate that they have developed yet differently in a completely different environment than those of the places we normally call spaces of special national concern that were almost one-third and that there are really some cities such as some cities as the city of Vukovar in 1991. I am just hoping that this Parliament will actually give the necessary incentive to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, create this ambience that will just enable, allow these spaces to catch up, catch a rhythm. It can't happen, it just has to happen from itself. It's just that there's got to be this particular selective policy. A policy that will indeed make sure that Croatia has to develop politically and that this one even development of the Republic of Croatia is also important for political stability, stability within the Republic of Croatia because I say everyone, every neglect and ignoring and fact that is even more than, and more than evident that certain spaces have not developed how they had to develop can cause these political processes which, these very days, certainly have implications and inputs... Parliament's majority and I can bring in a whole series of unwanted processes that I don't think any of us right now is, at least, in the interest of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is in this sense that this club will also give, give the necessary support to the government's or the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia's efforts, the Ministry of Finance to really find those solutions that will enable a balanced, balanced development, balanced development, and that will bring back to a rich end a rise and where these negative political, political and political movements will be spared, which are actually nothing more than simply selling, selling political fog and, in fact, in some way, a distraction, a distraction where the problems of regionalism and the problems of precisely this political development, early development are used for other purposes. In the hope that this government or minister has heard of what we are talking about, we hope that this particular selective approach will then be the principle of solidarity and certain, certain interventions on profit tax precisely affect that indeed they are evenly distributed and not only evenly but even more in those areas that did not deserve it by their own fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41218	Thank you very much. HDZ Club, the respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41219	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. On the one hand, it was particularly nervous to determine such a large agenda of as much as 5 laws, and on the other hand, it seems to me that this is the easiest for me, the easiest package of laws this week and perhaps this session, because it's purely my opinion, in our opinion of the technical issue. The current Law on Profit Tax and Articles 21 to 24 regulate the release and relief in areas of special care, mountain-mounted, free zones and the city of Vukovar. The technical question here is that all the provisions are based on the European Commission's position and that of Article 70, it seems to me that the SAA and, as a necessity, only allocate from this Act to these other four laws. So in these laws nothing is changed and all the provisions on the release and relief that follow, which are actually contained in the existing Profit Tax Act, remain for those who carry out their activities in those areas. So there's nothing controversial about us here, and that's why this is an explanation for all five laws, and we believe that this may be the easiest explanation and easiest acceptance of possible views, but so is adoption at this session. So the HDZ Club has absolutely no need to clarify further. We support that, and we think there's nothing controversial about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41220	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41221	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I personally support these technical amendments to the law. There is indeed nothing in dispute except one moment that I will look back on. In particular, I would like to say a few words about the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar which, among other things, provides for the extension of the time limits for the exemption of the tax on profits which I consider to be a good thing which may also show that the existing Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar adopted in May 2001 has not fully delivered its results. About Vukovar and the situation in Vukovar I agree that we should talk without passion or emotion because of that people living in Vukovar really can't live. We ourselves know what Vukovar gave for Croatia and should be paid back in the only possible right way, which is to ensure his citizens a normal and dignified life. Because the current situation in Vukovar is not good. It is an old town, everyone will say the city of pensioners with huge unemployment and people who work primarily in services in state institutions and often are employees who come to Vukovar from other surrounding cities and even the county. It is certain that a broader debate is needed in this Croatian Assembly. What the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar provides once a year that the Government is obliged to deliver such a report to the Croatian Parliament and I believe that it will come to the agenda where we will again appeal about everything, all the problems that exist talk calmly, rationally, easily. So maybe just a few words when we already have this chance to talk about why the situation in Vukovar is like that, I might extend it. Everyone will agree at least to the citizens of Vukovar and Slavonia, and this is recently popular with the new movements that are born, that it is all Zagreb's fault, or central government. The central government and the legislative special enforcement should indeed create assumptions for economic activities and for the development of this part of Croatia, and surely that there is responsibility in that part and if not all the legal frameworks already exist, then the Assembly should adopt them, and the Executive Authority is to implement them and to control them. But I'd add another segment of responsibility, and that's local government. Often, people at local levels prevent investors and entrepreneurs from coming to the area to open new jobs, and there are not only in the city of Vukovar until today, and I hope that this will change in all of Croatia, but in all of Croatia, two concepts of politics and behaviour of government and at that local level, and that is one understanding that goes to create new jobs, for greater economic activity, wanting to provide citizens with a better life and there is that other type of behavior that wants a general wasteland, because in that general wasteland then and power seems larger, then such people can easily manipulate the fates of people, among others, and decide whose son or daughter will be employed by some city or state firm. Some of the questions that have been raised in the city of Vukovar these past months about this issue of responsibility that we have never received, and I believe that in this broad discussion we will be given the question of what is the Fund for the Reconstruction of the City of Vukovar, which is provided for in this Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, of the accusations that financial resources have been misused for certain purposes, which then the head of man after these accusations of the Fund and removed, and we have never received complete information about what really happened. I believe she'll follow. Or, for example, the question of VUPIK, a large agricultural combination, one of the most successful companies by the 1990s means in a former state which the former government has recovered from Croatian taxpayers' money, made painful reforms and reduced the number of employees in order to reduce the number of employees by about 60, 70, 80 overnight in this same VUPIK without any need for local leaders, these local sheriffs boasted that they had reduced the number of employees by about 60% in their municipalities. It is simply irresponsible behaviour not only for this company but also for employees in it, but generally for the whole area. Or some parties who have invited citizens to report to their headquarters because they will provide them with a job seem to me to the newly formed mobile operators. And move on. State officials who hire their relatives, friends, etc. There is responsibility not only for them but also for the central authorities and the silent executives, who are not taking the necessary steps. But to cross over, there's still a lot to talk about, but I'm waiting for that real debate about the situation in the city of Vukovar where we can discuss all aspects. And I'd say something concrete about this law that really isn't controversial, but there's something that's a little bit distracting me because I don't know what the proposing's been up to, whether it's a mistake or if there's really some special other intention. It is possible that government members of this law, which consists of some 70 words including the allies, have not seen what is not surprising again, as they did not see amendments to the budget rebalancing yesterday. That is how Article 1 will become Article 30a. I would ask you to follow me immediately, it is said: "That taxpayers who carry out their activity in the city of Vukovar and employ more than five employees in a working relationship to an indefinite period of time where more than 50 employees have a residence and residence in the city of Vukovar" and then three or four new words were inserted which I consider not to be their place here because this is a special Law on the restoration and development of the city of Vukovar, and it is said: "or the mountainous and mountainous area or the area of special state care were freed" etc. etc. Now I don't know if those who wrote the law know where Vukovar is, because I'm from Vukovar, so I never had the impression that it was...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41222	Please conclude your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41223	.....and play well, play. I believe it does not belong to the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar because there is no mention of mountainous and mountainous areas or areas of special state concern in this special law. So those four words are too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41224	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41225	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, this little representative Pančić said does not really stand and it is nice to live in Zagreb and take care of Vukovar. As far as investors are concerned, local authorities are making a lot of efforts to really attract investors, and it has already achieved that in part. So it's not true what Mr. Representative said. These days will be over by the end of the year and the economic zone will be over. As for the fund itself, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance regularly give the fund as much as agreed, however, no kuna fund is missing, it was Mr Pancicu, your election campaign. In VUPIK you had a supervisory board you had a VUPIK you had a 50 million debt, a new supervisory board for a year and a half got a VUPIK 7 million. Therefore, those who have secured the job and sought to take care of the Vukovars make sure they are employed, they have received 12 mandates from Mr Pancic, you have only received three mandates, and this one has been given from the SDSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41226	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Loncar rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41227	Mr. President, my dear and lovable colleague Pancic has said a few inaccuracies, but I'm just going to look back on what's going on with VUPIK. So you fellow Pancic as a born Vukovar should know something about... from your town. It is not true that he was the most successful by the 1990s, he never did positive business, regardless of how the structure of the government was such that he always sold his products to the people's militia and the people's army. They always received money for wheat from the primary show from 81 to 90, and while the party peasant coalition was in power, you know it only at the time that five times more money was put into the rescue of the soowosh than its core capital, here's the truth, so maybe this will come in handy with what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41228	Thank you. Minister Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41229	Well, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As it is true that the members of the government saw amendments yesterday, it is true that in the Tax on Profits Act adopted last year and which has been in force since 1 January 2005 are the exact same provision as it was prescribed here, so I will quote, Article 22. Profit tax law: "tax bonds carrying out activities in the city of Vukovar and employ more than 5 employees, in a working relationship to an indefinite period where more than 50% of employees have residence and residence in the area of the city of Vukovar or mountainous area or areas of special state care". So, the exact same text in the Law on Profit Tax as it was, so it is transmitted here, nothing has been changed but probably the legislator's intensity was that if employment is found in the area of the city of Vukovar, someone in the mountainous and mountainous areas, or in the area of special care that is considered to be considered since all these laws were in principle passed with the same intensity, which is that economic activity develops there and that unemployment is reduced so it was such a proposal, but I just repeat, since in the opening statement I said that nothing in these laws and it is not new but only that the provisions of the Tax on Profits is being moved and converted, in fact, they are entering into the leg of specialis law, so I just wanted to explain that it was written in the Law on profit tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41230	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, he has no right to speak. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go. He's giving up. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41231	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What to say in the short lines about the Vukovar Act, every law is welcome that promotes the economic spirit of the Vukovar law is applied to a full extent, and its aim will be to create conditions for the employment of returnees, young people who have returned to their homes, to their city of Vukovar from persecution. In fact, we also include young families who live in Vukovar and live precisely because they come to live because of encouraging measures. The purpose of the Law to stimulate investment in Vukovar is to establish criteria, provided that it is real investment, investment by foreign or domestic entrepreneurs. However, additional control or mechanism is required either with the basis of the local administration or the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration. To prevent the abuse of the law. A tendency to establish companies that meet the set criteria of the law has been observed and the constitution transfers its business invoices from earlier existing companies to newly established companies, thus avoiding paying the profit tax. It is therefore necessary to establish a mechanism and instruments of control in order not to undermine the basic objective of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41232	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41233	I'd be happy to have the Law on.../The speaker shut down./... Well, gentlemen, sometimes the truth can hurt, but that's no reason to turn off my microphone. So I would be happy if the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar were applied to a full extent, but unfortunately that is not true it is not applied, it is being misused and I did not hear Mr. Mlinarić, which is why you then replaced your member of the Fund for Reconstruction and Development if it was all clean.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41234	Thank you. Dear MP Milanka Opačić, she has no right to lose her word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. He's giving up, thank you very much. Dear Representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is more like a question to Mr. Minister because it depends on the vote. In the light of the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Profit Taxation, what the articles are deleted and then said below, the erasure of Article 3(3) of Article 39 is proposed because the new law which entered into force on 1 January 2005 was intended to introduce equal treatment in taxing dividends to persons, legal persons, domestic and foreign persons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am now interested in whether this means that foreign-owned banks either Deutsche Telekom or the Austrian Mobile Fund are paying taxes to the state at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41236	Thank you very much. And the final review of Minister Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the distinguished representative asked the question normally that both Zagrebačka banka and Privredna and all others owned by foreign banks pay Croatia's profit tax. By amending the Tax on Profits Act, we abolished the tax after deduction, and the other thing, what I was saying when a tax on profit was proposed, when it was said that the tax on dividends would be abolished by abolishing the obligation to pay the tax on dividends by avoiding double taxation. Already, all these taxpayers did not pay dividend tax in the Republic of Croatia because they were bonds to pay in their home country, and some companies they do not have, their countries do not have a signed double taxation agreement established by companies in Austria and in some other countries that had a double taxation agreement with the Republic of Croatia just to avoid it. So nothing changes that law, all these companies continue to pay profit tax in the Republic of Croatia and the dividend tax has been abolished and I have to say that this year's profit tax revenue is 40% higher in the first six months than it was in the same period last year. So profit tax they pay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41238	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We now have a vote, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. There's an amendment to the HSP's Club of Representatives. Please keep an eye on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41240	The government does not accept amendments to the HSP's Club of Representatives. It is also explained with Mr Tadic who speaks on behalf of the HSP Club who has not seen that, with this amendment to the Tax on Profit goes to amend these four laws, in fact, the provisions that enter into... The law so that practically government can't accept it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41241	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41242	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-13-0.u41243	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. I'm voting on the bill. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 87 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed law has been passed along with, well. Okay. We are going to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 324 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Agriculture and Forestry, Local and Regional Self-Government. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. Minister, Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobanković, please provide an additional explanation of the bill.
