ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37764	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me briefly present the draft law supplementing the Law on Croatian Television. It is, in fact, small interventions in this law, but in my opinion, they could primarily affect the social situation of some of our regions, as well as some of our population. This law enters into Article 53 of the article on HRT fees. This topic is therefore increasingly taking on the social and political dimension as well. That's what we witnessed yesterday, so when it was a discussion about VAT, that's what happened. on SDP's proposal to abolish VAT payments to HRT fees and we can also remember the last parliamentary elections when HRT tax was also the subject of some parties and their pre-election promises. But what's the current situation? Therefore, Article 53 of the Law defines that the owners of radio and television receivers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to pay the HRT fee and that this fee is 1.5% of the average net monthly salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of statistics for the previous year. I've mentioned before that this law of mine may have a social and regional dimension. So why social security? That is why we are trying to use this proposal to make some parts, so I said already, of Croatia and some parts of our population pay a smaller HRT fee and in our opinion, and this could be achieved in the simplest way possible without much more complicated, and so that the article 53th is changed. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The amount of tax is 1.5% of the average net monthly salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia calculated by county and City of Zagreb based on statistics for the previous year. So, in our opinion, this is the simplest solution for us to go in some way into socializing HRT fees. We won't start here now, I hope at least, a debate about the very essence of the charge and character of the HRT fee. So, I said this law has a social dimension, so here's the data that tells us that the average salary in 2004 was 4 thousand kuna in all of Croatia, so that the union basket was 5 thousand 259 kuna. So, with the average salary, we can't cover the costs of a union basket. Also, in that union basket, the item of education and culture which would include this HRT fee would therefore contribute to 720 kuna so that the reduction of HRT fees by some counties would at least contribute to the level of costs for that union basket. What I think should, therefore, be specifically warned and what gives us a more drastic picture of the situation on the ground is data from our counties, so this is the regional dimension, especially as regards my Međimurje County and the party of the Međimurje Democratic Union, which has also supported this law. So, the data tells us about the ninth month of last year, the ninth month of 2004, that's the freshest we've been able to get. So that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was somewhere right now, so we have already said about 4 thousand kuna but unfortunately there are great deviations on average wages per county. Of the least average salary in Croatia, which is unfortunately right in the County of Međimurje of 3 thousand kuna, so almost 30% is lower than at the republican level and up to the salary of 4.5 thousand kuna in the City of Zagreb, which is therefore 50% higher than the salary in Međimurje County. I think that these data should in some way be encrypted by both this and similar laws, and that this should therefore be seen in such a way that people pay a different amount of subscription. Last year's subscription was, the HRT subscription before the increase of this year 63 kuna was 59 kuna. The County of Međimurje would have 45 kuna, for example, for Krapina-Zagorska would have 48 kuna, for Zagreb 53 kuna, for Brod-Posavina 51 kuna, for Lika-Senjska 52 kuna, etc. So, in all counties, there would be a reduction except in the City of Zagreb where the tv tax would therefore rise to 67 kuna and since there is therefore the largest and average salary in the Republic of Croatia, I don't think that the citizens would actually register that much. So that was the main reason for this bill. The government's opinion is negative. However, what I would like to warn is that the Government is of the opinion that this is not about the tax, that it is not about the tax, but that it is about the compensation for the service done, even if the law requires that the fee be paid by the owners of radio and television receivers in paragraph 1. A clear legal relationship shall also be established between the owner, the recipient who stands out, meaning the owner of the receiver is obliged to report the receiver to HRT and the recipient owner is not obliged to pay the fee if the recipient therefore logs out. But that's a different story. What I would like to mention, point out and warn, in fact, of what I have already warned my parliamentary questions, here is my colleague, Lesar, who has been activated in this direction. So, the government is talking about compensation for the service done. But unfortunately, in Croatia, we have numerous households, so it is primarily along the Slovenian-Croatian border that cannot follow the HRT program at all, and we simply haven't found any solution for now despite the fact that we have contacted both the Ministry of Transport and Croatian TV and transmitters and connections. The transmitters and connections as far as I can see have no intention of intervening in any way to change that state. And just to read what's on their website. Here, transmitters and connections. With their business, transmitters and connections must ensure the performance of functions and tasks which are by way of a legal regulation with the highest level of satisfaction of users, business partners, employees and all stakeholders. So for now, they haven't fully done their job. As a result, we have judicial warnings for these people who will not actually pay for what they cannot use here, and so what they are getting are warnings before a court order. I think here's what I'm asking from this pay phone to get this case resolved as soon as possible. Here, not to prolong the situation is clear, therefore. With this law, we propose a fairer way of deploying our citizens' obligations. So we're talking about tax and every tax system, we heard it yesterday, it has to be based on equality and justice. The equality is that everyone pays. So we do not lift the HRT tax but justice therefore to take into account the social situation, i.e. The average net salary per specific county. It's not a big step. This step does not require any funding from the budget, this step will in no way damage or reduce the revenues of Croatian Radio Television, perhaps even the opposite, I think it is only the goodwill of all of us here in the Parliament to make it easier for someone to have his social situation. Thank you very much. Well, here, we'll get involved later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37765	Thank you very much, Proposer. Now first, let's ask if the Committee's rapporteurs will then? Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? Yeah. Thank you. President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37766	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio Television at the 35th session held on 20 May 2005. In the debate, the Committee supported the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the fee under the Law on Croatian Radio Television is required to pay workers of radio and television receivers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, resulting in the obligation to pay it in equal amounts. The debate also expressed the view that the eligibility of payment of the fee of those notifiers who for technical reasons are not allowed to receive the programme should be reconsidered. After the debate, the Committee proposed most of the votes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the bill, 3 votes supported the Law and 4 votes were against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37767	Thank you very much. Now he has a word from the government representative, State Secretary Mr. Jadran Antolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The government opposes the proposal for a law on Croatian radio television and for reasons which were presented in the opinion but precisely by reason, the... to propose this law and that is to take the tax as a tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, you know very well that taxes and revenue of a budget that is not intended and which is paid into the budget are always. The tax here is paid to Croatian radio television as a public service and cannot be taxed at all. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The law says that households that have multiple television receivers pay for only one. This suggests that this fee is usually compensation for a public service service service provided by Croatian Radio Television. And in order to be fair on the principle that all citizens, i.e. the owners of television and radio receivers, pay the same amount, for this reason we oppose this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37769	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mrs. Jagoda Maja Martincevic who is not present. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of fellow Members and fellow MPs. And on behalf of the HSS, I will say a few words about this bill proposal, about the additions of the Law on Croatian Radio Television. Our colleague Pavlica's initiative is commendable for trying in a way more justly to distribute TV obligations that are paid to Croatian radio television, which we must admit is not so insignificant to many people in the Croatian state. For example, pensioners who certainly have far lower incomes than the average net wages in the Republic of Croatia, and mostly the unemployed and those who do not receive any funds for their work. The question is, should we go further, should we discuss how this burden should be distributed more justly in view of the various types of property that Croatian citizens have. Is the net salary the only criterion to measure the material status of a citizen or is there another criterion that could significantly distribute a different burden of charges on TV... which is in the opinion of Mr. Pavlica is paid tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all of these are open questions that we have to try to find an answer to. In fact, we remember when that fee was in absolute amount and it hit all citizens exactly the same. Now it is not in the same amount but in the amount of employees of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is just or not I leave everyone to think. It seems to me that it is not a fair approach, because as I said, the difference is when a pensioner must set aside 63, or 59 kuna for subscription or tax in Croatian radio television or one citizen owns millions and millions of kuna. How has this been solved in other countries in what way? I think that this subscription is arranged everywhere so that all citizens pay it, but we have to try to find a way to relieve those who are economically, socially most sensitive compared to those who have more. Something that makes me unable to raise my hand, or we in the HSS vote this bill, is its final uncertainty, because we do not have the exact calculation of how much this law would actually raise. Is it enough to say that in Zagreb County, given in Zagreb, in fact where the average net salary is far higher than for example? in Međimurje, therefore, where Mr Pavlic comes, where he is far smaller, whether these funds will be greater in total or less. This is very important for us to be determined according to this bill. And that's why I think it had to be calculated more precisely how much these funds would have been collected. I say, all these are the reasons why we welcome, welcome this initiative, we think it's necessary. I'd even keep going and I'd say that maybe we should also think about paying a television fee in relation to the individual receipts of each citizen. In that case, it seems to me that one who has no income should have no obligation to pay a television subscription. Unlike those who have far more, they would pay more taxes and so on. tax on the possession of receivers. I am also, as well, not to repeat all those stories since yesterday, also to worry about why we do not define exactly what is the Croatian Radio Television Tax? Is this an interpretation of what Mr. Pavlic represents and what we have accepted, or is that the opinion of the Government that re-interprets a different fee in some way as meaning a fee for the service provided by Croatian radiotelevision to all our citizens? Then the question is, of course, what about those who can't get that favor? There are those who cannot use Croatian broadcasting services, and they are also required to pay the subscription. Is that tax? Is this a tax that is in some way an interpretation of the government and a obligation to pay VAT? These are all issues that we need to resolve in order to have a stable and clean situation so that Croatian broadcasting as a public service can plan our business and our future neatly and we also have to tell citizens what their obligation is to service the public media, the electronic media of Croatia, Croatian Radio Television? So this uncertainty is, in fact, an equality that is mostly a criterion for paying all fees? The only criteria? Or is justice embedded in all documents of the social and legal states another criterion by which it can and other means interpreting the obligation to pay for a particular service in the light of the own receipts or material status that users have? I am in favor of combining these two systems because it seems to me that we are a society in which it is very important to rationalise on, for every kuna that fellow Pavlic said about a basket that is far above the average of our incomes. About a million pensioners and 400 or a few, close to 400 thousand unemployed who don't receive any income on that basis. Do we have the right and obligation to expect them to pay an average above, which is far above their personal incomes? So these are all the dilemmas that make it seem like we shouldn't be quick to pass laws and maybe adapt them to one of the intersteps that the Proposer actually proposes. Either stay on the existing system or look for new solutions that will solve this problem more justly and better? We in the HSS will therefore be reserved according to this proposal but we are not satisfied with the existing solution either. I expect that there will come an even better prepared and better-designed bill that will then receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37771	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37772	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we will support this bill for three reasons. Firstly, this proposal is not directed against Croatian broadcasting in a financial sense because the revenue side of this model would not be reduced by applying this model. So the financial interest of a public institution, the public service is not touched and their business plans are not disrupted in this or next year. The second reason this proposal is from the point of view of citizens who pay taxes, taxes, subscription or I don't know what it's called is more socially just. This topic has also been a politicised and political issue from the social aspect and has been warned for years that part of the population whose income and incomes are at the limit of endurance and the cost of paying a tax or subscription has a more significant impact on their family, home budget. Since the cost of living and income in Croatia are not on average in every Croatian region, and I remind you again that for a few years, Međimurje has had an average salary below the national average of 30%. That from the point of view of social justice when the legislator had already taken the salary as the basis for calculating some obligation for the population. So the average salary was taken. Then it is socially acceptable that the average salary should not be on the state level but on the regional level. Because I guess the average salary is a reflection of one side and the economic power to receive incomes in the family or singles and the cost of living. So only the logic that the state legislator once gave that the average salary is the basis for the calculation we apply to the regional... And so far, we have all said that Croatia is not the same in each of the Croatian regions by all segments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is one example where we're not all the same. And it's not the Zagreb 4 and a half thousand average salary or the Međimurje 3 grand. And there's no difference of 100 kuna. There's a difference of 1,500 kuna. It's not the same 4 and a half in Zagreb as the Sibenik 3 and a half or the Belarusian 3 thousand 200. Or a hive of three thousand 200. These are the differences that amount to as much as someone's salary at this point that work all month for that salary. So that's one reason. And the final reason is the opinion of the government given in writing has been repeated here today. Let's just accept him for a moment that this is about paying the favor. That's what it says here, and it's said that it's not taxes, it's not taxes, it's paying for favors. But then, by ignoring the company "Transmitters and Connections" to which this state and government, the Parliament has given the laws a monopoly on the imitation of a signal that acknowledges that there is no signal in the specific area that I have asked them, but large and other major parts of the Republic of Croatia which, for their service, gives a huge charge to public television without any interest as an authorised signal distributor, the signal emitter repairs in technical terms, and that all citizens, the owners of television receivers who have to pay for their service, must pay for whatever the signal is missing, and I therefore prove to you that "transmitters and connections" confirmed on 11 March this year that there are no signals and that they cannot be watched the Croatian radiotelevision programme, and you have to pay. What about it now? So then you gentlemen from the government will have to accept my bill that I released yesterday in the procedure that where there is no signal there is no service that we all have to pay at the same price so that you will have to pay the citizens of Croatia in a territory where there is no signal or is invisible, so bad that you cannot watch the program have to free the payment fee for the service provided by the public service, quote your opinion. So I'm asking by a trace of your opinion that the state's imposition be terminated for a service that citizens must pay for, and is not available to them. It's not available to them. I asked about the Mejimuri. They extended to me that this is a problem along the entire Slovenian border, especially in Croatia's Zagorje. Islands, islands. So what does that mean? I accept the government's position, the government's view that this is about paying the service, and please, if not this proposal from counterpart Pavlica, let's go to regional height, but where there is no service, no payment. And very simple and the bill was handed over yesterday in the procedure. I hope the government won't change its mind and say it's not paying for the service. And something else I found out this morning that didn't occur to me, and I got a call from the headmaster of a school. I have three TVs at school that we don't watch, but we present professional materials to children through VHS or DVDs. The television receiver serves me as a monitor and I have to pay a television fee. There's no antenna connection in the classroom, nothing. So, just a monitor, and now I guess I'm cheaper to buy monitors than a computer and use them and throw these new TVs, to avoid paying a television subscription or a fee, forgive me, and it's about a school funded by a state that doesn't have enough money. The kindergartens, high schools, and also scientific institutions are used in the same system. So, if it's a service, then please only where the service was used can something be charged. I want to believe that this social component, every month, ten, 50, 60 kuna, is not seen as a political theme for colleagues, but from a social point of view far more just, not to the end of justice because there are people with different incomes within each region, but more just than we have now. Let's finally acknowledge that by standard, income, income, cost of life and the payment opportunities of Croatian citizens, Croatia is not the same everywhere, and therefore I am surprised at the government's view that it cannot even accept this because it does not disturb the revenues of the public institution of Croatian broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37773	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of DC, HSLS and LS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37774	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to commend my fellow Paulica's intention on the principles of justice and sociality. He proposed these changes and supplements related to the television subscription. However, as he could see for himself this obvious proposal will not be able to go, it is difficult to implement it in practice, without touching deeper into the Law on Croatian Radio Television, the Department of Subscribe itself. Furthermore, our Club believes that this part is impossible to implement because although a colleague suggests that the salary is paid according to an average per county, where incomes are differentiated given the strength of individual counties, that those who are socially at risk will not get any more justice will not get any more social benefits. They will still have to pay, and those parts of Croatia that are not covered by a quality signal they do not have a picture. Our thinking goes in this direction that where there are such problems of uncoveredness that there is no need to pay a television subscription at all, and for those who are socially endangered really society, then the state should find some model so that these people are actually released from these charges. Any giving to anyone who doesn't has one is a big giving. So these are the two reasons why I think we won't be able to support this proposal, and otherwise the intentions are truly noble. There is one problem that we haven't cleared up today, and that's the problem that was at the debate yesterday and earlier discussions when it came to television, about Croatian broadcasting, but that's about the subscription. Whether it is a tax, whether it is a voluntary contribution or whether it is the price of an appropriate service. You see that everyone interprets it in their own way. I think you should really define that. If that's a tax, then he's unique at the level of the entire state. If it is a voluntary contribution, then it must be collected on the basis of volunteering, so that he who thinks he should give and how much he should give. If this is the price of an appropriate service then it has its market value, it has its own cost side. Therefore, if the state wants to help those who do not have money, it can have a benefit price for those who are socially at risk. For us is a bigger problem, it is not so much a problem that, which is not quality-defined, whether it is tax, giving or price service. For Croatian broadcasters, it is more important than how much his influence on the means he gives and why he actually gives them. If this is a give for the quality of the programme, if it is a giving for the relevant content, the social content is shown on Croatian television, then we are but where is my influence and how I can influence these funds. That's what people are really worried about the most about, and they're looking for that answer. Here, my colleague Lesar also mentioned one thing you should think about as well. Under the law, the latest Croatian Radio Television Act means a subscription must be paid. If you have a TV, you must if you do not want to pay your subscription, your TV will be sealed. However, I want to watch gentlemen RTL, I want to watch TV Nova, I want to watch my local TV, I want to watch the satellite program. Then what? Who's gonna come over and seal my TV and forbid me? So these are things that are not legally defined and which should be urgently defined, and I think that the government should deal with a proposal in which these ambiguities should be resolved, not that we, as parliamentary representatives, make it ourselves. We can give initiatives and this initiative by colleagues is truly commendable. And the end itself. Let's say you have the current e-media law. I believe that Article 56 states that there is a fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. In this fund, according to this fund, Croatian broadcasting should be allocated from the subscription to that part of the funds, it seems 3% of the subscription. You heard for the last time from Minister Biskupić that no funds were paid for 2003-2004, only for 2005, for the past five months,... It seems 7 million kuna to me, but these are the funds for the development of electronic media at a lower local level, but they can also be regionally involved in the competition for obtaining these funds to boost this pluralism of electronic media. [[You don't understand.]] Furthermore, in this fund, Croatian broadcasting does not allocate these funds, but small local media at 0.5% single out these funds and pay off those funds. So, we little ones can pay for it, the big Croatian radio television as far as I can see for this 2003, 2004 hasn't yet been on the bill. There's as much chance as we want to keep our subscription. I am that she remains, but she should be otherwise available and directed in some other way. Why shouldn't Croatian Radio Television report nicely to the competition, offer a program, who has a better program, who has better conditions for implementing this programme. ... Let him take those funds, and then I will believe and satisfy all Croatian citizens. [[You don't understand.]] That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37775	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37776	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. The HSP Club welcomes this initiative by a respected colleague, Pavlic, to open the debate and on these fees, namely, this is a very important thing, if only to consider that from somewhere in Croatia the annual revenues of the Croatian Radio Television amounting to a billion and 300 million kuna 850,000 kuna are collected from the fee. So this is not a small amount, it is visible that it is 2/3 of the total amount of Croatian radio television. I'm saying that because the tax, it was called tax, tax, tax, tax, but according to the current law, the tax has a legal character, a mandatory contractual relationship. So it's a mandatory contractual relationship and so a Croatian citizen has to pay for it if he doesn't pay for the fact that Mr. Lesa is saying that there are areas that are not covered, that they can't monitor the meaning of Croatian Radio Television programmes but he has to pay for it. He can't tell himself I won't pay for it, I'm unhappy with the shows, despite the fact that I have a contractual relationship with Croatian Radio Television, and this is all a contractual relationship. Your contractual relationship is when you enter a tram and buy a ticket, it's the same contractual relationship, so for this ride such as this contractual relationship in a broader sense all Croatian citizens who pay taxes are basically small shareholders. Now what are their rights? We've seen nothing. If someone does not decide to pay the fee, they will immediately jump into the Hazhenkovic-Radakovic lawyer's house and react. And they react very easily, first they send a warning and they have everything in the computer, then they go to the top and the Croatian Radio TV is paying them fat for these things and they could have 4.5 people who will do these jobs very easily hire new unemployed and not give all these law firms and we know that all the different contracts we made for highways are always the company that gives an opinion legally on the application of the contract and one percent of them are in their pocket. Here's this same situation as and in what way it's done in that part. Now that we're talking about this contractual, which is a contractual mandatory relationship, paying the fee that Croatian citizens expect. Croatian citizens expect Croatian broadcasting to be a public institution. So first of all, a public institution, not a commercial one, not a commercial one. Because we know ourselves from this fund, which was founded 3% should have gone to commercial television since 2003, as far as we can see it now, this year, the excuses are different, the fund was not founded and the money was coming. And now I am interested in the name of the HSP Club, which is now in it, we have seen different statements from the Croatian Television and Ministry Administration and would like here in the Croatian Parliament the right answer, whether Minister Biskupić, who said on the current morning what he said was not being handled or Croatian Radio Television. I think the public, here we are now fortunate that Croatian television is broadcasting this session and finally hearing from responsible representatives what it is. And now I'm going to say to one part of what we do not, we always point out the example of HINE and Croatian Radio which are objective media, objective media as public institutions whose purpose is to objectively inform Croatian citizens and so that they form their own opinions based on this objective information. And Croatian TV has been wandering again lately between that part of commercial and objective and in many things at the HSP Club about the last Latin, a large number of Croatian citizens called. And also others, and she's also trying to shape public opinion which is the worst that can happen. The public institution, in some situations even commercially does not deal with such situations as to form public opinion, it is only possible for those who will watch when campaigns are pre-election and paid, and then has the right to say what they want but in this part it is dangerous. Just remember that Croatia worked, Croatian television organised an open public trial for Mr. Anti Djapic before the local elections, which is unacceptable. Inadmissible because it had, it could have had direct influence on the election and it was part of it. So there are so many situations, and Croatian citizens who are, conditionally said shareholders, who are in a mandatory contract... Croatian Radio Television is wanted by Croatian Radio Television as well as by the HSP Club probably everyone that Croatian Radio Television requires Croatian Television as well as the HSP Club probably everyone that Croatian Television, Croatian Television is decided first of all whether it will be public or commercial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it will be public then it has the right to those charges with the aim of ensuring ratings throughout the area. If it will be commercial, let it go to the market and leave the real Croatian television that will be public and where those who pay these fees will have the influence to be objective and not commercial. Therefore, it is an important situation and an important challenge in all of this if we do not decide, if the leadership of Croatian television does not do so, then we go to extremes. And then, then we'll suggest that if we keep this up without this, that such a contract, means that the fee can be broken, it can be broken. If, for example, I am dissatisfied and I do not want to watch as there are viewers who said that after the last Latin, they do not want to watch Croatian Radio Television, then we as a Croatian Parliament must give him the opportunity to break up this mandatory contractual relationship through the character of the fee. If we're a legal state! Therefore, we will either make Croatian television not to form a public opinion but to be objective and to give information to Croatian citizens and they are not stupid that they cannot form public opinion on their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37777	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. Namely, this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio Television wants to introduce a fairer collection of RTV subscriptions. She's the same all over the country for now. We heard a few variations yesterday, whether it's a subscription, whether it's necessary or whether it's necessary or not to account for VAT or the like. The division of richer and poorer counties would be more realistic if all personal income and income were paid in accordance with the Law rather than the combination of bills and cash. We finally know too much work on black, so the real picture might be different. The average salary in Zagreb is higher than in other counties but in Zagreb lives next to the richest layer of the population, so they are mahogany managers, directors, and finally amongst the richest include TV stars and a large number of low-income families also live here. It's these people who would be punished by an increased subscription and by the rich anyway. Rich people live through what the poor see in soaps with expensive subscription. The subscription is income exclusively national television and radio, and I'm normally interested in how it's spent. From the findings of the state audit, we have seen spending easily and often not in accordance with the law. So it's too big for HRT. I'm interested in how much the subscription rate is spent on national programmes, cultural programs, religious programs, information programs, entertainment programs and how much on manipulations in different talk shows. I warned before when Mr. Galić was once when Croatian radio and Croatian television selected topics, guests, quotes, skillfully carved order of news prove that HRT is almost one-party television, which is the current government's passing elemental disaster. If so, the subscription should be paid by HRT favorites and not by the people, for 63 kuna viewers, listeners should receive a quality and independent professional programme, which is on HRT more exceptions than the rule. Several kunas more or, higher or lower subscriptions will not ensure the protection of the national cultural interests of the Republic of Croatia because most HRT employees, most HRT employees, are not exactly a favorite subject, so they do not leave the opportunity to bring ever-increasing guests from Serbia-Montenegro who celebrate Yugoslavia, Tito and the party with an approving climate with the head of TV leaders and leaders. Pay me 55 or 65 kuna we will watch and listen still at the beginning of the news hits of the Black Chronicle with very detailed pictures regardless of whether it be lunch, breakfast or dinner. Generalization of the sins of certain professions, the lynching of non-imaginatives, the lamentation of the so-called so-called lamentation. independent experts who accused the same editors of corruption ten years ago, e.g. "Mr. 10%" and so on. And the biggest qualification of the partners is that they are happy to speak against the current government. And finally, I'm not surprised that the editorial team is manipulating viewerism and listening, but I'm surprised that they're asking for more and more money for it. The growing number of ads on the first and second HRT programmes certainly reduces the revenues of commercial television companies that do not have a steady and extensive income in the RTV subscription. So if we don't agree with them, at least we don't pay them. Expensive editors and journalistic TV stars of HRT are spending quite the money the law provides them with without noticeing in their self-advantage that television is becoming more and more palanical and less national and cultural. Well, HRT is about to prepare us and lead us to Europe, and it's actually moving us away from the civilizational achievements of the 21st century. Anyway, we pay for it, 45 or 67 kuna. In the County of Međimurje or Zagreb, there is certainly too much money for what we get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37779	Thank you. Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will make a very short contribution to this short law that actually raises a number of issues and possible debates and about the role of public television in Croatian society, about the situation in electronic media in general and the degree of their development and co-ordination and legislation that manages to monitor all these newspapers in this area, about justice and possible different burden redistribution, and these subscriptions to the public service service service to the whole series in which to develop the state uniformly. So, whatever areas I would now accept in my ten-minute debate, I would naturally have a series of views that reflect on this brief law. Is this, however it was called, the best way and methodology of calculating the absolute amount that at least a certain amount of time we are paying as citizens, is TV receiver as a category and as a starting point the best model? That might be what we should talk about. So if we just go from that to whatever it is, I'm talking about the methodology and it's always the absolute amount that we pay. He's been 59 kunas so far, he's with and he's going to be some reasonable time 63 kuna, he's still an individual burden but for a TV host in the household. If we're talking about average salary as a category then we can only talk about those who receive that salary. So we can come up with one of the super-sacrifice situations that in a particular county you have an extremely small number of employees with relatively high incomes, and then the question is, what about those other unemployed, who are pensioners, who receive salaries on black and also watch television. So a fairer category would be household income on average in that county, not just employees, if we're talking about some kind of justice. How far to go and if it's possible I don't know. In my opinion, looking at the most just fee would be a minute of ratings. As we came to HT to do with competition, of course these subscriptions should not be but to pay for minutes of conversation, so I suppose it would be fair and fair to pay for the ratings if that is at all possible. So there's no such thing as control and that's not possible. So the number of household members is the same category that people view for this same subscription and with what income. So I return to this average salary in the Republic of Croatia that everyone participates in some way and that I do not think that this way of calculating wages per county is first technically possible and secondly, that it is much more just. Because now I'm not gonna talk about the cost of living in a single county, then we'd get too far. So about the structure of the population, that I come from Koprivnica and Križevci County, so this average of 3 and 700 and something, not 3 and 200 that he said here, is slightly bigger than some others but is below the average of what we are all looking at, and that's Zagreb. And I'm not sure if we would accept this law to come across a huge clapping of millions and some of the inhabitants that form the structure of the Zagreb population. And also in Koprivnica and Križevci County you have a whole series of agricultural households, of course, which are not even shown in this salary. So I repeat, I'm not sure this is more just than we already have. But then I'm definitely for not paying for something that doesn't exist. So where the signals are disabled for lack of work and for failure to comply with the Croatian laws of transmitters and connections. I am here to place the Croatian Parliament in the role of that corrective and legislator who wants laws in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia to be respected, implemented and that people can consume the consequences of favourable laws. That's what I'm talking about. And I am for discussing how that money is spent. And I am about to discuss the height of that fee. So I am for when there is a debate on Croatian television, and I suppose given the law and its public role and the findings of the review that we will discuss this very quickly. So that we as the voice of the people participate in how the funds are spent, whether this programme that people get is related to the subscription they pay well, is not, whether this subscription can be given to new competition in a number of other televisions and to a possible choice. So you only have to watch through that TV, you can't have one TV that you're going to watch RTL, TV New, and they won't watch HTV. So this inability to recognize who, which and where he is looking at, is something that has therefore given, and also the law, the possibility for Croatian television to have a certain monopoly. And the law of tromility from those times when Croatian television was the only electronic public media we ever had. So I don't think it's possible to consume this bill, and I personally think, regardless of the logic of the explanation that my colleague Pavlic gave that he's no more righteous than the one we've got right now. If, I repeat, we take all indicators of what makes household income and the burden that this 63 kuna subscription, which I also consider to be relatively high, carries for a particular household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37781	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It's my dear fellow Lonchart. Here's a colleague of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37782	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Although this law is completely inconclusive, I will support it. Why? Because the Law on Croatian Radio Television exists, one of the most radical and unethical laws in the history of television. I was deeply convinced that those who got the legality and legitimacy of changing laws on November 23, 2003, and that they would change one of the supernada laws that is nowhere in the world, and they didn't do it, and that's why I'm going to support the one that's inconclusive so that we have absurd absurdities. The title of this law is the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Croatian Television. There's a lot of talk here about the subscription. Since this is a proposal to supplement the Law on Croatian Television, I will talk about something else and I will talk about examples of how Croatian Radio Television works today. She's legally a public medium. I defined it with Forum 21 eight years ago, that it must be the public service of all its citizens. What is she in reality today? Today, in reality, this television, in a moral sense, promotes the Palanic mentality in a commercial sense, is the strongest commercial television in Croatia, so that I do not further explain. I will now give three examples of what Croatian Radio Television is doing, as it specifically reports from this House, and then, in accordance with the proposal of this law, and I will suggest what I think about it. My colleagues and colleagues here discussed the Antifascism Declaration on 7 April this year. On the evening of the "Dnevnik" Croatian TV, here is the tape, we saw something that is unimaginable. The way that report was sent from here would be a shame to Goebbels himself, and now I'm going to explain it. I'm not talking about a journalist because it has nothing to do with journalism, but it has to do with her bosses. I spoke to this journalist in the presence of witnesses and she admitted to me what she did and apologized to me, but that doesn't mean anything to me because my family and I were hurt. So this was taken off this tape and I'm going to read it now. So she goes off-ton, after counterpart Nenad Stazic and says the following, quotes: "With the emphasis of the anti-fascist definition of Croatia IDS and SDP, they suggest equalising the rights of the participants of the Homeland and National Liberation War and there begins the representative count of the victims of Jasenovac, Bleiburg, Glog Otok. That's where the historic division begins on red and black, on commies and on others. The situation completely got out of control of the chairman after MP Lončar's resignation. "It completes the quote and releases my tone there: "Friends and colleagues", there is a phonogram "after my basic presentation, no one had any correction of the incorrect allegations, no replication or violation of the Rules of Procedure. So a Goebbels construction that has caused me incredible pain and then under the alleged signs of "journalist" is what I said, but at the presentation of my colleagues, Damir Kajin. Now let's not quote it, mostly she's here... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you talking about? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, here's a quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So she says it all started after my exposure which is not true, and I am as my colleague Cain said, he, colleague Cain, was saying, well, actually, I have plenty of time to get a phonogram. Here comes Damir. Here, so I quote what I said to my colleague Cain back then. A colleague, Cain, said literally, quotes: "I agree that individuals could commit a few crimes" completed a quote, and then this journalist puts the following to me, so after that off-tone of hers that I quoted earlier: "The head of crime and the head of the criminal organisation of those so-called. The antifascist himself was Comrade Tito, the white pet." That's what I said, but in another context, I'm staying with it. But it is known that even ten of the sentences taken from a scientist's speech do not have that man who can't go to the guillotine. But let's move on, that journalist then to my reaction, to Mr. Pupovac's exposure, and I reacted to this. Then Mr. Pupovac said: "Antifashism is our value especially for some occasions, but at the same time we will allow with an unusually easy existence, a manifestation and the presence of fascism in everyday life including, of course, this Assembly here and it is inadmissible" finished quote. I, please, refer to it with the corrections of incorrect allegations and say, again, I will quote: "Mr. Pupovac said that antifascism is being insulted in the Parliament, everything is completely incorrect and thus the colleague of Pupovac relativises antifascism. We're all anti-fascists. I'd like to see who it isn't. But who in Croatia is an anti-fascist and what it is in Croatia anti-fascism." Afterwards, a colleague, Pupovac, said "there is hatred in this House". "Exactly fellow Pupovac, you have now spoken it in your speech because you have relativated the Croatian sanctuary, and the Croatian sanctity is antifascism. Then the Croats also defeated Serbian fascism from 91 to 95 and for tragedy and irony to be greater, we have two Chetniks in the Croatian National Assembly today," the quote concluded. And be careful now that the journalist mentioned is reporting. She's on this tone from Mr. Pupovac, which I haven't responded to, and be careful what she gives me a nice tone. It plays a tone as follows, I quote: "It is in this Chamber that we do not speak to the public, one of the fundamental values of our Constitution attacks in the way it is attacked. For me, it is a direct creation of Mr. President in the state," finished the quote. Without any explanation, she now puts it, if this is a tear from the context, now she puts my tone and says, quote: "and tragedy and irony is bigger, we have two Chetniks in the Croatian National Assembly today." Is that the same with what's been said here? etc. etc. Then on April 13th, we had a discussion here about the Antifascism Declaration. There were two declarations completely equal, one of nine parties, and the other of the HSP, and the same journalist 13 in the "Dnevnik" Croatian public reports this way. I quote: "Most of the votes were accepted," the declaration, "which was drawn up by HDZ, SDP and IDS, was signed by all other parliamentary parties except HSP. It is interesting that the declaration that confirms Croatia's anti-fascist commitment calls for a permanent affirmation of the care of anti-fascist values and requires that anti-fascist movements and ideologies of communism are not equated, not supported by three party members who are co-author of the declaration. These are HDZ's Branimir Glavas, Vladimir Šišljagic and Ivan Drmic. They were against Ivo Loncar and another MP whom neither the parliamentary voter has been able to identify so far." Please be nice here to suggest Ivo Lonchar is a fascist because he is against the anti-fascist declaration. I didn't support one, but I supported the other, which is completely legal and legitimate. And imagine after that, this happens, that in a high school in history, a teacher tells students that there is a fascist in Parliament who did not vote for the Antifascism Declaration. I've informed the CEO of the information program about all of this. There are witnesses. He promised me an apology, until today he didn't do it. And the third thing, here's how time leaks, December 8th of last year's complete recording, here when there was a vote in Parliament, that's when my colleague Pupovac attacked me that I voted instead of Mr. Chehok. Since this camera has been recording all along, everyone who understands television journalism technology knows that "time code" can't be interrupted by anything, that it's authentic. This exists on Croatian TV and I have it. And that's where I was attacked to vote, and you can see my position all the time. This is where Croatian television lied to the Croatian public. And then I went to the editor-in-chief of the information program of Croatian Radio Television, Mr. Vladimir Roncevic. He also promised me, as in the previous two times, that he would apologize in front of witnesses and that he would publish what his journalists had cooked. I didn't want to talk about this reporter, name or name, but I'm not going to talk about this reporter who lied. Generally, I can say that he is today the leading journalist of Croatian television. By the way, after education, he's a graduate waiter. Here, colleagues and colleagues, I fought all the time for public television, I'm fighting now. What do I want to do with this? What do I mean by this? I want to finally, and to be in everyone's best interest, change this concave law on Croatian broadcasting. I want Croatia's broadcasting to serve all its citizens, to serve the general good, to inform in an objective, fair, cultural, civilized and above all moral manner, rather than using such methods as I have presented these two examples. As far as I'm concerned, I could bring up more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37783	Thank you very much, comrade Lonchar. It's very interesting to consider one case even your own. But I must tell you that your defense before us was not the subject of this law. She's, she's interesting to hear, but you've completely missed out on the subject, except for the final part and the beginning of your debate. And I need to get to that part... Take it easy. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Hold on, for God's sake. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Hold on, for God's sake. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37784	On the trail of your resignation, Mr. Vice President, and according to Article 209, or 214, if anyone has escaped from this topic bearing the title of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on Croatian Television, then it is Mr. Loncar. This was all the time a fight with a journalist, not a debate on the Law on Croatian Radio Television, which Mr Lončar himself in a very large way promoted until 2000, in a very correct and professional way. And I owe him that and admit it. However, this may have been the subject of a possible apology by Croatian broadcasters, and according to Mr. Loncar, if he was injured. But not the subject of discussion on the completion of the Croatian Radio Television Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37785	Well, now I have to say, it's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and besides, it's not about your duty, it's about my duty to warn my colleague, the Loncher, and I did it myself. And I just have to say that there's a law of opportunity that if a fellow Lonchart, because of all this he thinks he needs to look for a satisfaction he has and knows where and by what procedure he has to look for it. Comrade Lonchart, you asked me to ask my colleagues to have an understanding. I will give my colleague Lonchar an extraordinary opportunity to answer another sentence as he has said. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37786	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much because I really don't have any business opportunities to say. This is your goodwill, because, unfortunately, in our Rules of Procedure, there is nothing that an independent can say. Here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Television. There is a syntagma in the speech room that says the speech parabola. I wanted to show through these speech parabolas what is happening today on Croatian television, and I said that in a moral sense, it is the palace, and in a commercial sense, the strongest commercial television in Croatia, which is inadmissible and which is not in accordance with the Law. Here, thank you very much for letting me do this and...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37787	Of course, I can't comment on this part because then I'd argue with your opinion, but... Let's move on. [[/Intruder: Let's move on.]] Thank you, colleague of the Merchants. In the name of... He's giving up? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Would the proposaler's representative like to take the final word, given that the government's representative is giving up? Yes, my colleague Pavlic has a word. Here you go, colleague Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37788	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me first of all thank you for your involvement in the debate about this Law. So the debate itself has shown that the topic is interesting and that we should actually conduct a debate on this whole system. I remain, therefore, with my position that HRT is now, as defined in this way, tax, one form of tax and, therefore, must be based on principles of equality and justice. I repeat, therefore, the equality that everyone pays for it, and this should be noted that almost all households in the Republic of Croatia are paying for it. So this law affects almost all households in the Republic of Croatia. But it must also be based on the principle of justice, i.e. that some criteria are accepted that would, therefore, facilitate groups or in my proposal for a region, i.e. enable them to pay this tax under more favourable conditions. As another support for the need to do so in this way, in the regions. I've already said that regions are unequal to each other on average net pay, that it goes from 3,000, e.g. in Međimurje County, up to 4 and a half thousand in the City of Zagreb for various reasons. But there's also the fact about the height of the union basket. I have this information that a union basket in March 2005 for the regions of southwestern Croatia, so, Međimurje, Zagorje, Koprivnica and Križevci County, etc., was only 5 thousand 876 kuna and the average salary of 3 thousand and 300 kuna. That the union basket in the same month, therefore, for the region of Zagreb and Zagreb County was 5 thousand 766 kuna and that the average salary was 4000 and 800 kuna. I mean, this law can't solve differences, so between our counties, but I think you should consider them. As for the authenticity of the data, therefore, the net average salary itself is one of the data that is processed from month to month by the State Statistics Office every month, and this data is highly credible. He's not just used in Croatia, is he? So that the nearest one can take a picture of the social situation in a region. It is no accident that in Međimurje the average salary is 3,000, that there are 4 and a half thousand in the Zagreb region. So it must be known somewhere. And from the moon to the moon, it's followed by FINA. So we have very detailed and precise data on the movement of average wages per county from month to month. So, this law, this debate on this law, has shown that it is very necessary to discuss it, and what I suggest is actually the simplest solution in this direction. It is only in the addition of 6 words in Article 53. The law on Croatian television that would contribute, therefore, to charge the tax in a fairer way. What I'd like to warn you about, and I can see that we've all agreed more or less about it, is, therefore, to end the possibility that this fee will be charged to those users who can't enjoy the HRT program, I think we should definitely do it, here's the Ministry, maybe the Parliament itself intervenes with its conclusion. Here, only in the end to support that something needs to be done is a reminder to the court that I was showing, it is a gentleman from Bukovec, Selnica municipality, in Međimurje County who did not pay a fee for 6, 7 and 8 months 2004, precisely because he could not follow the programme, with legal tight interest and with the current costs, 248 kuna came to him, and the cost of this notice was 124 kuna, totaling 373 kuna, the cost relates to the costs of the law firm Hanžeković-Radaković and partners. And what's particularly highlighted here in the event of non-payment we have a warrant to charge the above debt by court, which will cause you further costs, here it is ruthless to the end. I don't think that we as a Parliament should allow it, and in the end we know that every consumer who doesn't get a favor doesn't have to pay for it. So this is the first reading, we heard various and concrete proposals, but unfortunately, according to the government, this bill will not go into second reading, which I don't think is good, but therefore we could have made some kind of variant that would suit all. There again with regret for this reason I thank you all once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37789	Thank you, dear colleague Pavlic. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met, probably this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37790	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Television, P.Z. No. 273. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio Television proposed by MP Željko Pavlic for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? I find that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by 71 votes for, 13 abstentions and 13 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37791	We move to the next point - Proposal for a Law on Croatian Parliament TV – Proposer of Representative Frano Piploić, first reading P.Z. No. 274. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The government of the Republic of Croatia also delivered its opinion. If the motionary's representative, as he now sees, clearly wishes, is very impatient, please welcome colleague Frano.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here is a two-and-a-half year idea that the Democratic Center in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament has been launched, has come in the form of a bill proposal in the bench of the Croatian Parliament, there is before you to discuss it and to give an opinion as to whether this is what can happen at this time, whether this is what the Croatian public needs, the Croatian Parliament. Namely, in order to be as public as possible in the work of the Parliament, to be more understanding, more communication between us parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public, as a whole that the Croatian public has insight into what Croatian MPs are doing, the Democratic Centre has raised this issue in the past, I will briefly remind my colleagues that it was 14 January 2003, then it was referred to one with a conclusion, the Committee on Information, Information and Media where the Croatian Parliament's principal presidency supported the opinion on the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Democratic Centre and the Presidency suggested to the Committee on Information, Information and Media that, on the basis of Article 98. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament consider this Proposal for a Club of the Democratic Centre and the establishment of the Parliamentary Television and, within a reasonable period, to obtain all necessary technical and financial data for the establishment of the Parliamentary Television, the Bureau's report on this, probably the reason why it did not come up after parliamentary elections, so that it was probably considered a less significant issue, there were more important issues to be discussed. So here we are, re-convening this question, and we have made our proposal that needs to be discussed. The proposal is ahead of you, I will say a few introductory notes that came directly to us in the 9th month, namely, as you remember in September of last year, Croatian Parliament President Vladimir Seks gave one of his reviews, as President of the Parliament, that there is not enough monitoring of the work of parliamentary activities in Croatia, and that this has actually caused such a single assessment of the President of the Parliament, one quite of the avalanchest comments, a criticism where individuals have collapsed on the President of the Parliament, the assessments that he is actually seeking more politics and more himself and more of his own parties. We have estimated that it is still a good time to be involved in the activity and that our request has already been updated, we have witnessed that informing from the Croatian Parliament is not fully satisfied with all segments having a lot of objections, the Croatian public itself is not satisfied with the information from the Assembly that we as parliamentary representatives do and do, you also have one survey carried by Croatian RadioTelevision that the viewing of direct transmissions of the Croatian Parliament sessions is about 2.5%. We ourselves as members of the Croatian Parliament are often not satisfied with what is being informed we have now heard this debate of colleagues Lončar, there are certainly other perhaps similar remarks. In that term that has been set for the transfer of the session of the Croatian Parliament, there is often not much that can come before the Croatian public, so we have witnessed that as parliamentary representatives we have actually pushed into that term to say what we were going to say about the meetings of the assembly to get to that knowledge of the Croatian public of what we do and do. So on that side we have this dissatisfaction between us MPs and political parties also often are not satisfied there are these assessments,...not to mention. In fact, the fellow journalists themselves often draw us by the sleeves in order to get the quality information needed by the station of their editorials in order to get ratings, i.e. listeningness, reading in their media and ultimately Croatian Radio Television itself, and it is also partly unsatisfactory because that term could probably be sold for commercial purposes to earn more money than it can earn from what I suppose it gets from us, or television subscription, but I am not sure that this is the only reason you would probably want much more money. We in this our proposal here gave one of our visions to make it look about, respecting the way laws are proposed. We gave the programming principles and obligations here which are, that this law on Croatian Parliament television should be based on three basic principles to obtain, implement the principle of informationivity, the principle of objectivity and the principle of professionalism accordingly, we gave indications that the content of the programme would look roughly like the structure of Croatian TV of the Croatian Parliament. This is what we predicted in Article 13 that the function of the Governing Council should be done by the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, we provided for this Proposal for Law and Directors and how to reach the Director. Then, employees wanting to cut costs, today more or less when you are proposing the Law you must also give some indicative coster. We wanted Parliament to be interested in this issue, so in order to reduce these costs, we suggested that it be a special department within the Croatian Parliament Secretariat and that employees be those who meet, it means the conditions by means of their professional arrangements to be from the secretariat and that those professional external, professional employees, above all relating to cameramen, installers, means... the technique to be engaged in this in some way through external cooperation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, the Croatian Radio and Mr Mirko Galić, whom I spoke to before I referred this proposal to the procedure, promised the assistance of Croatian Radio and Television. It seems to me that there was also a memo after the session of their council that Croatian radio television is interested in helping the launch and opening of Croatian Parliament television and in this sense they have proposed staff assistance, technical staff, means cameramen, installers who are now retired and could still give their knowledge and experience in the formation of this television and that they would probably be part of that technical equipment. That's a brief explanation. Now, when we see an assessment of the government that was given here in writing, then we see that the government is referring to the Law on Electronic Media and, in fact, to the legal inability that now doesn't actually exist to have television from the Croatian Parliament. There's no free frequency. Under the current law, they should have a company that should report to the competition. In the competition, it means it gets the right to use the concession. We have also taken into account this restrictive circumstances in our proposal that it would actually be best to use the current opportunities to go to Croatian television for start, to be a production centre and to actually have an electronic publication and broadcast to be on the Internet instead of TV from the Croatian Parliament. The proposed legislative solution would, it says, achieve the following. The Croatian Parliament TV would record all official activities of the Croatian Parliament, plenary sessions, committee sessions, permanent and ad hoc parliamentary committees and at a later stage depending on technical possibilities and all other information on the work of the Assembly bodies, such as the computer list registered for discussion, the digital texts of the amendment or the entire legislative proposals currently discussed for example in teletext form, etc. So that's the kind of solution you have today in European countries. First of all, when we were making this bill, we were guided by the experiences of the English Parliament. For each activity there would be a directorial control of the picture exclusively in the professional sense of selecting the most informative staff, a display of speakers and the like while the tone part of the event would go without any interventions. A program like this would be broadcast via the Internet, which today is shown as an ideal medium for comprehensive coverage of the Parliament. Parliament's work would thus be in front of the public at any moment, as the technical opportunities of Croatian internet users are increasing from day to day due to the availability of a wide-based internet. This leaves the possibility that each media house will assess how attractive an individual debate is so that it could be included according to its commercial standards. In periods of dead TV and radio hours, they could broadcast footage of all events. The study of Croatian Parliament TV would record the statements of participants of individual events from that day on, say, the chairman of the committee who had the discussion on that day, the individuals who proposed individual laws, both participants of a more demanding dispute at committee meetings or plenary session. A statement may be made by any representative, with the mandatory announcement of his wish, at the session on which he wishes to speak so that the other party may prepare an answer on a matter. It's important that in that sense... both participants without comment or editing and editing their statements, of course with technical constraints. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The technical realization of congregation Internet television as a project consists roughly of three parts. A number of cameras will be set up in the working rooms in which assembly sessions, committees and commissions are held in accordance with the technical project. In a specially defined and decorated room will be arranged studio and directing with computers, adequate power and configuration and mix counter. All cameras are connected to the studio or the director's room and the video mixer. So the resulting video signal turns into... The signal that will be directed towards... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the server from which users will be able to monitor the transfer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In such a study, a video signal can also be given to other TV homes and cable TV. I can record and make attachments that will then be able to post on the Internet for down load. The adoption of this legislative predicate would immediately increase the public's work of the parliamentary bodies, for the first time give real media importance to work on parliamentary committees, the HRT's responsibilities in assessing which part of the work of the Croatian Parliament would be transferred, opposition to the manipulation of the parliamentary majority would be excluded, the work of individual representatives would be more visible and their views on certain issues clearer to voters who would win. Finally, they would fully consume their constitutional right to monitor the work of their parliamentary representatives. In particular, it is important to highlight the great advantages of Internet transmission over others. Internet transmission is a cheap and fast mode of transmission, available worldwide to all media, diplomatic and consular representations to the Croatian diaspora, is available to a large number of Internet users in Croatia. Clearly, all of this should highlight low costs and all of those Croatian citizens who would like to have a direct insight into, say, diplomatic and consular representations, various bureaus around the world, cultural, artistic societies around the world, clubs could have one insight into the work of the Croatian Parliament. Here, colleagues and colleagues, that would be briefly related to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37793	Thank you, dear fellow Piploic. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first is the club IDS's esteemed colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37794	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of Croatian Radio Television, the distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament! What we have today is this proposal that Mr. Piploic proposes in my court is bad. I mean, television is the way he suggests monitoring the Parliament. The Croatian Radio Television on the other hand has provided itself with a TV subscription completely independent, which is good for which we all have to be clear and the Croatian Parliament indirectly and from there persistently not to say systemic marginalization and the other is certainly bad. And what is minimum, what Croatian Radio Television should do to give us back at least one hour of television transmission in the morning as it was until two or three months ago. We all probably agree that Croatian broadcasting is the most powerful medium, but on the other hand, the Croatian public must know that power is not in the Croatian Parliament, power is primarily in Croatian capital that has become untouchable and is not touched by written or electronic media. Why? Because of that same capital they live on, and in the end, it's all "hypocrisis" of to God's media independence. Here, just today I came up with one piece of information that the gross value of advertising in 2004 was about 3.2 billion kuna or 426 million euros, from which on our television, on all TV waste 2 billion 68 million kuna, on the journals of 519 million kuna, on the magazines 362 million kuna, on the external advertising of 229 million kuna. I repeat, so it's 3 billion 180 million kuna. Let's say what are the most famous categories. Telecommunications was spent on advertising 333 million kuna last year. And now you imagine that some medium is going against them. No, they won't. Financial institutions, banks and so on, 199 million kuna. These car salesmans 171 million kuna, alcoholic beverages 129 million kuna, other services etc., etc., and now not to mention it. That's the first thing I'm trying to say, well she told me Mrs. Chichin-Shain a little sooner that there's no one in this House to buy, that's our power, that's clear, it would be a disaster if someone came down to it and if that were the case. But the simple fact is that the Parliament is unfortunately, and that's why we're largely blaming the last hole in the play ourselves. Real powers in this country are also in the media because they are being placed above all else, so on Croatian broadcasting it is the same information. You have over 200 people who are paid better than Croatian ministers. The power is finally in the government but the Parliament is repeating the last hole in the play, the place where media independence is forged, which is good, courage, determination, etc., and why? Because everyone knows that no one in this society is threatened by the Parliament. The danger can clearly threaten them from the executive authority, from those who would give up advertising but not from the Parliament, and we must publicly tell the Croatian public that the Parliament is not a power. Every editor on Croatian Radio or any other media house is in a better position than any parliamentary representative, and that is true and that is also to be said. And that's what people need to know. And to whom does the position of the Parliament fall? They fit people with power, first of all capital, they fit the executive authority, maybe part of the media, etc. Croatian broadcasting must be a medium that must be monitored by the Croatian Parliament. The Assembly on the other hand did not catch me by the word provided by 500 or 600 million kuna from the so-called ". television subscriptions. Under quotes, I said a unique tax for which everyone would pass on assembly sessions other than Croatian radio television. Okay, I agree, I don't have to follow the House from 9.30 to 19, but from 9.30 to 13.30, how was the deal with the Executive Director or with the President of the Board I don't know what it's called, the Director should just do it. Say something on the other hand against any media that means automatically putting yourself on the blacklist. And we're all afraid of that, especially those who live off that public appearance. We're all clearly afraid under media allegations. And what does that mean? I will once again say that power is not in the Parliament but that power is in large capital or capital in the media or executive power. I will not quote this opinion that the government has sent to Mr Frani Piplojic, however, I am personally against the parliamentary television that would be able to monitor the chosen ones. I am not against another parallel media to monitor Croatia's radio television but to give up that transmission on another channel, I am absolutely against it. So IDS is for direct transmission on the second channel at least in that period until 13.30. On the other hand, the former government absolutely shouldn't have sold the third channel, it was one disastrous decision in my court, but now to be cynical, if we sold the banks, if we sold the INU, the Croatian Telecom, if we were planning the Oil, which would be a crime against all of Istria and the state, why wouldn't someone sell the third channel. As soon as we're good, let's go. However, gentlemen, with the financial sovereignty that we sold through banks, economically after the sale of these major Croatian telecom companies, etc., we also transferred media sovereignty to the third. So for the end of the Parliament, no one should dictate when, or when no session of the Parliament is transmitted, there is no one to threaten the Parliament. The Parliament should be independent and have the strength to say, gentlemen, don't marginalise us, because it marginalises public life in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And then this clearly leads to a total nihilism that is present today in the Croatian public because it creates the impression that everything in politics is bad but everyone will agree that the Parliament is still under the quotes "cleanest" place of public life in the Republic of Croatia. And finally, Croatian Radio TV and politics, as well, everyone who is in politics and everyone who is on Croatian Radio TV knows that. Whoever doesn't admit it is not really aware of the power of the media and the question of whether there are independents. There are only a lot more prone to this or that option and it's a tragedy because public life is directed to the media as it suits the media. And beyond that, maybe it's the interest of capital again or clearly some policies. Therefore, the Parliament must fight for independence on its own and not allow it to be conducted on the side of any media. For the end. It is good that this government did not touch the Council of Croatian Radio Television, it is good that it did not lead, it touched the leadership of Croatian Radio Television. I'm sure she'll end those deadlines and change that. I know she even likes it when she comes to the opposition, she has a situation like today's government. However, I do believe that the mandates should expire culturally, not that anyone should be called for any rematch. What the IDS Club advocates is that the Assembly should preferably be integrated. If not at least in that period from 9.30 to 13.30 and that should be one minimum. That is why there is a certain need, it is a political necessity and I also hold a contribution to Croatian democracy. So, the IDS Club is not against Mr Piplovic's proposal, but let the Assembly be parallelly transferred but transferred to II. The channel still needs to stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37795	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. It is next, dear colleague Bosnjakovic, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37796	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so we haven't once witnessed how many of us cried out and President of the Parliament asked for something to do to get certain sessions and discussions directly on our public television. But the reality is that, public television has as much space as it does, the program has as much as it does, and I really don't think in the world that the sessions are actually being transmitted throughout the course. We can now, of course, be content or dissatisfied with the way they carry us, colleagues are many and many are not really satisfied and it is in fact necessary to view it as a democratic achievement that the President of the Parliament can't order anyone or any of us to carry something, means that television still has that freedom. Now the quality of it, it's a completely different question. And on the very basis of this, I think that this proposal came from the past and this proposal that counterpart Frano Piploić delivered today to us that the Parliament set up one of its own televisions that would actually transmit the entire session, which would also be held by committee sessions and committee sessions and where the public would actually be more complete, in fact fully informed about our work, and it is quite certain that the picture of us as representatives and images of the Parliament as, as Parliament, would be completely different than it is. However, this proposal for a law will not support the HDZ Club. We think the government is right about that. It is in certain segments contrary to the Law on Electronic Media and has certain indeterminations such as these set up. First of all, we think that television could not function within the secretariat of the Parliament, and I think it would be very difficult for people who are now working in the secretariat of the Parliament to do other jobs all of a sudden redistribute to jobs related to television. And they have neither the qualifications nor the necessary skills. And then what is said here is that this project would cost several hundred thousand kunas, I think, is unobstructive. This project is far, far, far, far more expensive, and that is why we are not against this idea and we actually think that in the media space people should be given one, one such picture and that they should compete in this media space and with a programme like this, but if we are going to do so then we agree with the opinion here that the Committee on the Constitution actually gave here that, that we should approach it a little bit more studioly. That this should also be seen from the aspect of legal opportunities and from the aspect of technical and especially financial opportunities. And therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community, for these reasons, will not accept the proposal of this law, but on the basis of what you said and the Presidency, we see in the past, it has reached one conclusion that it is possible to enter into this project and think, here we too are asking the Presidency to put it back on the agenda to make the necessary analysis and to see whether it is actually both legal and financially possible, because it would certainly be much better if it were actually possible for our citizens to choose that there is one such medium where a session can be monitored throughout the day, not just by the Parliament, but by the Committee and all that is proposed in this proposal. So here is the Croatian Democratic Community Club not opposed to such an idea, but it needs to be seen in all its aspects to see if it is actually possible to be as realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37797	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37798	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Party's right club states that TV broadcasts in the Croatian Parliament certainly contribute to the democratisation of the Republic of Croatia because voters and the entire Croatian public see firsthand how their parliamentary representatives work or do not work or how and how they represent their interests and the like. I can conclude that we are all for the public work of the Croatian Parliament and for the transfer of parliamentary sessions. Once it was possible to do better than now because national television had three of its own programs, so the second programme was de facto reserved for the transfer of sessions of the Croatian Parliament. Some sessions were so interesting and impaled to the entire nation as they were interesting discussions about Krško or the economic belt. Recently, things have changed because Croatian television, or National Television, has only two programmes. And based on that space for the transfer of constituency sessions, it's almost gone right now. And here we are in a big problem because the Republic of Croatia can only be 4 channels at national level for the sake of its shape and position and based on the European Agreement on the award of TV frequencies and channels in the Republic of Croatia. Two are now using national Croatian television and one RTL TV and Nova TV. So there's no room for another channel. Perhaps some other commercial television will decide to transfer the assembly sessions believing that everything that is happening in the Assembly will be so interesting and interesting. But I must point out that commercial televisions live and exist from advertising. So some colleagues in the Parliament may be interrupted by advertising for detergent or oil or some other product. Maybe that's why our colleague Piploic is afraid of it, so he's trying to make some kind of private television. It remains unclear how this programme of assembly television would be broadcast because via satellite and via the Internet it's impossible. For all of us to know that not even 5% of Croats have a fast internet or broadband connection to the Internet. The form of parliamentary television is condemned in advance by the motion that employees of this parliamentary television be people of the Parliament's professional service, which is unserious and unseriously cited in the light of this bill's proposal that the parliamentary television will exist from donations and cost several hundred thousand kunas which is absolutely unreal and not expected. This law would only give legitimacy to national television and Croatian television to remove from its programme the transmissions of current parliamentary sessions and thus, in a way, the parliamentary majority's will block the flow of information to the public about everything that is going on in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Croatian Party of Rights Club cannot support this Bill proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37799	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37800	Thank you, Mr. President. I am probably going to say a little differently now that I tend to those who are against the direct transfer of parliamentary sessions because it is also such a European practice. Walking through the European countries' parliaments, I also met with the fact that the sessions are not passed on but are given a summary at the end of the day, is it, by certain shows where then the essence of the legislation is being presented. Of course, in a way that is objective, which is professional and which brings the theatre closer to the work of that parliament in which the country is concerned, and I think that the personal and integrity of this House would contribute to such a way of working rather than directly transferring the session because sometimes this hall is staring at half-empty as it is right now, and does not mean that the representatives who are not doing anything here are not doing anything. I'll tell your personal example. So you know that they come daily in the organization of Gonga group of students from individual counties and that every time they come from our constituency, we young people are the ones who talk to them sometimes for an hour, two or three. So that's the only example I take as an example. So we're not here then. It's a direct transmission, you can't see us. And then we interpret to these children that the work of the representatives takes place behind the cameras and behind the scenes and that the parliamentary representative must work much more than he must, of course, participate in plenary debates and that he must say here that voters also see him. So I think that not only for that reason, but also for the reason that we may think better of ourselves than he thinks of broad audience, so I'm in the field, and I'm in daily contact with, there are no ordinary citizens, but those citizens who don't deal with politics or who follow Parliament meetings sometimes, but not with approval and clapping, but we also irritate them, so they think we're wasting and spend their time watching us, but also their own for which we're being paid. So there are such voices, and so should be respected and there is no such poll that anyone has conducted, and it might be convenient that, with these many surveys being done, we ask people what they think about passing hours and what they think about the possible introduction of another television that I think is neither the weather nor the state that has such means, nor the hunger for information, and that this is quite enough, of course, with the improvement of repeat, objective explanation, with respect for the profession and its rules when it comes to the sums and the comprehensiveness of the reports not only of those topics that are liked by certain journalists, but also of those topics which are both affirmative and not only speculative, but also of the economy and everything that makes life of all of us, so to say because each of the 4 million and something that has us, does not have any other area. This is why I am not and I am not going to give my vote for the introduction of Croatian Parliament television as new television, but I am therefore in favour of improving the report on the work of the Croatian Parliament on public Croatian television. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37801	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37802	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on Croatian Parliament television is so good, it's so brilliant, it's so remarkable, and from the point of view of television knowledge that it's television, it's just unimplementable, and that's why I can't accept it because of its genius. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37803	Thank you very much. Final review of the proposer's representative, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37804	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I thank all those who took part in the debate and told them what they had to say and we as promoters gave one, we had one initiative, we made one proposal. I said in the introduction not to plead that we are the smartest, the best. So we gave one initiative. We offered the Croatian Parliament, we had the courage to say in public, we offer it and we offer it, is it best, if someone had the best he could and could offer and has opportunities to continue to offer. No one here has denied that we have a problem, a problem exists, a dissatisfaction with information and what parliamentary representatives do, which comes to the public further. Furthermore, here, my colleague Trčević presented one limiting circumstance, which is in the distribution of European frequencies. Croatia has received four frequencies and there is no longer any possibility of getting any special channels. As far as the satellite programme is concerned, there is, however, I believe that although this proposal will be rejected and what a colleague would say in his own way that he has told his court about the programme, counterpart Ivo Loncar. I'd like someone else to offer something smarter and better. None of us will be able to avoid technological progress, they will sooner or later come here and into this House. I believe that if Croatia is fast approaching the European Union that we will have to adopt these technical technological achievements, that there will also be a list of reported on this display, so no one will ever question whether someone favored or favored someone, that in fact what a parliamentary representative as a mole does and does regardless of the size of the party will still come to the Croatian public and then one day Croatian citizens will be able to have on the market, this political market a greater choice, etc. It was our intention, not to show how smart we are, but to highlight the problem we will have to solve sooner or later. We are now putting off this problem and calling on all those who are more capable and have the same intentions to get involved in this. There is a possibility to call a tender for someone to get from these commercial televisions the possibility that or cable TV to be the one to broadcast from the Croatian Parliament. All in all, I will end up with that, here my colleagues will mention the same thing, press around large and powerful like the Croatian Radio Television, does not mean that we are at the same time as individuals or as political parties powerful. Maybe we can use those powerful ones, but it doesn't mean we're powerful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37805	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on Croatian Assembly Television, P.z. No. 274. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on Croatian Parliament television proposed by MP Frano Piploić is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find the proposed conclusion has been reached with 88 votes for, 3 abstentions and 5 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37808	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. What we propose to these amendments and additions to the Encouragement Act in agricultural production. In the shortest case, the return of incentives for breeding queen bees as breeding animals of 30 kuna per queen. I note, the return because by 2002 this production, so the breeding queen was stimulating. We submitted the proposal on the basis of the initiatives and arguments we received from the Croatian beekeeper's Union. According to their arguments, an average beekeeper who deals with beekeeping during the calendar year can grow up to a maximum of 1,000 queens, which means that with 30 kuna per queen, up to 30,000 kuna of incentives could be achieved. Why this proposal? By 2002 the breeding queens of bees were stimulated and according to the data with which they are available, from the 3200 queens we produced in Croatia in 94, in 2002 under the supervision of the selective cultivation of the Croatian livestock centre, the production of queens increased to 47 000. So, from 3200 to 47,000. The first year without the incentives that exist is in 2004 and the production of queens or queens from 47,000 dropped to 18 and a half thousand. I want to believe that no one should be convinced that the development of beekeeping without quality breeding of queen bees is not possible. We had and have organized breeding queens under the supervision of the Croatian cattle centre and according to their professional data due to the selection and supervision of the bee hives in those years were increased to 18%. Therefore, it is not only a nominal increase in the nuts or hives but also in the offerings of one hive. In 1999, Croatia had registered 87,000 hives of honey producers. 2003. 111 grand. 2001. Croatia exported 682 tonnes of high quality honey. In 2003, a thousand and 50 tonnes, and in 2004. 276 tonnes. According to their data, 75% of Croatia's honey production was also exported to the Western European market because Croatian honey is one of the best quality on the market. These are all arguments and information from the profession that indicate that without the promotion of the production of bee queens, it is not possible to keep pace with the development of beekeeping in Croatia. How much money should the state budget provide for this proposal. In the following year, not in this one, but in the next budget, 700 thousand kuna, and in 2007 million 400, million and 400 thousand kuna. I want to remind you of another problem. Croatia still unfortunately has large forest areas that are not demining. All these areas are ideal bees of pasha. And at this point and so long as they don't demine the only way of using them is just beekeeping. And only beekeeping. In her opinion, the government said it did not accept this proposal because there are no such incentives in European standards, that it would prepare its entire proposal for a reform of incentives in agricultural production, stressing that this must all be over by 2008. I would like to remind you that negotiations by 2008 and Croatian entry into the European Union are being conducted and will be conducted on deadlines, quotas and exceptions. Croatia will also have quotas of honey production for the European market, which will be valid from the moment Croatia enters the European Union. And why not in 2007 and 2008 and next year use it to help Croatian beekeepers raise their production so that the quotas that will be worth after 2008 are not only those that satisfy the current production of high quality honey but also that these quotas will be greater because we will also have such production. If, then, after 2008. Croatia should not or should not encourage and beekeeping by producing honey and rearing bees, but by 2008 we can do so as we had. I want to believe that these 700 thousand, or a million and 400 in 2007 will not be a serious financial problem for Minister Cobankovic. And in order for thousands of people in Croatia who are dealing with honey production as a basis for increasing the quality of bee breeding, a grey bee which is a domestic indigenous species, and that is why this quality is, but also taking care of the mined area of Croatia that we will not demining by 2008, help raise and produce so that our negotiators in the negotiations on quotas and possible exemptions have arguments not only of plans and strategies for the development of Croatian agriculture but also of the fact that they will come from data on honey, queens, hives and baskets, in particular exports. I didn't find any financial arguments in the government's opinion against that. So it's not a money problem. It is not a problem for the state to ask for investment in an extremely large and significant activity of agriculture. And I'll finish the next one. In the last six months, we have witnessed a large number of developed Croatian defenders who have begun to deal with beekeeping as an economic activity, and they have all witnessed that these types of activities and jobs provide not only material gain but especially those who have been or have been treated with PTSD in this way are in fact very much solving their problem. The number of beekeepers in their ranks from day to day is increasing especially in those parts of Croatia where these types of agricultural production are currently possible and only possible. That's our third reason for this proposal, and I want to believe that we will get the support of most MPs in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37809	Thank you very much. The Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. I'm opening a debate. ... But I shouldn't, I shouldn't, because it's 13 and 23, and then we're gonna hang up and move on at 3:00. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Just to see who's... On the agenda, they are, in turn, the first Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Honorable Vice President Mato Arlović at 15 o'clock, and the Honorable Representative Zdenka Chuhnil on behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and Honored Representative Željko Kurtov on behalf of HNS Representatives of the PGS. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Three clubs so far registered and two MPs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Please, I'll see you at 3:00. I remind you of the keys to prepare and appeal for MPs to be present at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament as much as possible. It's the 13th 25th hour. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Forestry and Fisheries. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37811	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Despite the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in its opinion expresses that the bill should not be adopted, I must say that we from the SDP's club accept this bill and we will support and vote in favour of this proposal. Why? Because it does not seem logical to us, above all, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in which it is said, to quote: "Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will develop a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Fisheries and Forestry, which will fully regulate this area, taking into consideration the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS." First, if changes and additions are to be made, then obviously they will not be fully regulated because it is already fully arranged or better said, there is a need to complement the already existing overall arrangement. Secondly, if the amendments and additions of the Club of Representatives of the CNS are to be taken into account, then it is obvious that this issue is clearly worth serious consideration. And thirdly, this is the proposal for a law in the first reading, so there are times until the second reading, and in this respect we see no reason why the Government of Croatia would accept that this bill is rejected. But, of course, these are arguments that can be drawn from the opinion itself. But there are far serious arguments that lead us to the fact that we are determined to support this bill. The fact is that the law on incentives in support of agriculture, fisheries and forestry, which was adopted in 94, was actually an incentive for gray bees, i.e. the queen was released and the fact was that it happened according to, and as shown by the reasoning of the bill according to statistical data, that there was actually a rapid decline not only of honey production but also of other consequential phenomena which could be particularly discussed, but, for example, the situation is next. Yes, from 1051 tonnes from 2003, production fell to only 276 tonnes in 2004, that from $3 million and $290 thousand, this production fell to just one million and 145 thousand, etc. etc. That, of course, exports fell significantly compared to previous times, etc. etc. Now what's this about? It is a very serious thing that practically in one of the activities in which Croatia has a tradition, has a high and quality success, has a very recognizable quality of organic honey and has a market in both the country and the world, in fact because of this insufficient incentive, it is actually losing some economic calculation for manufacturers in such a situation and it comes to a rapid decrease in production, which basically leads not only to smaller quantities of production but also to a loss of the market which is more difficult to adopt or access to that market later than just a question of decline of production that can be improved in a year, two or three days significantly and raised. Secondly, it is a matter of consequence, and we must not ignore the fact that the Republic of Croatia is very lagging behind in the permanent crops of mainly fruit and, of course, in such a situation, it is also very important to have the possibility of a synergic effect, for example, in the production of not only queens but not only of grey bees and its care and as a means, i.e. as one of the natural sprayers and fruit fertilisers, and in such a situation, it is absolutely certain that this issue is important to have in mind both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, and in this area to achieve an appropriate basis, to conclude the negotiations after the transition period, and to be able to meet the appropriate quotas in relation to what the European Union will not only seek and suggest to the Republic of Croatia, but to achieve it itself. And thirdly, it is particularly important to look here for incentives to produce nuts, so for the production of a new product not only for the spread of beekeeping in the Republic of Croatia but also for possible export products to the European market, but also for one product that can adopt new technologies and new knowledge and make a new scientific contribution to all of this. For all these reasons, it is quite clear that it is essential reasons that actually point to a rational conclusion that additional funds need to be invested in this area, so, if not otherwise, even through incentives, i.e. State support for these activities. In such a situation, we can actually discuss two issues that have remained unsaid, and that is the question of whether this 30th kuna per queen bee is enough to form a swarm around it or whether or not it is too little and the other question is whether these funds are secured. If they are not provided, the possibility of them being secured should be considered, and this is not at all controversial until the second draft of the law until the second reading. And thirdly, it's a relatively small number of queens of bees that would actually be asking for relatively small money, because if it's as the proposer here listed seven hundred to one thousand queens produced annually, then it's about 21 to 30 thousand kunas maximum in such a situation. Therefore, where luck is that there are more such producers because they would have their own market, absolutely certain that no queen bee will, if there is just to get an incentive, have to get the rest of the funds that could be shown to be cost-effective production. In order not to prolong and take your time, we will give just one more important argument. The grey bee is our indigenous breed in beekeeping, and it should be kept in mind that it is not good for other species of bee to appear in our home, while at the same time neglecting this bee, because some other species of bee have a completely different effect on the eco system in which they might appear, can significantly disrupt these eco-systems and also in relation not only to plants but also to animals and vice versa, so as a whole. And thirdly, it would be inadmissible for a grey bee to be put in a position to actually fall behind in development or God forbid it becomes endangered. And because of that and if it is smaller and if it gives relatively less, but therefore better quality honey, we choose to support this proposal and we will vote in favour of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, to encourage this activity with 30 kuna per queen bee, i.e. by a piece, for all the reasons that we have previously stated because we believe that they have their own economic, that they have their own if you want and political, that they have their own end-and-the-end health component, because let's not forget that honey products or that honey and its components can participate in the production of more than 60 medicines. Thank you very much. We will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37812	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhnil on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37813	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For many years, the European Union has been monitoring the situation in Croatia's agriculture, particularly statistical data, which will be its main asset in the negotiations on the basis of which production quotas will be determined in agriculture. Or how much and on what surfaces can be produced. To date, Croatia's agriculture has no point of data as much as it is produced in Croatia, and even less where agricultural areas are available. The figure moves from 802 000 to the 2003 Agricultural Economy Register. Over a million 457 thousand hectares according to the 2001 statistics, up to 3 million by some data, because it does not distinguish the farm area from the agricultural area. And unfortunately, incentives in the European Union are exclusively paid by a farmed hectare. The assessment of the State Statistics Institute that agricultural production increased by only 2% from 98 to 2002 with 100% increase in incentives suggests a complete failure of agricultural policy. Despite such devastating data, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy does not implement the Agriculture Act. The importance of the adoption of the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Areas is seen in the possibility of using pre-accession European Union funds, especially SPHRD, but above all to give guidance to our farmers, which is strategically important for Croatian agriculture and where to direct financial and professional investments. Is it vineyarding, fruit growing, vegetables, but let us not forget that there are limited areas around 50,000 acres [50,000 ha]. What do you do with the other surfaces? The answer that in 2003, the Ministry developed the National Programme for 2003. - 2005, but because of the election year and the change of government is not included in the Parliament's agenda, it literally disgusts me. No domestic agricultural policy has been harmonised after a year and a half, and Croatia has no national programme for agriculture and rural areas, nor 4 years after the adoption of the Agriculture Act. An even worse situation is behind the annual report on the situation in agriculture in the previous year. The so-called green report this House should have received by now 4 and none has been received, which is why agriculture in this House is not debated. The Green Report would assess the situation and economic situation of agriculture, as well as finally the proposal and how to implement the agricultural policy measures for the next period. So far, we in the Assembly have only newspaper and culinary data that is available from case to case or statistics, which is most often just an accurate collection of incorrect data. In the meantime, the market regulation mechanism is primarily esteemed, not defined. If we add this to each other the unconnection of the manufacturer, but also the lack of organisation of their joint appearance on the market, the hour we have excess meat, better say bacon, heroes, the hour we pay them in unimaginable figures like now the 28 kuna children, which will certainly result in a lack of meat in the autumn. We always have a lifesaver, an import, but no one has answered what our peasants will do, what with our agricultural areas. We're going to bury the mercantile potato again this year. Responsible, of course, is no one. If we had a Green Report in front of us, we would have seen for ourselves that the elimination of queen bee incentives as breeding animals, that reduced this production by 25%, but also the production of honey. Since 2001, production of both queens and honey has doubled, however, by abolishing incentives again in 2004 we have a stagnation of production and bee nuts and honey production. If we had a Green Report in front of us, we'd see that we were producing extra wheat. That the incentives resulting from Article 7(3) reduce incentives per hectare, but that this reduction is now used both illegally and where total requirements do not exceed the maximum amount of incentive and pay for smaller incentives on the throat, whether in tow or reproduction. When the law was passed, we in the Club of National Minorities warned that since the maximum prescribed quantity or so on, the quota proportionally reduced per hectare or throat is unacceptable. Except it'll open up the possibility of manipulation that's happening right this year. While other countries for non-compliance with quotas prescribe penalties we reduce incentives that are small enough to achieve any technological level, and thus we have paved the way for manipulation in all productions and those insufficient at the level of 60 to 70% self-sufficiency. If we had a Green Report in front of us, we'd see that we haven't increased the production of oil tails in four years, which means the incentives are insufficient. We did not enter the biodiesel programme even though we had approved 2 and a half million euros from the UNID for the project and the possibility of becoming a regional centre for this production for Southeast Europe. If we had increased incentives only for refactions, the stimulation of wheat exports, for which we spent 150 million today, we would have 50 thousand acres under the oiled tail and the safe production of biodiesel, or we wouldn't have argued whether to build a small drive of 5,000 tons or that of 50,000 tons because the turnips would be for all. With these incentives and the production of rape oil, it certainly won't be. The commitment to transport a certain percentage of biofuels is not only for members of the European Union but also for candidates. We will also import biodiesel with 300 thousand hectares of unprocessed surfaces, while failing to use the European Union's incentives for the non-food chain of production. If we had 50,000 oil tails today, 50,000 acres of rape oil, and not 15 and our beekeepers would be liquefied because it would grow in honey production. The incentives have doubled, as I have already said, in recent years. Production increased by only 2%. There are no competing export products. Before the '90s, we made about half a billion dollars a year on food exports, while last year we recorded a $700 million deficit. When we passed the Law, we proposed from the Club of National Minorities and incentives for market infrastructure, which includes cooperatives, cooperatives or other organisation of the transport of agricultural products so that we would not find marketing products too because of the lack of market infrastructure. That is, buying or better to say that they do not find a known buyer of their own product. It's been denied, but until today, unfortunately, we have no movement in the organization of smaller producers. We at the Club support the return of the incentive for queens of bees of about 30 kunas as much as it has previously been presented and that this incentive is achieved by beekeepers, users of farmed queens. This will primarily support the selection and cultivation of grey bees, such as our original breeds, and above all in order to increase production and improve its economic value. Unfortunately, market prices cannot fully compensate for the engagement and costs of queen growers, as a significant drop in breeding nuts was observed without incentives, and thus bees and honey production. We also support the amendment of the Law on State aid in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, I ask a question to all of us. Are we aware that undefined agricultural policy, unresolved price and market issues. The inability to produce optimally, a large number of small properties, an undeveloped hydromellation system are issues of Croatian agriculture that we have to solve exclusively ourselves before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Unfortunately, our agricultural production today is such that the European Union doesn't even see us as a market or thinks we can endanger it because it is literally at the level of their statistical errors. We must make a radical turn for the sake of our own future and the future of our peasants. Let's face this fact as soon as possible. The harmonisation of the law with the European Union's common policy as stated by the Government is necessary but application must be delayed until the entry into the European Union because otherwise Croatia's agriculture is on its knees and the same applies to beekeeping. First, we must increase all productions and then certainly join the European Union will not be questioned. I would like to point out once again that we at the club support all the measures that will contribute to increasing production, and therefore these amendments to the laws on incentives and to protect beekeeping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37814	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear representative of the Zeljko Kurtov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37815	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We in HNS are wondering and we do not understand why the law on, it is not clear why the Law only encourages queens, bees are left out and for all kinds of breeding animals exist in the Law. In order to bring this problem closer, I'm going to try on the production and flow itself, which is the most important thing here, I'm not going to repeat myself in front of my colleagues. In order to be productive it should be changed within one to two years, at that time it gives maximum, it is done by experienced honey producers also to be good should be produced from a healthy litter. The queens are most important in each hive because it depends on health, size of the bee and the most important contribution to the hive. In the table itself we see that in 2002 the number of hives has 107 thousand, produced 2060 tonnes of honey, and in 2003 111 thousand hives means more than a produced 1616 tonnes of honey, which is evident that without a good queen there is no good honey production. Agriculture, fruits of vegetables, cannot survive without pollinators and we are witnessing that for early production we import bumblebees from the Netherlands I do not need to tell you how important this is in the production of fruits and vegetables in Croatia. The incentive is that beekeepers instead of producing bad nuts themselves, thus reducing the production of honey can in time change quality nuts and double the production of honey. This way, the queen of poor quality and older age produces worse communities and thus reduces the production of honey. The most important thing is to place everything at the highest level of expertise and include all relevant experts from all over Croatia. If we know honey's exporting 70% of what's all this? In particular, it should be noted that we cannot give incentives for queens for every queen who produces laica but should be controlled by every queen or society of the beekeepers of Croatia or should include some other institution experts and, above all, the Croatian cattle centre in Zagreb under whose control it has been done so far. By reintroducing the queen into the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, we would correct the injustices where the queen was expelled from the incentives. Professor Kezic and the Association of Bees of Croatia argues that 5 to 10% fit for bees in Croatia is currently used. Which means that in that part of the possibility are unlimited, through the cultivation of queens the most important thing we can have is an ecological quality that we can export. I stress that if an antibiotic is found in honey, there is no way we can take one kilo of honey to Europe, and that can only be achieved by healthy and well-produced nuts. Beekeepers who produce queens are elite beekeepers therefore, if we destroy it, we can hardly return to the production and export of honey and other bee products we talk about today, and it would be important to mention them and they are pollen, wax, propolis, poison and honey. The grey bee is our home breed, which we certainly need to protect not only for the preservation of our genetic material but also for the exports we achieve in the production of honey and other bee products. For the implementation of this Act, 700 thousand kuna should be provided in the first year, while in the second year of implementation, a million and 400 thousand kuna should be provided in order to return to the level of production from 2002. The funds are secured in the state budget. Because we expect the first reading to go to the second reading of this expenditure that we know we can't get in this year would happen next year and I think it could save the grey bee and beekeeping in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37816	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37817	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, the forestry of the water economy, ladies and gentlemen. Here is an opportunity to talk a few words about state aid in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, based on the application for amendments and additions to the same law. I must say that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the adoption of this Act more because it does not require a particular effort to satisfy the legal text itself, and it is already said for 2006 and beyond. In fact, if we remember that every experiment, and this was an experiment, I have to say literally, an attempt to call one breeding herd, the only one left without support, and here's a year's lack of state support or better said if it gets away with a good professional court, experts feel immediately on the economic basis of how that production falls. I have to remind those who do not know that it is not mass production, that it is targeted goods under the selection centre of production, it is approximately 40 producers who can deal with selection work and who could preserve the genetic potential of the Republic of Croatia in order to be one of the significant exporters and partners in Europe and the world. Namely, if we remember what kind of state we are, how much our diameter is, about 80 kilometers, and I can tell you that bees 15 to 20 km a day can easily cross without any effort from flower to flower that it actually passes from Hungary to Bosnia or somewhere else in Croatia, then if we do not preserve our genetic potential parent we are actually attacked from all sides and it is hard for us to keep this grey bee autocthon to remind us that all our autoctonic breeds are under care, especially the care of the Republic of Croatia. From now on, black pigs, to I don't know the Istrian cattle and all that. The order of size, already said by the promoters 700 or a million and 400 thousand kuna, it is nevertheless not important to be the Support Act in the way it is now proposed. I think we also have alternative options through a cattle selection centre that would do it in quality and work and control. And our proposal is for the Croatian Peasant Party not only to take this into account the Government now, let it be as a first reading and a future reserve if there is a new draft law on state aid, agriculture, forestry and fisheries. 'Cause I remind you, a rabbit runs in the woods or in the meadow, we're already getting along. The reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to me is so unserious that I simply cannot accept that we have not already started negotiations, we are trying to impose the support that the European Union has. I'm afraid of it. All analysts, economic and agricultural experts who are now dealing with the agricultural policy, are not growing by joining the European Union, but by falling on a unit of surfaces and the way the European Union subsidises production. Another thing is the preparation of Croatian agriculture borderally as much as it can get funds more in one way or another. But I also remind you that by entering the European Union, Poland has not had incentives and has now come under the support of the European Union only 10% in the first year of its level. The question is what treatment of the age of Croatian agriculture. If we have 300 or 307 or 8 euros now, the Secretary of State knows by the unit of the surface, on average I speak to the European Union, for when we enter in two, three years he thinks to cut it in half, in 10 years he puts it down to 75. I am talking about facts that give Croatian agriculture this way of thinking more support than less support with all the fences of our organization... of the production which is on low branches, and not of the spending of the means of purpose, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the condition is what it is. That's why the government should be careful when it's right now. We are still at a hypersensitive moment when Croatian agriculture should impose a plan for production where the state must be, it must be because there is no other factor, there must be a guarantee of the size of the production of the yield, the way in which the country must be produced all together. I assure you that if we're left behind for another two, three years, a trade lobby, an import lobby, and the state only on the side of this together, we're lucky for us. There's a line that needs to be introduced to us. There's already market orders, price policies, regular ransom, we don't have any guarantees, so we have amplitudes, those upside-down saws, tops of class up, hours down. That's inadmissible. So I suggest, let us not make hasty promises and adapt ourselves to the European Union, but rather try to take advantage of the time to arrange for this money that we have to say is insufficient but to make better use of it and benefit us. I remind you further, in this House, here I am fortunate to be three mandates, never supported any economic account. It was a political consensus and the agreement of all the political parties sitting there in one way or another whether one culture is encouraged or not, or another ten or five support is added to disrupting the parity of the cultures they need and do not need. I now deliberately do not engage in calculations that there are cultures that could be made on an income basis absolutely to Croatia that have no support. But it's for thinking of a new way and a new law of support. So the support in this present form that it is paid for and the peasants are given it also has a social character, it also has a market economic character, it also has a large political, major political influence. Only if we started talking about a culture and said that it didn't need support would we be politically divided so hard that the ruling and the opponents agree that or not, they don't have a single answer. That's why our suggestion of HSS, too, was to accept it as the first reading and suggest that it be the first reading. Let it be considered at the ministry and despite the government's response, let an alternative solution be found, not in a way that tells us an incentive that is not in Croatia at this time that cannot be introduced into the European Union. Forgive us, our negotiators, the art of negotiation will give us the right or make it as difficult for us as they are involved. It does not say anywhere, if it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and a genetically endangered population, this occasion, gray bees, that the European Union will not make an exception. Who says no? It's, it's stories for little kids because there are exceptions to all the choices that negotiators make, get exceptions. And I don't think we need that exception to fund it for us. A million or two million and the Republic of Croatia will find it to protect its population at this time is talking about a grey bee that we do not lose it, because clearly it is also as some economic category of honey, pollen, etc., interesting for us because at this time our honey is competing, our honey is export competitive and we have to place it. I wish that those figures that experts tell us about pasta that is not used in this way about the number of bees they might have, or about a branch that could be an alternative to wartime or some plant-based other production, that beekeeping starts to deal with more people, but then there should be one security. I just want to remind you that without bad intentions, it's not good to say that the incentives are increased, that we haven't increased the yields, that they don't give results. I assure you that there is no incentive, we would have a social rebellion in the village because the village was a tampon where all those who were out of work were returning, filling their suitcases, driving to the city, surviving and thus economically impoverishing the village but also satisfying themselves because they had nowhere else to settle their income. And that's why, as we talk about incentives, let the incentive remain in this part of the social measure until we find an alternative and, in other ways, we organize ourselves. Because organizing peasants is the hardest part of the job, whether they're slave producers, whether they get into cooperatives, or some other association, but without a planned state policy, it's hard for an individual to do it, one place or some kind of region itself and all that expensive. So here, let this be a contribution, an affirmative contribution that even this debate in one small segment is supported to think about it because it is important in all these events that are waiting for us and that we are coming to help all together to make it easier for us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37818	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Honorable representative Mato Stimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37819	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to start my own debate with the sentence that Kurt's colleague started. It is not clear why the law is the only incentive for queen bees to be left out, and for all other species of farmed animals there exists in the law. Not left out, but erased, removed. I think it would be a much better question. I thought we would get an answer from the promoters as to why this incentive was abolished in 2002 because the incentive was abolished in 2002 when the incentives for freshwater fishing were reduced that time and this incentive was lifted. It's about 30 queen producers. In 2002 we had 47,000 queens of production, in 2004 it had already dropped three times less, in 2003, twice less, 25 and 18. So in 2002, the beekeepers lost that incentive. The result can be seen immediately after that. However, the promoter does not say that. I'm asking who was the one who assessed in 2000 that this should be abolished, which were the reasons and asking the promoter who gave up his hands to end that incentive. I think that, in the proposal of this law, it was supposed to pass the law itself as a law, in any case, that we support one such initiative, because I'm saying it's a small number of producers, but the consequences of that are far, far greater. This proposal itself also shows that one more thing has not been said. It is seen from the production of honey in 2002, where it turns out that at 107 000 hives there were productions of 2060 tonnes. That means 19 kilos per hive, and we know that the production is 30 kilos per hive. So where is 30% of the honey produced in Croatia? In the gray market, and we all know it very well, because we have a chance to sell in slippers a kilo of honey for a hundred kunas, not to take it out for four dollars as much as the export price is now. So that's still, that's another problem that maybe should have been touched. I agree you need to protect the gray bee like an autochton. If we don't know anything about the problem we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina importing Iraqi nuts where crossover can occur, and we have genetic material to export to the future. So not only produce quality genetic material, but also increase resistance to diseases, which would be good anyway. It is not Mr Kolar's problem that the Government has responded because of the European Union we will not at this time. We've already had one intervention on this law and I don't think it would be good to intervene in the law every few months, if it's already said that by next fall we will have a law that will suffer much greater changes. So one quality because this existing one doesn't satisfy any more anyway. So we have this one announcement, and that's what the beekeeper's alliance agreed to, as far as I can remember. So if it isn't possible, this very direct model of funding that will come up with an agreement between each other that will also be good quality and improvement. But what's not in this debate today is forgotten when it's done. First we cancel something, then we show up as the lifeguards of one let's say 30, 40, it doesn't matter. God forbid there are more breeders, so that would be a lot easier. I really expected to hear from the promoter why it was made in 2002 when we saw all the indicators say that we have honey production in the rise, that we have a quality queen and then it's not how you say it is left out, but simply abolished, erased or gone. So that's the only answer I thought I'd get. I hope I get it later. Anyway, I support the initiative. I know that's the problem, but besides that, it's not about the big money, it's not about the big deal. I think that when the government prepares this law, it should support it not only when beekeepers and bees are concerned. There are other things that need to be solved. Thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37820	Thank you very much. Replica. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37821	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it was not deleted but transferred in 2002 to 2003 and all queen producers received their encouragement through the Croatian Selection Centre in 2003, but the first year of 2004 when it did not, it began to apply strictly the law and was no longer applied in a manner. I know there's her now, and the law has been passed, which is why it hasn't been applied. I think we skipped that phase and I was a participant of all that. But I know that in 2004, it was the first time the law was strictly applied and 3 acres and the nuts were thrown out and all that was expensive. But good. That was a provision, and there's nothing more to be said here. Well, we actually agree, and I've said it many times. The HSS is in any case to make it an alternative for the government to accept. It's either way, but it would be opportunized if they didn't accept it as of interest. I speak from the aspect of genetic potential and everything that goes on beyond the economic calculation, because it really doesn't endanger the nation whether it's economically justified or not. But it's very important for genetic potential, because we could suddenly lose a population of grey bees that is irreparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37822	Thank you. Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37823	Thank you very much. I'm glad my colleague Kolar and I agree, and I'm glad I heard that this 2002 solution was not a happy solution. So there's no reason to fight. Find a quality way in which we both agree that it is necessary. So maybe today's debate should have gone a little differently, so it would have been a better conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37824	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37825	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I just can't say no to this bill, but I can't accept it. But as the most famous Croatian citizen would say, I support this because he blows the government in the neck. Croatian agriculture is a very complex issue. We are talking about incentives, it is the most sensitive part in the Croatian economy because it is about living money. We passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Aid Act in Agriculture last year. With that law, we just patched up some holes. That's when I was talking and now I'm talking. We will not solve many things in Croatian agriculture until we bring a whole new way of support in agriculture and on a completely new basis. And these two billion kunas as much as we spend annually on support in agriculture, although these are small amounts of money compared to developed countries, it is in our terms a lot of money, but of course these money is not evenly distributed and, of course, in that agriculture and in that incentive, there is a big crime. Croatian agriculture is systematically being destroyed from 45th to today. But when I said what to do, I'll explain it now. Here, let's take from 2000 to 2003 the kind of support we had. They grew up all the time. But what did we support? Today, in Croatia, we support 43 cultures, which is unacceptable. Money is being wasted in every possible and impossible way. We are today the only country in Europe, and perhaps in a world that promotes livestock food. For example, those who have an understanding of agricultural production know that everywhere in the world, cattle are sold through cattle and sold in cattle through milk and dairy products. In 2000 we introduced corn in the first year, and in 2000 we had if I did not cheat 800 kuna per hectare, and every following year 1000 kuna. At that time, the same legal proposal was voted in favour of the position as the opposition. I was the only one against it. And now I'm pushing for it to be abolished, and in another way as an engine of agricultural production, and as it is everywhere in the world, it's cattle farming and we're encouraging livestock in another way, not doing this. I'll tell you the examples now, you're probably the ones who follow it a little better and you know it. For example, we're doing it now, but not as drastic as we've been doing for a few years, certain companies and individuals have reported several thousand acres of wheat. They wouldn't shine grains either, but that's what they got their support for. And by a hectare, the wheat was stimulated by 1650 kuna. Corn for 1050 kuna. I'll tell you one case. Those who were in the previous assembly know that. Then I asked the Prime Minister on two occasions, not the Minister of Resorship. For 2001, I first asked him how many sunflowers were sown in Croatia in 2001? He told me he didn't know. That he would answer me in writing. That's what I was looking for. He replied that in 2001 19 thousand and 500 hectares of sunflower were sown in Croatia. At the next "Current Hour", I asked him how much sunflower was in Croatia in 2001? He told me he didn't know what was logical, but he'd answer me in writing. That's what I wanted. In 2001, 26 thousand and 700 hectares were encouraged in Croatia. And the hectare was fueled by 2,000 and 250 kuna. It's Croatian agrarian's cancer. We have to stop doing that. We can encourage 10 cultures at the maximum today in the Croatian agrarian, and we can't do with the incentives, what counterpart Kolar used to say earlier, lead social policy. We can run social policy from the State budget another way. We must not forget that grandfather or that grandmother who has one or two cows or a few pigs or a couple of mornings of the country but simply need to round it up, and we can give them a certain social compensation per month, three months, half-yearly or yearly depending on how to charge the Croatian budget. In order for us to resolve this issue, we must and bring a strategy to develop agricultural production because we do not forget colleagues and colleagues are today the only country in Europe that does not have a strategy to develop agricultural production. We don't have a balance sheet. We don't have regionalization and regionalization of agricultural production. As long as it's not done by our agrarian, he can't go forward and he can't get a light. Why this law, this proposal by the CNS and the PGS, is as good as I just said earlier as the most famous Croatian citizen would say: "Smoking in the neck of the government". And I support it for you to smoke, but we can't partially pass this bill, but we have to bring it all the way. I'm going to say that again on one example. For example, 53% of agricultural production is produced in Slavonia and Baranja. At this point in Slavonia and Baranja, we have 32% of the plant production that we encourage, and you see absurdity. Only 8 to 10% we encourage livestock, and we know wherever there is no livestock production that there is no profitability in agricultural production. As far as encouraging honey, I'm absolutely up for it. Croatia has absolutely great opportunities in the production of honey, but we all know that again. I wouldn't want to attack now if it was smart in 2002 whether it was done or not? I personally hold it, but unfortunately, it turned out to be like usually with us, and it turns out that it wanted to get out of this way and go over the cattle selection center, and I support it even though I was a great critic of that government. But you can't shut up about what was good. But it was complicated, but, oh, my God. What's here is. We can encourage these queens in another way and the best example that it was not good was exactly what colleague Mato Šimac said because after that it was immediately halved. Because we know that the queens went 30 kunas per piece, and then that, twenty people made money, and other honey producers simply didn't benefit from it. And to conclude: Croatia needs a brand-new law on state aid in agriculture. To determine what we need to encourage, not to lead social policy through it. We can run social policy in another way and bring in four extremely important things, or 4 documents that I spoke about earlier, but now in the recapitulation to repeat them. This is: a strategy for the development of agricultural production, the balance of needs, regionalisation and ryonization and after that the aid law and even the way it will make sense, and this makes absolutely no sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37826	Thank you. The correction is alleged by the esteemed representative Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37827	I have to correct an esteemed colleague that other beekeepers are very useful from the production of queen bees. Not only these 40 queen producers, but also other beekeepers, because they get cheaper nuts with incentives and have more quality and higher, higher amounts of honey. So they all have, and you said your colleague didn't have any other honey producers. They benefit from the fact that bee queen producers don't have honey production because honey is spent on the production of nuts. And these other manufacturers are benefiting from not spending honey on nuts but buying nuts that, the queens that are encouraged and then coming to the benefit of all of us. ... Lapsus. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37828	Thank you very much. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37829	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honourable MPs. It was clear to us that in the debate on this particular problem, therefore, concrete production will be opened and debated on a complete agricultural policy and that if spoken and asked for an increase in incentives that whatever you say on this topic would sound unaffirmative. But as Government, as Ministry, we have a responsibility for the whole. So we have responsibility for the total system. We have responsibility for the entire state budget and for our budgetary opportunities. This year, we have increased the incentive of 120 million kunas because we are aware that this is the biggest contribution to the development and increase of agricultural production, but we are against the fact that this is an instrument of social policy than we are just trying to direct the quota policy and encourage those productions that are competitive, which are profitable and which will be able to compete in the open market of the European Union one day. When we talk about the whole of this area, then it means that we will consider all available models and see if the best solution is when it comes to indigenous breeds, indigenous varieties, and so on whether the best solution is a direct incentive, or whether we will deal with it through other indirect measures such as rural development measures, because precisely direct incentives will be quick to hit by the European Union when we enter one day, and all these indirect measures, indirect support will be able to remain in force and therefore need especially for these indigenous varieties and breeds to develop. So within the development of rural space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37830	Thank you. And final review. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37831	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank everyone who has given their support to this proposal. But it seems to me that a better chance of passing the bill would have been if we had proposed state incentives for the production of drones, not queens, because that would have been easier. Content matters when it's turned out to be written in the reasoning of the law. Why and who threw it out, I don't know or care, because it's our job here to find something that's not right to fix. And We leave the reckonings with history and the past to those who enjoy it. Are we helping government negotiators with Europe with this proposal? Yeah. Because they negotiate quotas, deadlines and exceptions. The adjustment deadlines in agriculture I assume will be the longest negotiated. Well, it's not all the same if the question of preserving the genetic material of the gray bee begins this calendar year and we can keep it until 2015. These are transitional periods and deadlines. And maybe that's exactly what the exception is because it's an indigenous species with genetic material. So look at the review given to us by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration two or three months ago by ten new members of the European Union, transitional periods, so deadlines in agriculture. Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic. So you'll find a transitional period or deadlines for genetic material up to 11 years have been negotiated. Eleven not the first year. We are helping government negotiators because there are professional arguments and under the pressure of Parliament, it must preserve what Croatia has. You're instructing us to wait for a complete solution. Okay. But when that whole solution comes in 2008, then you'll have to introduce protection and incentive for the Brazilian queen. The grey bees will no longer be because they will be threatened precisely because in our environment there is a large imports of material, genetic material that... it doesn't matter. You know we won't set up at the border of the network to prevent swarms and queens from flying. Are we going to have anything to protect in 2008? No, I don't. Maybe a Brazilian bee, gray no. And that's why I suggest we take care of it now. Let's take care of it now. And I remind you, economic experts claim that 10 thousand Euros, 750, 740 thousand kuna, should be invested for the opening of a job. In the small sector, it's cheaper. With these 700 thousand incentives in the first year. In the next year, we did not propose to apply the law in this calendar year, making sure that the budget was passed, but for the next calendar year. 25 manufacturers of queen growers, 25 beekeepers who do not produce honey and have no profit from honey but from the queen. We have 25 least jobs with the smallest investment, encouraging sorry, not investing, they, the state, would make the least of their investments work. I also understand the government's fear that the Brussels observers could criticise this approach so that at the last minute we fix something before the negotiations open. But I also know and they know that the other side at the last minute often changes the rules, quotas, exceptions and deadlines because the data on our production and our capacities obviously have more accurate than we do, so they often surprise us. And finally, I urge you to vote for this proposal for a second reading. Maybe in the meantime, the government comes with its whole proposal, so we'll pull it out in a second reading if we get it in writing, maybe, I don't know. And I would like to thank you for the kind words that my colleague Lončar referred to in the bill. But as you said he was both in favour and against, I'm asking him not to vote in favour when voting with his left hand and his right hand against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-25-0.u37832	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Now we'd move on, we'd have one break by 16:30. They would then vote previously on a proposal to supplement the agenda to certain new points and then vote on the discussed agenda points. So I ask the MPs and the MPs to be at half past five, to supply the keys, and I think we can finish voting in half an hour, and to complete the agenda and on this and prepare ourselves for the solemn session. It's the 16th.06 o'clock. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on State support in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, P.Z. No. 285. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the Act on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS-PGS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The proposed conclusion adopted by 62 votes for, 5 abstentions and 29 against.
