ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39681	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me a few words, introductory words relating to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act. In the context of the reform of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia for the area of gas, along with the roof energy law and the gas market law in which gas supply was defined as energy activity, and given that gas supply was also defined as a communal activity under the Law on the Communist Economy, it proved necessary to regulate this activity more clearly. The Energy Act and the Gas Market Act have not addressed all issues relating to the implementation of the gas distribution activity as an energy activity and, in particular, following the entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy and the termination of the application of the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy in which certain issues of gas distribution activities have been regulated have become necessary to amend and supplement the Law on the gas market, it fully regulates the area of gas distribution activities. Therefore, the only reason for amending and supplementing the existing Gas Market Act is to fully and clearly regulate the activity of gas distribution. In particular, it was necessary to address a number of issues related to the award of a concession to carry out the gas distribution activity and most of the Law is dedicated to the issue. The existing Gas Market Act has not even regulated the question of the compensation paid by the buyer for joining the gas pipeline distribution system, which is now partially repaying the assets invested in the construction of the gas distribution system. Also, no provision of the Law on the municipal economy under which the compensation for joining the distribution system of the gas pipelines of the budget of the units of local self-government is intended to finance the construction of municipal infrastructure facilities. Therefore, in cases where gas distribution companies build a gas distribution system, the distribution system of the pipeline would not be able to pay for the connection to the gas pipeline distribution system to partially settle the costs of the construction of the system. Insufficiently normised implementation of the gas distribution activity resulted in some issues normally regulated at the level of the law by sublegal acts, the Gas Distribution Regulation. Now all the problems are being handled by this law. The law determines the necessary capacity of the gas pipeline distribution system that a specific distributor must have. The special provision will lay down transitional deadlines in which existing gas distributors will not be subject to the distribution system of the prescribed capacity on the day of entry into force of this Act. The aim of the introduction of this provision is to round up gas distribution because there are too many gas distribution companies today. About 38 of them. Some distribution companies distribute only a few million spatial metres of natural gas and the problem of their economic efficiency arises. The law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act also prescribes issues governed by the relevant regulation by the Minister responsible for Energy. It should be stressed that this law does not comply with the new EU Directive 2003/55. on general rules for the internal market in natural gas, including the management of underground gas storage, distribution and gas supply, terminal management for buried natural gas and other. The next step envisions the creation of a new gas market law to be considered in early 2006. The reasons why the law is passed by emergency procedure. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy has ceased to lay down provisions governing certain issues of the implementation of the earlier municipal activity of gas supply, which have not been governed by the Law on Energy and the Law on the gas market in the performance of the energy activity of the gas distribution. Therefore, due to the problems encountered in the daily work and polluted economic activities, it has acquired a legitimate state reason for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39682	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Sir... on behalf of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39683	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at its 30th session held on 29 June 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Gas Market with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 9 June 2005, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. In the discussion, the Committee members indicated that this Law serves the circulation of distributors and the elimination of small distributors. However, a certain amount of gas also means the supply of a certain quality of gas. This Law is a temporary solution that does not comply with the European Union guidelines until the new Gas Market Act, which was planned for 2006, is adopted. This law covers the interspace for distributors. Gas distribution networks must develop throughout the Republic of Croatia. The problem of resolution, the question of concession, will thus ensure the full supply. It is noted that small distributors should be monitored for safety, not for the amount of distribution. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act with the following amendment. Article 10.b(4) is amended as follows: "The concession for the development of the existing gas distribution system may be obtained at the request and gas distributor having sales of less than 10 million cubic metres of gas annually, where that is justified by the geographical reasons for the areas in which the environment and nature protection system is developed and/or economic development policy of that area, and where there is an economic justification. The explanation and quantity of gas distribution must not be exclusively a element of the concession, and the safety of the network must be the first priority".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39684	Thank you very much to the Committee's representative. Any other committees on behalf of the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In order to make it more clear to us why we are adopting this Law, we may need to keep ourselves a little bit longer at the current state of the gas economy. First, let's look at a little bit of what the natural gas sector is about, or what the gas economy is doing. First of all, it's the gas production that INA Naftaplin normally uses for now. Gas supply, for the time being INA, but let's remember that under the law other suppliers can do so, unfortunately due to technical conditions, I'm not sure it's going to be possible yet, because INA is going to allow another supplier so quickly to deliver gas under other conditions. In doing so, 60% are domestic sources and 40% of imports are from Russia, and then we have the transport of gas that is running the newly founded INA PLINACRO company that our consumers will know well because several years ago the price of gas has been increased because it has been introduced into the price and transport of gas, then the storage of INA gas again, and finally we come to the distribution of gas which, according to the data that I received from the Ministry of Economy according to Table 36 distributors and is being handled by a number 36 or 38 here. The total planned consumption for 2005 is a billion and 219 million cubic metres of gas, but from that distributor City gas station around a third spends about 420 million, followed by HEP gas d.o.o. Osijek 160 million cubic metres, thermo gas d.d. Varazdine with 100 million cubic metres of gas, and most others significantly less, and 10th below 10 million cubic metres of gas, you have 2, 3, 4 so you have small distributors. It should be said that most small distributors have been doing this job for a long time, let's remember when gasification in some parts of Croatia went to Slavonia and Zagorje, and that the proposal is very difficult to determine the line of survival in the gas market. The predicted minimum distribution of 15 million cubic metres of gas would remove 20 distributors from the market unless they are pushed into the proposed extension of the new article, so 10b. which also provides for specificities such as geographical reasons of the area, environmental protection and nature or economic development policies of that area. At that time, they can have an annual distribution of less than 10 million of cubic metres of gas, for most it will certainly be a satisfactory solution, however, a disappointment for large ones who would gladly take over small ones. Problems can be predicted if small distributors are selected by concessions and very often in these tenders there was foreign capital, so it is not easy to remove them from the market. Perhaps we should analyse technical and personnel equipment, the quality of network maintenance, the financial situation of companies with inspection findings, and so on. In general, more attention should be paid to the production of annual balance sheets to the issue of energy consent and it is necessary to speed up the adoption of sublegal acts, as some things are not sufficiently clarified. It is necessary to strengthen control over the realisation of gas economy activities, the particular problem is gas supply, we said only INA. Among 36 distributors there are certainly those who cannot increase development because they cannot get enough gas, clear energy consent gives them a limit without talking about new areas. It is precisely the confusing statements by the leaders INE Plinacro and Plinacroo in insufficient quantities of gas in winter months that reduce the interest of potential gas consumers to connect to the gas network, gas as an ecological fuel for sure to reduce the smog in cities, it is the most economically profitable but there must be security of supply. The current amendments and additions to the Law are necessary because the gas economy has so far been covered by several laws, so one law forbidding what the other allowed, interpretation was arbitrary and confusing especially for foreign investors, ours are already used to it. The proposal for amending and supplementing the gas market law should be adopted because it regulates the area so far uncovered or unclearly covered, which is primarily the way gas distribution is organised, concessions, then sets out the kind of concession, the way concessions are awarded, the content of the concession agreements, the criterion that can carry out gas distribution in view of the existing or future annual gas sales, and then it should be brought into line with the European directives, because we seem to be too strict here and there is a consumption of 15 million cubic metres. And finally organizing gas distribution in larger areas, here I can say since the first concession was in my municipality in Croatia in general, that... a gas company that received a concession and it now has 6 concessions in 4 counties. Which is certainly good, because normal people are satisfied, but what happens is our specific instrument, let's look at a little border, here we have a house home. The next house belongs to the Municipality of Samobor and they have no gas, this house before it has already 5 years of gas and, say, the company that covers part of the area of Samobor does not allow the neighbor to join the same network. It is similar with the city of Zagreb which did not allow this same company to cover Lučko 5 years ago but without a problem covered by Stupnik, Lučko for a certain 4, 5 years will not get gas, so there should be more tolerance, there is the possibility of these smaller concessions, which is actually good where I can finally give the citizens the initiative. The gas economy has long been in serious crisis, only INA predicts problems with gas imports for the winter period 2005/2006. In the year, it is necessary to speed up the definitely timely integration of the system with the Adriatic gas areas, also to refer to energy saving, when designing new facilities with maximum use of heat protection. The resolution of the accumulated problems of the gas economy of the Republic of Croatia is possible with a systematic approach we can divide it into two stages, the first is short term, and there is a need to manage demand well, the second is long-term meaning determining the situation and the proposal for a solution system-based solution from human resources to functional for all activities in the gas economy and this is a prerequisite for a long-term successful achievement of the project of gasification of the Republic of Croatia if we take all this with synergy effects. Good solutions to this law will not bring any more gas, but will definitely introduce order in the gas economy so far, so the HDZ Club supports this bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39686	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jakša Marasović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39687	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act, like this... this is what we do comes after a few months, after the law on the gas market has been passed. I guess that's when the government didn't know how to do the gas market, but in six months she learned, so I suggest these changes and additions, and finds the reasons why it's an emergency procedure. So, this law will have implications certainly on the final customer when it starts to apply as well as all other laws that regulate the matter relating to paying the costs of directing, monthly directorial costs, and that pays every population, they a little richer in more places, and then we'll see what the echo of that law is. The reasons for the adoption are a little strange because, in particular, it is said that this is not a harmonisation with the European Union. It seems to me that this law has come in a way that sanctions the existing situation which is very different in the territory of the Republic of Croatia where distributors are, as in Zagreb, municipal companies, say the City Gasman, which is just because but in other areas you have everything. You have private distributors, you have utility companies that aren't just their gas activities, they're water, they're clean. The picture is very different in Croatia and it is not good because when you deal with everything, you do not deal with anything. For this reason, it seems to me that one of the good parts of these laws is and the good intention of this law is to round up the system because that rounding if it comes to it it can produce certain results in terms of security of gas supply and efficiency of the system itself, and hence to a price which should be lower than that when anarchic is. And that's why I think that only this initiative should be supported and that it should be one of the specifics if you want the EU's gasification strategies, which must be clearly implemented through regulations and regulation. However, the bad side of this proposal is not resolving the issue of infrastructure ownership. We have a problem with complete infrastructure. The first thing we sold, we already made it nice. So, everything we've sold to HT has been funded by the citizens of this country through the payment of telephone connections and today, as you know, big money is being collected not only through dividends, but also through the way this system works, through maintenance, through purchases, so it's one of these wonderful examples of what we shouldn't do in the future. So I would ask and ask to stress that no concessionaire can own the infrastructure. The concessionary can get the right to manage the system and while doing so well can do so, when it does not work well then the property of the infrastructure must remain the property of the citizens of this country, local communities, regional communities and the state itself. So it's something that either accidentally or intentionally avoids being shown in all regulations that regulate matter in the end-case is always a citizen because he pays for it. On the other hand, I'd like to give you a few examples of how it kind of went over to this one just to say it the way it is to this law. There are probably some provisions on the law, from the Law on concessions and the municipal economy, so I'll read it to you. An emergency procedure shall be required for this amendment and supplementation proposal. The explanation, however, falls within the realm of humor. In fact, an emergency procedure is required because the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy has ceased to apply to provisions which have been settled on certain issues related to the distribution of the plan. The law was published in the National Journal 82/2004. The question arises as to why the government is aware of the problem that has arisen for more than half a year to refer this proposal to the procedure, more and more urgently. This argument cannot in any way be in line with the business provision on emergency procedure. Next, we'll be commenting on a few members. Article 3 provides for an amendment to Article 10 of the existing law and provides for an interesting solution. The headship of the district self-government unit can give consent to the headship of the second unit of the district self-government, so I don't know Zadar Sibenik and they have neither gas nor gas. To grant a concession to carry out gas distribution activities in part of its area. I've read this sentence several times, and I still don't fully understand what this solution is about. There's no reason to explain it, but it's only being found to suggest something like this. The problems that arise are multiple. If my understanding is true, County A gives consent to County B to grant concessions to a legal person who would distribute gas in the county area. So, the headship of my county allows another neighbouring county to grant concessions and determine the conditions of the team itself and the quality of service, the price, the model delivery in my county. Another problem is that County B would receive money from the award of concessions even though the distribution is done on the territory of the county. I would like to believe that the proposer has taken these issues into account for now purely theoretical problems and that he has foreseen a mechanism for resolving possible disputes and doubts, and in particular... the distribution of funds derived from the concession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be nice if, in the light of this proposal, they wrote something concrete and exceeded at least as far as this article is concerned. Article 4 of the proposal adds Article 10d. And 10 o'clock. which provide that the tender and request for concessions are published in the National Journal and at least another daily newspaper which is normally sold in the area of concession. The fact is that the bodies of the district self-government are being opened daily to the citizen. One way is for the regional self-government website, which is growing every day and which is increasingly high-quality. Taking into account the technological development of the information capability of the Republic of Croatia as well as the direction of development of the EU administrations, these articles should be complemented by a provision in style and by electronic means where possible. Why? You already have this through the Telecommunications Act. Article 10(9) provides that a public tender application should be accompanied by a conviction that no criminal proceedings have been initiated. This follows and the fact that a criminal proceedings are being initiated is sufficient to disqualify the offer. And once again, I remind you of the presence of innocence in criminal law. Such a provision could incentivise the inconvenience, complaints about the tender and potential material responsibility of the units of the regional self-government. For example, the application will be rejected for the purposes of a criminal proceedings against a member of the administration and a competitor. Not long thereafter, the same person is released from all charges, it is not difficult to imagine possible complications. At the risk of entering the sphere of speculation and the dark side of business, there is another example. Company A and B are competing for a concession. A member of company A shall submit a criminal application, may and may, anonymously, against a member of B. This leads to the initiation of criminal proceedings and disqualification of Company B despite a potentially more favourable offer. Consider, however, that I did some of this example and went toward extremes in order to demonstrate the inexcusability and illegality of this provision. No one is to blame until his judgment is found guilty. Article 10(2) of this proposal refers to a gas distributor carrying out the activity without a concession but from another valid legal basis. Such a distributor may continue to carry out its activities under the proposal if it fulfils the conditions laid down in this Act. It concerns the fact that distributors, gas distributors can carry out this activity, quote: "without concession or other valid legal basis". On what basis, then, do they carry out this activity? Who allows such legal entities to be engaged in the activity of gas distribution in the first place? Not to mention, this proposal opens the door wide to continue, to continue with such illegal activity. More than legalize her. In this respect, Article 3(3) of the same Article is unnecessary. There is no need for the Agency to establish the validity of a legal basis for distributors which do not have a concession when paragraph 2 says that the activity can also be carried out without concession or valid legal basis if the legal conditions are met. So I'd say it was about proposing this bill that it was a copyist, that it wasn't thinking about, the very essence of the problem. If the state or this government had neither a vision nor a scenario from which it would be regulated and I would say one more thing in the end. That's already been mentioned by fellow Markovanovic. It can happen in a very short period, two, three years, four years for us to have a highly developed pipeline network and a large number of those connected to that pipeline network, and there to be dead capital. Because gas consumption is growing in Croatia, and we are actually the problem of getting gas and gas supplies in Croatia either from the Adriatic, whether from Russia or from the eastern countries, we have not solved anyone in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39688	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I have to deny my colleague Marasovic because Croatian practice shows that large distributors are unfortunately not guarantees that gas supplies will be secured not only during the winter period but throughout the year. Let's just remember this but also over the past years that we've had problems both in Slavonski Brod where for our occasion there was a large gas distributor with over twenty million cubic meters sold... The gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us also remember Stubica and everything else where the government had to intervene. So it's completely incorrect, unfortunately. Practice's disabling us. The second thing is that the market will determine who will survive and who will not, and whether someone will be a large distributor that must be coerced by force or that someone must buy by force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39690	Thank you very much. Also the correction, Mr. Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39691	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to correct two allegations from Mr. Marasovic. The first is that the government passed a law on the gas market a few months ago, which is now changing which is not true. Here is the amendment of the gas market law adopted on 19 July 2001, so in the previous mandate both the government and the previous assembly of the Parliament. And another thing, Mr. Marasovic said he deliberately avoided saying that after the concession expires, the infrastructure remains with the state, the municipality, the city or the county, the one who already gives. The very essence of the concession is that the concessionaire finance, build, exploit and leave the concession provider with the infrastructure or the funds he has given at the end of the concession. Therefore, by the very name and the essence of the concession, this is understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39692	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's the SDP's Club of Representatives and Mr. Representative Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39693	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act. The law for which the applicant considers that, due to the braked economic activity, particularly justified reasons have been obtained and that the state is therefore to be adopted by an emergency procedure. In the light of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, the Proposer points out that this Law should fully regulate the activity of gas distribution, with a view to enabling the continuous operation and provision of gas distribution services and avoiding already announced problems by individual distributors. Of course, it's related to the state of the art. He also confirmed it for this speaker and Mr. Secretary of State. However, we of the SDP Club may also accept this argument that, immediately in the follow-up to this argument, the Government does not point out that this is only a temporary measure to address only one part of the problems related to this area and that a very fast-tracking ministry and government follow a large business of compliance with the new European Directive and 2003/55 on the general rules for the internal market of natural gas due to the abolition of the previous European Directive. Based on Directive 2003/55 whose provisions are rapidly opening the gas market, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to fully open the natural gas market to consumers in households by July 2007. Which suggests that the above-mentioned reasoning does not have any particular basis and that in the near future we will discuss this issue again then the truth within the framework of compliance with the laws of the European Union. Why has the Government not done so so far and offered us a truly complete one today, and with the European legislation, the harmonised law remains unclear, so we expect that during this debate we will get an answer to this as well as other questions, and in particular that the deadline that you, Mr. Secretary of State, have said will be the beginning of next year. We want to believe that this will indeed be so, and then, of course, we will discuss this very thoroughly again for many citizens of the Republic of Croatia of an important law. My predecessors said a lot, so I wouldn't repeat it, but it's indisputable from all of this, which is said to be the basic objective of this Law contained in the article, in 12 articles, creating assumptions for the circulation of gas distribution. So a significant reduction from the current 38 companies dealing with gas distribution and taking action that I would say would be known and recognised and particularly appropriate in Europe. According to the information I have in Germany, five such distributors, in Hungary too. Of course, the aim of this Law is to prepare and train larger distributors for a quality competition. It is unquestionable that gas distribution does not suffer improvisation and that, in addition to quality and complete services, it must also ensure the necessary economic acceptability for end-users, and that, in market conditions, it implies the maximum efficiency of any distributor. For these reasons, we from the SDP Club also accept this commitment by the Government, but at the same time, we draw attention to several important details that this Law did not include and, in our opinion, very well solved. First of all, we believe that we need to pay particular attention to the social component during this transitional period, because the law does not show what the price of the connection and the price of the gas is, in general, the way the price is formed, the control measures and the effective control of both the concession provider and the other institutions precisely because in market conditions, everything is paid by the final consumer, and in our opinion, the additional and ineffectiveness and incompetence under the quotes of the ability and resourcefulness of the distributor. We therefore have to specify who determines the price, who controls the implementation of the obligations undertaken by the distributor, the control of the distribution of funds, the inventory of spending, etc. Given the economic strength of our citizens, but also the existing fiscal potential of the unit of local self-government, and the almost symbolic concession fee to units of regional or regional self-government. We have to take care of this problem so that the concessionaire does not happen to increase prices and connections and gas as soon as possible to pay off the invested, so that as a result we have an absurd but possible situation, that we have a way of gasifying many units of local self-government with very few gas users. Of course, this should be added to the other dimension, which is the question of the sufficient quantities that the predecessors spoke of. We also keep an adequate obligation for distributors to deliver to the representative body of the concession provider, but also to the units of local self-government if those network owners are at least annual reports on the state of the network, gas consumption, supply stability, and other problems and activities related to consumer safety. So, one quality piece of information. This is how the jurisdiction and competence of the representative body or of the executive body of the unit of regional or regional self-government or county becomes marginal, it only calls for a tender and for nothing else it is not responsible for, or has no influence. In our court, we believe that a more quality solution should be made to the relationship between the owner of the network, in this case the most common unit of local self-government and the county that is the concession provider, to address more precisely the problem of obtaining the documents referred to in Article 10g. Article 3. where a potential distributor demonstrates that it has the right to use the gas pipeline distribution system by virtue of a lease agreement or other contract with the owner of the system for the reasons that the practice has confirmed a series of illogicalities and has often led to the inability to implement this problem. Namely, as I come from Brod-Posavina County, we, among the first to pass this law, have issued a concession for the selection of gas distributors and finally brought into the position that this whole large business ended in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, because they could not choose a distributor because of the inability to simply agree with the owners of the network. For this reason, I would also like to stress the need to make additional consideration. Since there is no legal obligation on the basis of which any owner of the distribution network would be obliged to conclude those contracts with any bidder involved in the tender procedure or anything may be forced. Most often it happens that the choice of distributors can be impressed, not based on the actual possibilities and quality of distributors, so it can happen what practice and confirms that unwanted and quality bidders are eliminated. Perhaps it would be better to make a solution if the tenderers offered a pre-negotiation obligation to conclude the main contract in the event of the selection as the best bidder later or to resolve the issue as previously the concessionr. In any event, major problems will be precisely in this relationship how to reconcile the interests of the owner, the day-to-day owner of the gas system and the concession provider on the other hand, because the article is very simply stated that, in addition to the public tender application, the bidder must submit documents proving that he is the owner of the distribution system or that he has the right to use the gas pipeline distribution system based on a lease contract or other contract with the system owner. It turns out that everyone who competes would have to bring in such a contract, which is already some great logic, and in particular there are no opportunities in life. I would not like to repeat what my colleague Marasovic said in particular. Maybe I'd just end up paying attention to article 10 o'clock. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: I think it's an oversight. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. This law. So I think it's about the legislator's intention, that it's about the representative body of the unit of the regional self-government, not the units of local self-government, so here's Mr. Secretary of State, if I understand this discrepancy correctly, I suggest you correct it in law. Let me get this straight. If we receive quality answers and if you respect our well-intentioned suggestions and suggestions from the SDP Club will in principle support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39694	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic, who he does not have, so the club loses the right to discuss this topic. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'd like to look very briefly at the problem of the gas market. In fact, the aim of this law is basically to arm gas distributors, and to that end, I have no objections. It is simply economically necessary to do so, because even distributors are economically stronger and can control costs easier than small distributors. But when I took a closer look at the amendment and the addition of this law, let me put some of the dilemmas that the law has led me to. The poor road is about municipal activity, and the second time it's about gas distribution as a commercial matter and there's a discrepancy between the legal definitions of the Law on municipal activities and the economy and the Gas Distribution Act. This would not be a problem yet if we were to install consumer protection elements in this Law. In the case of municipal activity, consumer protection must be done at national, city, municipality and county level. In the case of market activity, consumer protection is somewhat different and is governed by another law. Is this law settled, and the gas supply contract is a contract, how will it be depreciated, for example, by an individual consumer if it is not supplied with gas, and it is heated with gas. What are the consequences for the distributor? I didn't find that in the law. In addition, if the gas is the future of Croatia, and I think it is, the energy future of Croatia and it is likely that the application of the public-private partnership as an institute in the construction of the network will be very important. The law says almost explicitly after such a contract, infrastructure facilities must return to the public sector. Yesterday we discussed at the Croatian Party Club's proposal for a right to initiative and conclusions, which must be adopted by the Croatian Parliament when it comes to this Institute of Public-private Partnership, and they even replicated that public-private partnership does not mean the return of objects to the public sector. They replicated it yesterday. Today's Law explicitly requires and does not allow at all debate to be given to buildings after construction, whether they are in a concession or otherwise not returned to the public sector, that is also logical. Especially when it comes to communal activity. I'd like to point that out. So, I'm convinced that in this activity you're going to use this Institute of Public-private Partnership because it's just falling out here. The more the government's programme will make it clear that gasification will work rapidly, then it is clear that it needs to see what the period is to protect, I say, the standard of Croatian citizens. Because if you get to a concession distributor building a network he has quite economic logic until he has to return his investment. In what way will the standard of living user of the network and gas given in the concession be protected? This is, by my judgment, a lack in this Law because it is absolutely certain that, under this Law, it will be given into the construction of a distribution network. And what is it, I wanted to mention something else, what about the quality of the gas? I don't think I'm an expert here, but there are technical standards for the quality of gas as well as for the profession. This law doesn't talk about delivering gas. So the fundamental basis, the fundamental objective of the Law to round the distributors is indeed acceptable. It has economic logic, it has a development logic, it has a need in the plans of the Republic of Croatia, but we must not ignore the social component, and the gas will indeed be an important social need as energy. Therefore, we can talk about developmental, that it should be accepted, but also installable fuses for distributors, especially in the concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39696	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you see, this bill needs to be accepted because it's a necessary evil, but as he's been sent, he's actually testifying about one thing, something we might call a normative mess. He's actually patching holes. The hole was created last year when the Law on the Communal Economy changed and the provisions on gas distribution were abolished. Then it took six months to find out that there was a hole that needs to be patched up so that it could drive that road further. So when we talk about a normative disorder, then I mean that when the Law on the Communist Economy changed, it was necessary to detect all the implications of that amendment and then send parallel amendments to one and the other law into the procedure. So this law is not a systematic solution, it is such a necessary evil. In addition, in 2006, it means in 6 months we will have to pass a new law that will be in line with the European Union directives. This law should yet be some kind of systematic solution. What do we do now? And what else is there to see the government through our fingers and to accept these laws? It's going to have some implications for him, of course, that I don't think they're in the government or here in the Parliament, they're going to be invented to the end, what all the implications he can produce. He's going to remove a single number of distributors for sure. They're now heard, 36, 38, we don't even know if they're 36 or if they're 38. I wouldn't want to talk about whether they're too small or too small. There are fewer in other countries. I wonder what happens to consumers when they move away? What will happen during this transitional period? Will consumers be insured in gas supply or not? Or will they be left to the verse? You know, it's a huge lack of this law, which is what my colleague Leko was talking about, that there are no instruments, there are no consumer protection mechanisms. And the laws that are passed without taking care of the consequences they will have for the citizens, these laws are not good. We're going to have to correct them again, some kind of quick solutions again, by emergency procedure, to correct something that can appear, and now it's not made up. I think that, when it comes to gas supplies, we should also think seriously about protecting consumers in terms of gas prices. See what INA's doing? Let's see what he's doing with oil. The INA price of gasoline determines the retail price, according to the trend in oil prices in the Mediterranean. Since he's buying oil, that's logical, that's logical, but it's not the only oil INA has. INA also draws oil, it has its own findings in Croatia. Now, whose oil is that? Whose oil is that? It's the country's citizens' oil, it's the country's mineral wealth, and the INA charges citizens that oil as if it bought it in the Mediterranean. At this stage of savagery, oil prices increase, that INA at least extract that oil and store it as a stock reserve if prices on the world market go wild so that Croatia has some kind of stock reserve, a reserve of oil that it can't happen to run out of oil or that it pays it so expensively until prices are stabilised in any way, it would still make some sense. But this is how to sell their wealth to their citizens as if you bought it somewhere, it's an abuse of a monopoly position. Croatia has its own gas, gas supplies are bigger than oil, 60% domestic from domestic production, from domestic ore sources, so let's do one vision, I call on the government, when we already have so much gas, if this is an environmentally acceptable energy, most acceptable, to see by what year, by which methods, by whichever price every household in this country will have gas, to see how much supplies we have in the mineral wealth, to predict the trend in the price of that gas, why. So to protect these consumers, because that's what we do, not because we make laws now, but that we do, it only makes sense for us to do so, to work in the interests of these citizens. Therefore, I expect a vision from the government, and I expect a strategy and as little as possible, such rags from laws that may be necessary but do not serve the honor of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39698	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Dragutin Lesar's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39699	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The first thing I want to say when I read this bill amending the law can't be taken away from the impression that it was written in the good office of one of the great existing gas distributors. From a series of provisions written to him, but also concerns me with the reasoning given in writing and today, the reasons for any proceedings are given. In fact, when we changed the Law on the Communist Economy in Parliament, the government was then warned in the debate that by erasing gas distribution from the municipal economy, there was a legislative gap in the area and that this should have come parallel to the debate already at the time to see the integrity of the solution precisely in the distribution of the gas of this energy activity. And as I recall it was said that the bill had already been made, 6, 7 months ago and that it would immediately come into the parliamentary procedure, it was more than 6, 7 months ago, that it would only now, at the incentive of the gas distributor, get this bill to be considered. It seems to me that the government thought that we had changed that law by force past the government's will, and now we've obstructed and changed this law, so now they're begging us to do it anyway. What we change with this law is significant in relation to the citizens of this country. Gas network and gas distribution, whose gas network is in Croatia. The gas network was built by citizens either by self-delivery, or by paying the gas connection fee. And so far, these people who paid for years could at least indirectly decide on the terms of the new accession, the selection of distributors, and the price of gas in distribution, through municipal and city councils that were most often co-owners or 100% owners of these companies, who, through the Supervisory Board, could decide on all the commercial conditions that the distributor had to respect. By taking effect and implementing this Act, and this indirect decision by citizens disappears as before in fixed telephony and those hoping for large distribution investments, let them just look at how much Deutsche Telekom and T-COM have invested in fixed telephony in Croatia after they have taken over, and that same amount will be invested in the gas distribution network, probably within the next 5 years. So far, municipalities and cities have decided on the conditions of distribution, connections and all of this, now concessions are being announced and awarded by the county, and gas and connection prices are being determined by the distributor with the consent of HERE. It's not a nervous context, it's Hera, Bozica, Marriage and the help of women at birth, if it's a new marriage of citizens and distributors, I'm afraid it's going to be at the expense of the citizens because the fact that we're in agreement here, the distributor that's needed to correct the price of gas, or the cost of the connection, is saying that eventually his investment in future development of the network is not from his means, but from citizens' resources. The law provides for concessions for 15 to 30 years, if the conditions for building a new network are that it is a minimum of 20 years. And then the law provides for a series of provisions of strict, rigorous criteria for the implementation of competitions and about 2 carts of documents that the concessionary must submit to the competition in the future but then in Article 10e. and there was a brilliant solution that the existing distributors of the concession receive a request without competition, the current headship of the county which he gives for 15 to 30 years, without any conditions and obligations of that distributor that will receive concessions for 30 years and the competitions will not go until after 30 years, not now by the power of this law, with it in Article 10e. Somehow a strange solution that the county must publish in the National Journal a request for concessions, probably a call for applications, and not a request so at least from the manipulation should turn out to be, but I don't understand why and when that request can only show up by one single distributor, which is now existing, can't be 2, 3 requests, but only one. Therefore, it is one solution that under the law under the grains existing distributors receive legal concessions for 15 to 30 years, without competition and without any new investment conditions prescribed by law. Therefore, my amendment that such a concession is limited to 5 years so that everyone on the gas and gas distribution market can be prepared then for tender conditions, at least 5 and no more. When we get to article 10. Otherwise, this law had to use the entire Croatian alphabet to obtain the names of articles from a to the wrinkle it is intended that the concession fee is calculated in such a way that it amounts to the annual gross salary of employees in the county services dealing with gas distribution control. For example, in Međimurje County I can immediately declare that the concession fee in Međimurje will be 0 kuna, I don't know about others, but I know that the counties have so far had nothing with gas, with a gas network nothing, and at least neither the office nor the service officer is in charge of gas except the janitor who lights up central heating every morning when it's heated, which is on gas. The employee's gone, the gross salary's gone, the concession fee's zero. Is it our goal that those who make a profit on the market already, under existing conditions, to obtain a concession without a 30-year concession with a 0 kuna concession or still a concession should count against the amount of distributed gas. Four employees, with the kind of salary they are on the ground, are 380 thousand kunas about to be employed by 4. I have suggested that the concession is 1% on the amount of invoiced gas that that distributor sold in the last calendar year, and let's say 15 million cubics, which is a minimum of 1.97 per cubic, including VAT, is 300 thousand, which is a larger distribution, a larger concession. So when we have already come up with such a proposal to resolve such a proposal for a solution, let's allow regional self-government to at least make some income that is not dependent on the number of employees but on the amount of distributed gas in that market that they have... And finally, such concession approaches and privatising everything that was valuable in the municipal infrastructure, so from the telephony which was the highest price of payment when citizens joined the phones in due time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now gas and electricity have long been in state hands, the citizens of this country lost all their ownership of investment in municipal infrastructure and are now losing and indirectly affecting the decision on energy prices, so the gas and the prices of the connection they will have to pay under this model. If this is the only reason for the emergency procedure and the pressure of the distributor that we have to accept such a solution by the emergency procedure, I will not raise my hand for it especially if these amendments are not accepted but it would be good for the government to accept that this is a temporary solution by the end of the year, and by the end of the year to come to the new bill of law which concession rights differ in the place where they were created, these are municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39700	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39701	Dear Mr. President or Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary! The fact is that we have found ourselves in a legal vacuum that we simply have to resolve by amending and supplementing the gas market law because, as is said in the opening statement and later we heard in the debates. Therefore, amendments to the Law on the municipal economy have ceased to apply certain provisions that earlier public gas supply activity did not regulate in the new Law on Energy and the new law on the gas market, and therefore this legal vacuum should now simply be resolved and I think that we should accept that fact, mainly because in early 2006, we expect a new full law on the gas market, which will then harmonize and regulate all this together. Of course, this fact that remains in the Law on the municipal economy where the gas system connection fee is the income of units of local self-government and cannot be used as a co-financing instrument by those who will finance it must be harmonised and corrected. The very provision and intent to reduce the number of distributors can be good, but I think that the number of distributors does not have to mean automation and increase the quality of distribution. Where and where more important reliability is and where the quality of gas supply is and where more important, and I mean by weighting the importance of certain elements that this should be in the first place compared to the number or size of the distributor. The gas market law existed, so since 2001 it has made a change and it has regulated that the unit of regional self-government, so the county is making a decision on the concession, so it gives a concession. In the past, units of local self-government have done so, so cities and municipalities are based on the Law on the Communist Economy. Therefore, it remains but is important to emphasise, but Article 3 of new Article 10, where it is regulated that the heads of the two or more units of the regional self-government can jointly make a decision on the distribution in the common areas or that the headship of one unit may authorise the headship of the other unit of regional self-government, so that the county to carry out the concession procedure for part of its territory in my opinion is only theoretically possible, I fear that this will not happen anywhere in practice. I would like to comment on the selection process of concessionaires, or bodies that make appropriate decisions when calling and awarding concessions. I'll start at the end and what's said in the new article 10 o'clock. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. I guess this is about a printing mistake because it says units of local self-government, it would be cities and municipalities, and from the whole context of these amendments and the addition of laws and fundamental laws, it says that they are units of regional self-government, so I think this is where I need to correct this printing error. However, in the light of that Article 10h. It states that the decision to grant a concession shall be taken by the head office of the regional self-government unit. I don't think headship should make that decision. It's about big business and big investments. It is important projects for the county and I think decisions should be taken by representative bodies, so the county assembly and, of course, the procedure for the execution of tenders and the establishment of proposals for the representative body should be done by the head office of that unit. Also, in Article 10j. Paragraph 2 of the proposal is that the termination of the concession determines the headship of the regional self-government unit, I also think, in accordance with what I had previously said, that whoever makes the decision to grant the concession should then make a decision on the termination of the concession. So, I think both of them should be a representative body. In Article 10j, the following paragraph is added: a regulated level of concession fee. I would agree here in the debate with my colleague Lesar and his comment on what he said about determining the amount of compensation. I'd like to tie this article to what it says in Article 10g. where it is said that all the tenderers for the concession are obliged to contribute to their offer and that is under point 14 of the statement on the amount and method of payment of the concession fee. If the offerer has to make a statement on the level of concession fee he cannot first know how many employees there are in a single county dealing with gas problems. I think that wherever and wherever it is better, and even more justly, the concession fee would be linked to whether or not the concessionaire's gross or net profit or I mean the most just, with his total income achieved, which directly depends on the amount of gas distributed. So if in my area he distributes and sells more gas he'll pay a bigger amount in the budget of the local self-government unit. I think that it should probably not be possible to say this by law, but we hope that the new whole law will come next year and regulate transitional and final provisions because on the ground now we have the fact that our distributors are utility companies, that we have concessions somewhere, that these concessions mainly gave or almost exclusively units of local self-government, so cities and municipalities and in these transitional and final provisions should then say how, in what way, in which way, rights, rights and obligations from cities and municipalities move to the counties. It's the same thing to regulate for utility companies, of course. Finally, Article 4 of the existing old law, which says that the construction and maintenance of the gas transport system and the reliable economic transport of gas to the direct customer of the distributor, is responsible for the transport of gas to a moderate reduction station, and for the construction and maintenance of the gas distribution system, and for the reliable and economic distribution of gas to the buyer, is the responsibility of the distributor. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have the fact that we obviously do not have enough gas at our disposal especially in those peak months, so when gas consumption is the largest and subsequently, even distributors are unable to respond to the requirements given to them in paragraph 5 of this article. Therefore, they simply cannot obtain adequate amounts of gas from the gas supplier. As a result, the problem arises also in distribution, because those who have taken over concessions, who have assumed the obligation to build a gas network have neither motive nor reason to build and expand the gas network in individual settlements, neither households nor large consumers are able to guarantee quality and adequate supply throughout the season. Because they can't get adequate amounts of gas from their supplier either. I hope that this situation will be improved, not entirely resolved by the construction of the Pula-Karlovac Master's gas pipeline, which I hope will soon be completed, and that it will however allow for a better and more secure supply and supply of gas and for central Croatia, and as regards these potentially unresolved issues from the proposal for amending the law, I expect that they will be complemented and repaired in a new whole package of legislation that will regulate the gas market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39702	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39703	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Jelkovac said about gas distributors right now, he finally said that as a limiting factor in the development of certain distributors, there are also opportunities to get into local networks of certain quantities of gas. At the same time we put here as one of the conditions for someone to even get a concession, one of the conditions for extending the concession is the amount of gas they're going to sell. It's a limiting factor. We think that we should as one of the most important factors for granting concessions have that some distributor meets the technical and technological and security requirements that should be prescribed by law, and then on the basis of that, if it can survive on the market and with less gas sales, that is his problem. Let's pull the parallel we have right now in telecommunications, in fixed telephony, so anyone who meets certain legal requirements, who also gets a concession, pays the state what goes on to her can go into that kind of business. However, his problem is whether he will fail because he simply cannot meet other requirements and get a sufficient number of users. The same thing should be here. We all swore in the 1990s when we moved from one system to another that we would have a free market system. Here we limit it by quantities, because now we have distributors operating in each area. You have in certain counties where there are more distributors who have nowhere else to spread. Their resources, geographically, the number of potential users is limited. This is how we make someone swallow someone and what the market does. The market if someone is efficient and good can be with a smaller number means users with lower gas consumption, and we forget that technology, too, technology goes forward and that we need to save as much as possible these natural fuels, fossil fuels, and nobody takes that into account, but we just want to increase consumption until when and how much we can and talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39704	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39705	A colleague of Korenik falls into one contradiction, although I agree with him essentially, but here we are talking about a law on the gas market that regulates the concession and we cannot ask concessionaires to guarantee something that is in charge of someone third. We ourselves or myself in our counties if we go to call a concession tender, we guess we can either get or secure a transporter or supplier of an adequate amount of gas for that concessionaire to which we will give a concession in our area. However, I would not be able to blame him or pass on to him that ultimate responsibility, because he certainly cannot obtain either energy consent, nor an adequate amount of gas contract without a previously signed contract or without our intention on the expected gas consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39706	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39707	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is no secret that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act is not such a law as to mark standardisation with the regulations of European legislation that are yet to come to us, because it is a real shame, because there was plenty of time to do so and that would then be a real job that could then be forgiven by the Government for what took her so many months to find in one law what was necessary to amend with the fundamental amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy, i.e. the connection obligation or the inability of the user not to connect to the system unless there is a building permit. In such a way as it was already in discussion and was characterised by this law becomes once again a crossover law, and so the Government, from time to time, reacts to the crossover, and then can get the epithet of the "Governmental Government" even though it was promised the government to run vision and development and everything else and no one else remembers, who remembers these promises anymore. However, it seems useful in this law to round up gas distributors and that is something that is really necessary and that is commendable in this bill. However, I will point to one danger that may occur, and unless the Proposer amends, that is to say, Article 10, Article 3 of Article 10, which is amended and the second paragraph. No doubt there is no other situation, but that the concession to carry out the gas distribution activity gives a unit of regional, regional self-government i.e. The county has nothing to object to. However, the owners of the most common system are other units of local self-government, cities and municipalities that then end the contract with the distributor, or the concessionary. However, in practice situations have already occurred that the best bidder i.e. the one whose unit is the regional self-government, i.e. The county approved a concession as the best concessionary simply the owner of the system, the city refuses to conclude a final contract or give up on the previous one. It would therefore be necessary to react in the third article, Article 10(2), that the owner is then obliged with the selected concessionary to conclude or execute such a contract. Because in this way it's possible that they are self-willed, and that will is never of a mere whim. She's always tied to something that makes citizens suspicious of corruption. Therefore, if you have already responded to the ownership relationship entirely justified by the county's powers to grant concession because it is the only way to get out of this situation of depreciated distributors then you need to take a step forward and commit because it is a logical sequence if we want what you want to imagine with this bill and change to end so that these situations in practice do not happen. And I repeat, there's nothing else for citizens to create a picture of than that it's a possibility or a suspicion of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39708	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Sudec, a five-minute debate on behalf of the HSU Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39709	The gas market in the Republic of Croatia is characterized by some problems and this is the first problem of gas supply, so lack of supply routes. The second is a lack of storage capacity. Thirdly, there is no shift or desired shift in the realisation of the development plan for the construction and modernisation of the transport gas system, which was brought in 2002 to 2011 and the status of natural gas distributor is not resolved until the end. With these changes and additions, we only solve this fourth segment or fourth problem because these three should be fully reached for the natural gas market and perhaps wider on the energy market. That's why I expect this law to be just a temporary character. I guess that's what the Secretary of State will say and I'm also asking if there will be and when these transport systems will be built because for transport systems, certain funds are already being provided in the price, while direct distribution funds are being provided from the connection fee. Therefore, this distribution system is already provided in cash, or it is settled in the so-called so-called distribution system. a wholesale price. So I would ask nicely if the wholesale price had already been raised 20% this year because it is harmonised on the basis of the supplier's relationship to the formula that is based on the price of crude oil and petroleum products, then I ask the question of how much this will reflect on retail prices in direct, direct distribution. Is there not going to be an automatic break-in and does the government think of this, react and how? We will support this part because it is a concession that we think is too long or too long. We think that 10 years of concession is quite, quite enough, and as far as distributor size is concerned, I don't think they need them in size but in efficiency. They have their final accounts, they have their profits and should be according to efficiency. The one who's more efficient, who's cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39710	Thank you. And a five-minute debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39711	Thank you, Mr. President. I've come to the phone with a speech from a colleague about concessions. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. The offer comes in, there's good offers, there's bad offers, but the problem is why local self-governments think a little bit more about whether to give or not? Not all areas of the municipality, the city and the county are equally densely populated. There are areas that are less interesting to the concessionaire and then the concessionary conditioned that he would cover only an area that was interesting to him. That's what happened. This happened to us, however, until we found a concessionaire who actually covered the whole area. And I can say that here's 100%. As far as the whole law is concerned, I think he's gonna cover this, I believe temporarily, but he's gonna cover this gap pretty well, and that's true. What we all have to do together is to make INA somehow leave its capacity to transport and to others in order to compete in the purchase of gas because the gas on the world market has, but at this point it is not available to us. And what we really need to find is any concession, any way that will urgently connect the wells on the Adriatic to the existing gas system, the transport system. So it's either a master's system. I hope it works, but in my opinion it should definitely speed it up because we see that problems arise not only with gas but with other energies, and gas can solve a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39712	Thank you. And final review by State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39713	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's just a brief answer to Mrs. Anticevic. Unfortunately, a lot of holes have been left behind. We can't bury them all at once, so we've got some holes to bridge. As well as this law that must do so. So the whole thing, like I said at the beginning, was solved by this law on the gas market and the Law on the municipal economy. Unfortunately, there were obviously no agreed views of the eye, there were no implications for the area of gas manipulation and simply until the adoption of a new law means fully harmonised and which will address the problem of trade and distribution and gas supply in a comprehensive manner. We simply had to approach the offer of this esteemed Parliament to accept this Law in order to resolve some, such as the legal gaps that occurred during this period, and the fundamental goal meant to us was, as was the whole of this social i.e.. complete consumer orientation as such. We wanted to provide them with a reliable, safe and affordable means the most acceptable minimum price. So it's not burdened with some unnecessary costs like that. Now, I would not now enter the elements that we have chosen to achieve means these three fundamental objectives: reliability, security and priced, priced attractiveness for consumers. There have also been discussions here on the global energy strategy of Croatia. This government has this strategy and in, implements it according to the state of the field i.e. with the means available as such. As regards the level of concession mentioned in the debates, we sought practically because the concessionaire would certainly turn the level of the concession to the final consumer. We went minimally to make it a maximum of two salaries means an employee who will be employed in a body that gives concessions. It means regional administration means because we are, so someone has to control how the concessionist behaves. Who's going to control it than the one who gave the concession like that? And I believe that and I agree with you that there are irregularities and these grammatical errors, what we have said about printing errors that will surely be corrected as such but we think that, that this law is that. The proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act shall cover, at the moment, those shortcomings mean that they threaten this reliability and security of end-user supply. I'd just like to mention two more meanings of those ownership positions here. As for the transport of gas, the entire infrastructure is owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, owned by state property. And as for distribution networks, they are owned by units of local self-government and there are no dilemmas about ownership in all this. So, the state is tasked with developing a transport network and it seems that Croatia would, in addition to speaking about direction towards the Adriatic, it must be tied to European routes and fully networked as it is with electricity. And the INA mentioned here, the INA is the largest gas supplier, is also the manufacturer. It has no right, so this transport route can be purchased by law, which the law allows any who registered for that activity of gas trade. Here, I hope that the representatives of this House will appreciate and understand the moment in which we are also in need of regulation of this section regarding gas and will accept this Act at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So that we can ensure quality and secure supply of gas to our consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39714	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39715	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to defuse Mr. Secretary of State because apparently the government doesn't know enough about the situation on the ground. It is an incorrect claim that the local network is only owned by units of local self-government but also by certain distributors because, I don't know how, certain units of local self-government sold the distributors a local network. So, and another quote that I find incorrect. This Law is not reliable and will not be a guarantee that distribution, security of supply and synthetic security on the ground will be complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39716	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act. I ask Secretary of State Vladimir Vrankovic to be shown about the amendments. Amendment to one of the Legislative Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39718	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39719	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second. An amendment to the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39720	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39721	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third Economic, Development and Reconstruction Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39722	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39723	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39724	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39725	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fifth representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39726	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39727	It becomes an integral part of the law. The sixth representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39728	Overruled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39729	State Secretary Parliament refuses to vote by the amendment, and you are showing whether or not you accept it. You don't refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39730	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39731	We refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39732	Excuse me. It's unacceptable. The reason is that five years is technically and financially unacceptable for a concessionary. There is a possibility that the concessionary will give up because of such a deadline or that he will not invest in development, he will seek only profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39733	Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39734	Thank you very much. Sir, I won't take it back for sure. The Secretary of State accepted these two previous amendments because we're fixing the text of the law for him. That's why you owe at least coffee if you don't have anything else, and you reject the one that refers to the next fact. You reject the amendment that says that the concession for gas distribution at the call and request of a respected distributor cannot be given for, say, 30 years. You're saying economically invaluable. So let him propose to the county to call a tender immediately after the call, so he'll get to 30 years under the terms of the competition. It seems to me, don't be angry, but this time you succumbed to the distributor's lobby to the existing large ones who obviously prepared a trap for you on this, and the consequences will be paid by the citizens. I'm just giving you a temporary solution that you don't want to accept, and I'm telling you the first competition you'll have in 30 years. I'm asking for a vote anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39735	Please engage. We can vote. Score. 35 for, 10 abstentions, 57 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh also representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39736	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39737	It becomes an integral part of the law. I accept, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39738	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39739	Eighth also representing Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39740	Overruled. It's unacceptable. The legislator's wish is to subsequently cover only salaries for two employees working on the problem of gas distribution and not to give the regional administration the possibility to set an excessive concession in order not to unnecessarily increase the selling price of gas or lose the interest of concessionaires.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39741	Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39742	Mr. Secretary of State, if I understand correctly from this argument, you're ordering the county to employ two officers to monitor the concession's real gas distribution. So they have to hire two people otherwise there's no income from the concession. Do I understand you correctly? You said two county employees and that's the amount of their gross wages are the amount of concession. If the county doesn't have an employee's job, it doesn't even have a concession payment. Do I understand you, secretary?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39743	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39744	So I'm just saying how I understood. Zamor was president. Excuse me. So we have to say it. You will pass a law under which either manipulations will be done with the number of gross salaries employed or there will be no concession payment. Nowhere in Europe has we found the law to determine the amount of concession on gross salaries of imaginary employees. So the explanation you've given is neither rational nor legal at this point because you're entering the right of regional self-government and law. I'm asking for a vote, but by the way, I'm going to ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law, you need to know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39745	Okay. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vlado Jukic, Pero Kovacevic, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39746	Mr. President, since you failed to respond according to Article 214, please respond now because the Secretary of State said when the amendment was rejected that it was the wish of the legislator. Well, we're legislators, not legislators. So you were supposed to respond to article 214. ... That's just so it doesn't turn out that the government is a legislator, yet the Parliament is a legislator. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39747	I think I have a vision. It seems to me like I heard somewhere that I said earlier that I had turned my attention to the secretary of state that the government was being shown to accept or not to accept, without the Parliament deciding whether to refuse or not. ... And he didn't work? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, my God. Who is this amendment number eight of Dragutin Lesar's representatives? Please engage. We can vote. The result? 32 for, 9 abstentions, 57 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9th representative of Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39748	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39749	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 71 votes for, 11 abstentions and 21 against this Law, it was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We have more for today than the vote planned to try and complete the debate on - the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 316. We've accepted an emergency procedure in determining the agenda. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. I would like the Director of the State Intellectual Property Office, Željko Topić, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39751	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In the light of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the patent law, it should be pointed out that the patent law applies from 1 January 2004. And that, on the occasion of its adoption, it is assessed by domestic and independent foreign experts as modern, complete and consistent with the acquis of the European Union. The question then arises where the need to propose changes and additions to half of 2005. This is simply due to the continued development and progress of the International Legal Order in the field of intellectual property rights and this is to be expected by this Law and by all other laws in the field of intellectual property that we will have a relatively frequent opportunity to complement them with the latest developments in this area. In 2000, the Republic of Croatia signed a patent law treaty as a participant of the Diplomatic Conference at the World Intellectual Property Organisation, and the Law on Confirmation of this Treaty was adopted in 2004. The entry into force of this Treaty was not fixed either in time but was established or determined, depending on the dynamics of ratification by the signatories countries and it entered into force on 28 April this year. And as a consequence, the Republic of Croatia, as well as other signatories, must enter into its national legislation, i.e. the patent law, those provisions which did not previously stand there. Therefore, by including these provisions, the Law will contain the most modern standards relating to the way applications are applied in terms of mitigation so far very strictly set criteria. By easing these criteria, it shall not be lost to the quality of the procedure, and the application process shall be simplified to the applicant for the patent application itself. Following the provisions of the patent law Treaty, it is necessary to amend and supplement the segment relating to the fulfilment of formal conditions for the recognition of the date of application and the part relating to the mandatory representation of legal and natural persons who do not have a seat or residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. A new institute is also introduced to apply for the continuation of the procedure after the missing deadlines, for the taking of certain actions in the procedure before the Office, which would otherwise lead to the loss of the right to apply or to the right of the patent. I would not engage now in technical provisions, individual provisions of the law. Of course, I am available if there is a need for the questions of respected MPs to give clarifications. I just want to set myself up according to the law, so I apologize, therefore, to the Parliamentary Legislative Committee. Therefore, to underline that the reverse action of the provision referred to in Article 5 is required. It relates in fact to the addition of Article 41. The patent law. It is essentially a sauce which, when the patent law itself was adopted, remained an inaccurate reference to the article, to the whole of Article 5. The law, in fact, should have been added to paragraph 6 of that Article 5. It tried to correct it as a correction to the error, but it was the conclusion that it was not possible, i.e. that it had to go into amendments and additions to the Law. We didn't want to go in, run the legislative procedure for literally two words, the additions that make up literally two words. In particular, because the logic of the patent recognition process leaves a period of one and a half days within which patent applications are actually not possible, do not apply any conjecture. That is why it has been waited, therefore, that because of the simple, I would say, the economics and purpose of the whole legislation of the legislative procedure to give rise to the need for some other additional changes and additions. Here, Mr. President, I've been thinking so much at the beginning, and I'm available for...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39752	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Education, Science and Culture? I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39753	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director. As we have already heard, we already have a patent law that is in line with European Union legislation. So we have a modern law, and these changes are actually based on the entry into force of the patent law Treaty, which was concluded in Genoa in 2000. However, this year has only just come into force because it was ratified in January by the 10th signatories of the Treaty. So these changes actually only introduce even more modern and even better standards in patent law than they are and we meet our obligations under the contract. What's the most important thing here? The most important thing is that these changes actually take place in the favour of those who apply, who file patent applications in that segment where we have so far had one closed system of representation and it has been said that only representatives who are registered in the Register of the Office can represent in the proceedings before the Office of the Parties and the natural persons. Therefore, by amending the article, by amending the relevant article of the Law, we are now introducing that these parties and natural persons can also be represented in the procedure before the institution and for the precise and stated actions that are inside. I consider that the existence of the Law on Attorneyship should certainly be taken into account here, given that it is clearly a administrative procedure and, of course, the law on attorneyship prescribes who provides legal assistance in the administrative procedure and I think that the Proposer has time and has the time to react or to any amendment relating to the fact that this provision should be added to the fact that not only the advocates who are registered in the register can carry out and represent foreign natural and legal persons but also lawyers and lawyers can do so. Moreover, what is important is that it is possible here if a certain action is missed in the procedure itself, if the period for taking a certain action is missed, that in justified cases it can be allowed to take action and, of course, if the fees prescribed for that action are also paid, that this action can be respected even after the deadline. It is also going to mean the hand although the patent recognition process he is complex he is complex and of course such must and be to avoid any abuses in order to avoid any irregularities in this, however, the aim is to protect a certain right, however the aim is to protect a particular invention and therefore, with this one change goes to the hand of applicants of the application to take action and after that to exercise their right not to be exclusively administratively oriented. Also, the State Secretary himself here referred to the provision of Article 5 for which it is sought back, it is clear that it is the correction of the Law that was passed in 2003, and it turns out now that according to the applicable provisions of the law, a consensual patent for which a much simpler procedure for the recognition of that patent is prescribed, therefore we would not be in the process of recognising a concensual patent we do not have all that procedure of study that is long-term and expensive, here goes to one consensus of interested parties. According to the current provision, it is simply not possible to apply this, and since there is indeed, as far as we can from the reasons, a certain number of requests, a certain number of applications submitted for such concessional patents, we hold that it is justified to allow here and the feedback of the law. Therefore, the final Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Law, this Law brings additional standards and improves this Law, goes absolutely on hand and in favour of applicants applying for patents, as well as correcting some of the mistakes made in writing in 2003. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39754	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear representative Josip Vresk, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39755	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Director of the State Department, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club is ready to support the proposal of this law, provided that, in a certain sense, correction is made. to accept the amendment of counterpart Josipovic, who was obviously affected by both the subject and what Mr Bosnjakovic was talking about. In fact, it is evident that Article 1 of this law is in conflict with the law on attorneyship and in conflict with the law on representation in the field of intellectual property, as you know, this other Law has recently been in this House, and just by accepting the amendment one mistake has been corrected that I do not think should happen. I'm not saying if this is about the pressure of an engineering lobby or anyone, and I'm simply not interested in it, and if and if I don't care, but the fact is that lawyers who have often been in a negative context, unfortunately, mentioned in this House are authorized to represent both legal and physical persons and bodies with all the affairs of the judicial but administrative authorities. It's obvious that the Institute is the body of the administrative authority and I don't see any way for lawyers to be deprived of that right, I don't represent a legal lobby, I don't think it's on my mind, but there's a mistake that needs to be corrected, I hope that such a mistake has happened accidentally. On the other hand, I want to say one thing that this is obviously about legal work, it's not engineering work, it's not about making patents, it's about representing, so it's about legal work, so that's why we need to accept this amendment anyway, we're going to end up with one quality text and we're going to express trust in one profession. Well, not so long ago we were witnesses of everyone's pleasure to be liked in a populist way by voters before the election, so we attacked a barrister's tariff even though my day today is not clear for what reason. Lawyers and today I speak responsibly from this pay phone, are the only ones representing poor parties in the Republic of Croatia for the bad and in doing so their professional association is very much monitoring and punishing them, sanctioning any behavior that does not comply with the Code of Law ethics. And I really don't understand why he's attacking this honorable profession and why it's right here. But on that basis, I hope that Mr. Principal will be corrected. And yet another one we did not go with the amendment, although perhaps we should go, see good Article 8 was once a good practice of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, that he warned the representatives of the Government and the Government that when writing regulations when it comes to sublaws two things should be mentioned correctly, two things are important. First, the area to be regulated by a sublaw and its second exact name, here is quite the opposite, and it says that the word by the regulation, which is obviously well, will be replaced by the words of the regulations adopted under this Law. I should always suggest to the Proposer precisely that the area which will regulate the regulations of the sublaw should be regulated and which is exactly what the sublaw will be, noting that there are only three within the meaning of the Administration Act. Namely, why it's important, I'll tell you now why. Now I'm gonna start defending a little government. We like to attack the government here because of all the regulations with the legal force that the government makes when there are moments when the government must simply be a legislator, but we forget one other thing, if you follow the rules that our ministers make, you will see that our ministers have recently become legislators in the right sense of that word. THE rules, which are the most common act brought by the minister, not by the ministry, but by the head of the body of the state administration, often refer to matter that should at least be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament. And there is that danger, and that is why I also suggest to the Committee on Law, whose member I am, that we pay more attention to what the Government is doing, but also to the fact that certain ministers are prescribing rules. They become, in the right sense, few and legislators, I don't think such a practice is simply good. So, the Croatian Peasant Party Club is obviously going to accept the amendment, first of all, that the regulation be correct, that it is not contrary to at least two laws, to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39756	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leko, he has no right to speak. I know you've been coming, but I can't see, okay. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39757	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Director of the State Department, colleagues and colleagues! Very short. A colleague of Bošnjakovic and his colleague Vresk have said more or less what is important to this law. In fact, this part about representation and lawyers, I think it's just a slip that's about to be fixed, and I wouldn't give it any big strategic importance. Otherwise, my attention and I think the SDP Club always attracts all the laws relating to intellectual property because it is very important that just intellectual property be well arranged in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this sector, this area of action is something where Croatia has a perspective in the international game and it is therefore very important that the regulations governing the issue of intellectual property are in line with the European Union rules on the one hand, and that the other one be quality and up-to-date in relation to the domestic situation. I must say, in this large number of laws that we have and that we are not always satisfied with. We have very big remarks, even the grammatical nature that the state institute is one of those administrative bodies that broadcasts me to say in principle of quality regulation and I think that's something that should be commended and pointed out. I also think it is good for the regulations to be updated and that we have indeed more or less recent solutions in line with the European Union. What is important in this law is that it was reacting spotably to some flaw that was being subdued by nomotechnical nature on one side. Secondly, to open the area of patent application in a way favourable to applicants, and to adopt, in their favour, the criteria prescribed by international law on the one hand and on the other. Otherwise, I think it is also important to point out that Croatia is one of those countries that has accepted and included the largest number of these international instruments in its internal right. Not to be longer, here is the SDP Club, along with the proposal to accept this minor change, which removes the disagreement with the IPR Act on the one hand and the Law on Attorneyship on the other, accepts this law, supports it and in some way further motivates the State Institute to continue to monitor the field of intellectual property as it has so far and to react without delay with the change of regulations and given the internal situation in the Republic of Croatia and in view of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39758	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39759	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! Well, here is the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the patent law that should absolutely be supported, in the extreme line, for all of these reasons that colleagues spoke of in previous discussions. Allow me, however, in short lines to count several elements that obviously appear in these changes as a newspaper compared to the previous legal solution and absolutely the entire system of intellectual property that refers to patents to the system of arrangement gives by my assessment absolutely one additional quality. Therefore, in the first instance, it would point out as well as a new solution to these amendments and additions so as to indicate the actions of foreign natural and legal persons who are able to perform the same in front of the office on their own, so without a representative, indicating that the party is a legal and natural person and is still obliged to provide an address to which he will receive letters from the party to the Bureau. And now we're back to that representation problem again. I absolutely join my colleagues who have mentioned, in this sense, the Law on Attorneyship in terms of representation, in the process of achieving patent protection against the institution, and I think, or I join those considerations that in this regard, lawyers are absolutely as a service, as people who represent in the proceedings both before courts and other institutions, bodies, institutions and here, of course, as it was, as well as the debate absolutely opened up the possibility to play their legal role in our society. Secondly, solutions on the component of patent applications are considerably simplified, with the required novelty that setting the date of submission, so the application itself must contain a part that represents, in that sense, a principle and a description of the invention itself. Third, the deadline is prescribed. That period shall be two months from the end of the priority period during which an application for an institution can be submitted, and the time limits of circumstances in which the correction or addition of the application for recognition of the right of the championship may be lodged. I think it's necessary in this sense to present two more elements. The first is to specify or specify the inability to apply for the re-establishment of the right in the event of missing the deadline for taking actions relating to the application for the recognition of the right of the championship. And the next element, therefore, to indicate actions in the procedure before an office for which no request is allowed to continue the proceedings if they are not carried out within the prescribed time limits. However, what I would especially like to look back on was the talk or the talk in the discussions of the predecessors. Namely, I also see here this amendment or we find an amendment of course in procedural provisions when we talk about the procedure or the conduct of a complete examination procedure and by the basis of a consensus of all stakeholders in the process. Therefore, as an institute introduced in the patent law which was, of course, introduced into the law itself and in order to speed up the procedure in which the full examination was delayed or permanently omitted by the simplification of the procedure itself and the acceleration and consumption of the procedure. Therefore, the Institute itself represents an advantage at the disposal of individuals or smaller economic operators whose cost of full examination really creates an obstacle that would prevent or even deter the intention of seeking patent protection. So, what do I want to emphasize? In order to maintain a legal solution in a given sense, the existing provision of Article 41 of the Law could indeed be concluded, i.e. interpreting that provision in a way that I also support these amendments and amendments to the patent law in this respect. As regards that part of the amendments proposed in respect of the correction and that, in a certain sense, the Committee on Legislatives could hear whether or not there was a question of whether it was purely retroactive, of course, provided for in Article 89. The constitution or it's about correcting the perceived, actually errors or failures in terms of the adoption of this first law. Of course, I tend to believe that this second situation is not only about the classical retroactiveity of the prescribed Article 89, i.e. the prohibition of the application of retroactiveness, it is not about this and I absolutely support not only the proposed text but also the reasoning and reasonings that have its foothold in the simplification of this process, in fact by allowing parties, in particular, in the context of a consensual, consensual patent to get to their own, as soon as possible, to their final line of rights in this procedure. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39760	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39761	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Director of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, colleagues and colleagues! I don't think it's a wasteful thing to repeat what almost all the speakers have said and pointed out that it's not even possible under the existing legislation to eliminate lawyers from patent law, so just as much of the right of representation as this bill does. And I don't know why they'd have that right and that exclusive right only those MPs registered in the Bureau's register. I don't want to say it explicitly here, but then there's an impression, one perception, that is, whenever we form a facility that has a really very specific role in society, then it closes and somehow cuts off from the whole system. So that's why we have a standard like this. It is something inadmissible, so, then, whether or not the Government has corrected it, accepted or not that amendment, it is certain that a stronger legal force is the law that allows it than the one that has that intention as perhaps a "legal specialis" in that it derogates it because I mean it from the point of view and legality and constitutionality is not possible, but it would still be useful to act in that sense and accept the amendment on the trail of what the speakers said. This is clear as to the formal side, therefore, from the point of view of legality and constitutionality, and not to mention the content of the aspect of both the place and the role of such a kind of proxies in all proceedings and then this institution. What seems also speculative to me and what's explained is on the trail of easing the formality of the enrolment I think it's useful in any case to welcome the speed, the expeditionivity, the simplification of the enrolment but this enrolment as well as the land-scribed enrolment must remain strictly formal enrolment. It's precisely the nature and nature of this enrolment and the content of what it's all about. So on this trail allow so broadly that in no procedure is it possible to continue the procedure of that applicant, the participants in a procedure that did not comply with norms and thus imperative norms to carry out one action that was required under the threat of losing the right to execute it, that this is the case, that the institute is suddenly indicating the follow-up of the procedure whenever it is possible to do so to that applicant and there is no objective deadline at all here. Subjective deadline that he can do this every time he completes the drop, missed shop within 2 months, but when he finds out about it. If there is no objective deadline, as far as I can see it is not clear that he is set here he can be reported daily and after decades that there he was only two months ago, or a month ago, to know of some failure, and then he does. That is right, it is the creation of one legal uncertainty for other competitors and potential applicants. Therefore, I do not think it is acceptable that all procedures in Croatia must finally take account of the respect and discipline of all participants, and in this way we introduce one non-discipline. And as far as I can see, it has happened to the institution itself because here, by recognition and by the motionor itself, there have been many cases, and there is a crowd not only in our courts but also in the procedures of every kind, and there is also a recognition for the registration of patents as is said in this proposal, in the explanation of this Law, and therefore something is also sought which is also speculative from the point of view of legality and constitutionality that the retroactiveness of this, these changes extend to all these procedures which are not completed and which are ongoing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39762	Thank you. And a respected representative, Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39763	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly refer to the adoption of this law. At first, I can say that I support the adoption of this Law primarily with the aim of simplifying its criteria for, therefore, obtaining, submitting and obtaining applications. I also support Mr Josipovic's amendment, which I hope will therefore, that he will be accepted to make the law as functional as possible. But that, but not to repeat myself because I support all the debates that were so far perhaps a little bit more to talk about the position itself, to take advantage of this opportunity, the position of the innovator. So those who create and report these patents in the Republic of Croatia. A meeting of the Association of Innovators of Međimurje County was held just a month ago, where they warned among other things about some of the problems they have in their functioning. They thus point out that, on various solemn and similar occasions, support for the innovators so that we can hear that innovations are a key driver of economic development and their proper recognition and evaluation and the creation of a stimulating environment for their commercialisation fall within the main tasks of the economic policy holder in particular in the light of the approximation of Croatia's European Union. So that sounds pretentious, and we're all witnessing that we're away from it. Or so it is pointed out that the management of new and improved, the introduction of new and improved technologies and products and services is a presumption of survival on the market and not only developed economies but also economies in transition as well as in which the Croatian economy belongs. So that's what we hear from one side. On the other hand, there were comments by the innovators themselves that they had great difficulties in, in that we could say in the first stage as to the patent application itself. As far as red tape is concerned, as regards the long-term patent recognition process and the costs it requires as well. Here I have a list of the basic costs of the patent recognition procedure. From the first point of the application for patent recognition, the second point of application for the examination of the conditions for the recognition of patents, the third point of publication of patents, the fourth point of publication of the patent file, the fifth point of issue of the instrument of recognised law and the sixth point of maintenance of the validity of patents and the consensual patent. The cost of this whole process, the procedure is 20 years from now for the patent 39,000 kuna and for maximum permanent protection of 6 thousand 260 kuna. It's what a special discount says here, but it doesn't matter to some innovators who go into the business themselves. The procedure itself is complicated and so are the funds that must be invested for them are quite large. So they highlight the need for greater involvement of the state itself through their budget, county, municipalities and so on, and the benefit should therefore be to, the benefit should be to all of us. For example, they can give an example of the Varazdin County, which formed the Agency a month ago, seems to me to support the innovators. They agreed, therefore, to form an office that employs several employees who can therefore provide basic legal assistance and can also rely on certain resources in the budget. I think that's what every county should have and it's a shame that some counties don't have it yet because we know it and Croatia is famous for having excellent innovators. Here's the latest information that tells us that Croatian innovators are on... At the World Innovation Exhibition in Pittsburgh, they won 17 medals of which 7 gold ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also information that the student of the Technical School "Ruđer Bosković" Kristijan Semric is second at the World Fair of Electrical Engineering, and also in my Međimurje County we have many gifted innovators. Here's the company Technix from the Lower King who won the annual prize last year for innovation. It's a mobile oil pump that will do us good to protect our environment. So, at that first stage, our innovators deserve special support, and what we still have left to connect these innovators to our economy. So when they make their patent, when that patent gets its number, etc. Then, unfortunately, they go around the companies themselves and offer their patents. I believe it's patents that could make a lot of money in the long run and pay back the money. Unfortunately, many such patents end up outside the Republic of Croatia. We thus sell what is most valuable to us, so we sell our brains out of Croatia where someone else will make money. However, this is also being warned by Croatian Innovators' associations. I hope that this will change as soon as possible and that the Republic of Croatia will therefore understand the meaning and value of our innovator and will encourage them from the very beginning, to connect them with our economy because this is one of the conditions for the faster development of our economy. So that's how much I was going to say that we're all engaged together, that it's not just going to stay on the legislation, so this is just one step to help as much as possible and activate our innovators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39764	Thank you very much. And final review of the director of the Institute of Intellectual Property. Zeljko Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39765	Thank you, Mr. President, I thank all the honourable MPs and MPs who had the will and strength to read these complicated provisions of our regulations. I thank you for your support, which is mostly expressed in the draft law, and I would like to immediately refer to the remarks made by most of the MPs. Indeed, this provision of Article 1 had no intention of determining who it was and who was not authorised to represent in the proceedings before the Bureau. This is governed by the Law on representation before the Institute, but we agree that it is possible to read the interpretation of this provision, because this is a law that is passed later in the time after that law, and therefore it is quite acceptable for us to also make this amendment to the honourable representative Josipovic and the comments that are. Therefore, it was definitely not an intensities to determine who was authorised to represent it before the Bureau, but rather to enable applicants not to have to engage representatives at all in specific situations and actions. So on behalf of the promoter, we can now determine that this amendment is quite acceptable to us. Likewise, the amendments proposed by the HDZ Representatives Club, which are of a technical nature and which are quite acceptable, therefore we do not have any objections to this on behalf of the motionor. The next thing I apologized, I didn't remember his name, he objected to Article 8 so that the word "lawman" was replaced by the words laid down under this law. I would still ask that formulation to remain. It is really appropriate that we are not in a situation that if possibly some sublegal act changes its name or changes under the legal act that we are in a position to change the law. So I think this formulation, the implementing regulation adopted under this law, is quite acceptable. As for the objections of the distinguished representative Anticevic, it is therefore a matter of benevolent provisions that actually create legal uncertainty. I don't think that they're based simply because all the other provisions of the law are very strict and very strict, very formally prescribing all the actions that need to be taken, and these formulations are actually direct formulations of the patent law Treaty. So we're actually taking them as such. We debated them during the treaty itself. And if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I would now take this opportunity to inform you and the esteemed councilmen that on July 7th a very significant jubilee is being completed. Namely, it is the 110th anniversary of the first Croatian patent law. On 7 July 1895, the joint Hungarian-Croatian Parliament adopted a legal article 37 on the benefits of inventions, and from that moment on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, we have a continuous protection of the invention by patent, which is one of the features of the regulated countries that places us in an exclusive club of countries that have 110 years on a high European or highest European and world level of patent protection. You and most respected MPs, I suppose, have already been invited to participate in this meeting where we will conveniently mark that day, and here I am using the occasion and now invite you. It will be in the building of the old National and University Library on July 7th, an appropriate gathering involving representatives of the Austrian and Hungarian institutions, representatives of the European Patent Organisation, the World Intellectual Property Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u39766	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. You heard a call from the principal. You also received written invitations for the 7th of July. We're as accurate as the Swiss watch. I'm interrupting the session now. It's 3:00 a.m. vote, so I'm calling again to take care of the keys. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the patent law. The debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Ivo Josipovic accepted the proposal. In accordance with Article 154. I am voting on the next conclusion of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patent law is particularly justified. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The conclusion was made by 92 for, 5 abstentions and 3 against. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patent law. We can get involved. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes for, 5 abstentions and 1 against, the Law amending and supplementing the patent law in the text was adopted, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41950	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament has established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Committee for Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections of the Croatian Parliament Radimir Cacic is hereby dismissed. Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain is elected president of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41951	Okay, that's it. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the proposal for this decision. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour, 4 abstentions were made the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41952	At the 27th session held on 1 July 2005, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision to elect the chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee. Ana Lovrin is elected president of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41953	For the president?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41954	For the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41955	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this decision. We can vote. The result? I find that, with 92 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed decision has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41956	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 27th session held on 1 July 2005 established a proposal for a decision to resolve the election of the vice-president of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. The vice-president of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Zvonimir Puljic, is being resolved. Krono Peronja is elected vice-president of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41957	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that, unanimously, with 92 votes, the proposed decision has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41958	At the 27th session held on 1 July 2005, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives. A member of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Zvonimir Puljic, is hereby dismissed. Krono Peronja is elected member of the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41959	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Please engage. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? The proposed decision was adopted with 91 votes for and 2 abstentions. Come on in, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41960	Thank you. At the 27th session held on 1 July 2005, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, Radimir Cacic, is hereby authorised. Zlatko Koračević is elected member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41961	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. You can vote. The result? I find that, with 90 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41962	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 27th session held on 1 July 2005 established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Maritime Transport and Connection of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Zvonimir Puljic, is hereby elected as a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41963	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. Score. With 89 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41964	At the 27th session held on 1 July 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. The duties of deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation Jozo Radoš are hereby resolved. Nikola Vuljanic is elected deputy member of the Croatian Parliament Assembly of the European Security and Cooperation Organisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41965	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. You can vote. Score. I find that with 89 votes for and 5 abstentions, the proposed decision is made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41966	At the 27th session held on 1 July 2005, the Committee for Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Assembly of the Union's High Level Representative, Draž Managic, is hereby dismissed. As a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Assembly, it is called Tamara Smokina.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41967	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 84 for and 5 abstentions, the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41968	At the 27th session held on 1 July 2005, the Committee for Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of representatives of the multi-level union, Nikolina Haralovic, is hereby dismissed. As a member of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly of the Union's High Level Representative, Mario Schvigir is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41969	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Score. You can vote, I'm sorry. Score. WITH 80 votes for and 7 abstentions, the proposed decision was taken. Thank you very much to the Presidents of the Selection and Appointing Committee. We no longer have to vote today. We have one proposal, on which we will carry out some consultations, a proposal from the vice president and representative of Ms Vesna Pusic. I interrupt the session, continue on Wednesday at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for a Law on State Officials, etc. We're going to elections and appointments. - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please be President of the Selection and Appointing Committee, Ms Nevenko Majdenic, to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41971	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee adopted unanimously the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament is elected Tomislav Tomic instead of Mate Štimec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41972	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the decision has been reached unanimously with 88 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41973	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005 on 12 July 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament is elected Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41974	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 88 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41975	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The duties of member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Šišljagic are hereby resolved. An Ana Lovrin is elected member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41976	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that 88 votes for a unanimous decision has been put forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41977	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The duties of member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Drmic are hereby resolved. Krono Peronja is elected member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41978	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that 88 votes for a unanimous decision has been put forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41979	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. A member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee is elected Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41980	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 88 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41981	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. Tomislav Tomic is elected member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41982	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 88 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41983	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament is elected Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41984	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that a unanimous decision has been made with 88 votes in favour and go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41985	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. The duties of member of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Drmic are hereby resolved. A member of the Board for the selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament is elected Marija Bajt.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41986	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 89 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41987	At the 28th session held on 12 July 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Committee for the National Prize of Technical Culture "Faust Vrančić". As a member of the Committee for the award of the State Prize of Technical Culture "Faust Vrančić" is named Ivanka Roksanić, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, instead of Katarina Fuček, who was suspended from office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41988	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the proposed decision was taken unanimously with 88 votes in favour and only in the end. We also have a proposal from the Government to appoint Professor Željko Švedla as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Luka Crnkovic. You've got it in the materials. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 89, there's 3 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41991	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The selection, appointment and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament were held at the 29th session held on 15 July 2005 following the debate and individual vote in accordance with Article 91(2) and Article 244. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Council to mention the area "Jasenovac". As a member of the council, the mention of the area "Jasenovac" is called Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-01-0.u41992	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please come in. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for, 7 abstentions and 5 against, the proposed decision was made. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work at the session of the Croatian Parliament. In order to make it easier to get on the bench, the purified agenda is divided. Let's discuss - Final proposal of the Civil Service Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 225 The proposer of the law is the Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'd like the Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, Zoran Piculjana, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
