ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31547	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives, here are three points of the State Statistics Institute. I will very briefly since it is about the programme of statistical activity in.../interrupt on tape/... we always adopt a program which is also years and the programme itself is finished. Then the activity statistics programme 2004. 2007 which is actually our important programme because we have brought it into line with the activities of the European Union, the statistics of the European Union. And a strategy for the development of Croatian statistics, which is our framework programme for future development by 2012. The programmes went through the Croatian government, through the boards of the Croatian Parliament where they were adopted and here they are today at the debate of the Croatian Parliament. I will be available to you on all matters related to these three documents. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31548	Thank you very much. Rapporteurs of the Committee on Law, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. A spacious arrangement and protection of the environment reporter, respected representative Marko Širac, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31549	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament at the 18th session of 25 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia 2004. - 20012. Proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2004 2007 and Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2004. The Committee considered the proposed acts as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, especially in the section relating to statistics on construction and environmental protection. On the acts in question, the Committee held a joint discussion. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the reasons why there was a delay in submitting the proposal. In the debate on the Strategy Proposal, it is proposed to address point 76. The proposal for a agriculture statistics strategy is renamed as follows. The statistics on agriculture and environmental protection since the above point provides for the development of environmental statistics as a strategic objective. In considering the proposal for an annual statistical survey implementation plan, the Committee recommended that data from administrative sources be used more in the development of the statistical survey implementation plan in the section relating to environmental statistics. For example. Water management. Environmental protection agencies, which are also obliged to collect on the basis of applicable legislation. It is also proposed to change the name of the annual statistical survey under the regular 17th year in 2005. Incineration, composting and waste disposal by changing the name to waste management would be more comprehensive. In the indication of statistical surveys under regular number 12 and 13 of the annual report on protected areas under 1st and the red list of plant and animal species, the applicant shall correct the name of the Ministry of Culture, and shall also indicate in the manner of data collection by the State Nature Protection Office. In addition to the introduction of the Environmental Protection Act, the number 128/9 should be added. Following the discussion, the Committee is unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament to conduct a joint discussion in the proposals of the act and to adopt the following acts individually. Strategy for developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia 2004. 2012 The programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2004 -2007. And the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31550	Thank you. Committee on Gender Equality, Honorary Representative Gordana Sobol, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31551	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 16th session, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament also discussed the proposal for a programme of statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2004 to 2007. The proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics from 2004 to 2012. In its debate, the Committee shall, of course, refer to those parts of the strategy proposal, which are closely related to Articles 17 and 36. Gender equality laws. The same applies to the programme of statistical activities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The law on gender equality is prescribed to show all statistics and information by sex. And Article 36 of the same law requires the obligation to comply with all the rules of gender equality within one year from the date of its entry into force. When it comes to the proposal for a statistical programme, the Committee has proposed 21 amendments in total. Of course I won't read them all now, but let me just especially highlight one of them. This is Amendment number 1 which refers to the proposal to add a new point to the establishment of an official statistics base on the Internet in point 13 and the infrastructure and services for the State Institute and Statistics. According to the strategy of developing official statistics, the dissemination of quality and reliable statistics is a fundamental part of its mission. The specific strategic objective is to establish a publicly available database on the Internet. In addition, the vision of the strategy determines that the Croatian statistical system should be user-oriented, and a recognizable source of reliable and timely statistics. It is therefore necessary to include the proposed changes in the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2004 and 2007 so as to indicate the possibility of the availability of data via the Internet. In this way, the consistency of the programme with the strategy is also achieved and allows for a wider availability of data to users. All other amendments from Amendment 2 to Amendment 21 relate to the fact that in all those areas where it is possible to show that all data are shown by sex. On the basis of the proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics, we also have a proposal for amendments, which is that in Chapter 7 of Chapter 7 of point 9. "regional statistics", adds a new chapter, which would read "natural statistics". Namely, gender statistics refer to statistics that reflect the reality of women and men in all spheres of life including all their relationships. Such statistics clearly indicate the degree of equality in society. It allows for a visible state of experience both women and men during all stages of the life cycle. The conduct of gender statistics enables the monitoring of the state of gender equality in the Republic of Croatia necessary for decision-making, measures and policy-making to achieve and equality. It is therefore necessary to compare data on women and men in all areas of social life. By entering the European Union, the Republic of Croatia undertakes to speed up the process of harmonising its official statistics system with statistics from the European Union which advocates showing all data on gender individuals and on continuous development and improvement of methodologies and indicators for gender equality evaluation. Birth statistics therefore include showing all statistics on individuals by sex, means analysing and showing all variables and gender characteristics as primary and overall classification categories, and reflecting all gender issues in statistical data. After the debates were held, the Committee on Gender Equality proposed to the Croatian Parliament, unanimously to adopt the proposal for a programme of statistical activities as well as a proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, of course with the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31552	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31553	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In a joint discussion on the Proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia since 2004-2012, the proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia since 2004-2007 and the Proposal for an annual implementation plan for 2004 I will say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club the most important elements on each proposal since this area is very important for the coming period of Croatia's entry into the European Union. As the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia is to join the European Union, above all, to improve the quality of life, so are the activities in preparation for making it as painless as possible to enter all areas, not to say decisively. Thus, the strategy for developing the official statistics of the Republic of Croatia by 2012 involves achieving full compliance between the two systems in order to allow quality comparison and data evaluation as a basis for other necessary decisions. The Croatian statistical system must enable all structures of society to see the right state of things in society, i.e. To give an objective picture based on facts. The media must have a quality basis for public information, scientists, analysts, researchers, availability and good data processing for their research, and the system must also be used in international data exchange with the possibility of comparison. From the vision set out in the Development Strategy proposal, we are undermining the establishment of a system of values on which future development of the system will be based, which are user orientation, quality of work, efficiency, development and improvement. The principles of the United Nations on which official statistics are based and these are the principle of relevance, impartiality, reliability, professional independence, rationality, consistency, public principle, confidentiality and public responsibility where each has a special weight and special value for the entire system. The Development Strategy proposal very clearly and transparently lists the main tasks of the Croatian statistical system for the next period, the collection and processing of data, the preservation of professional independence of the Croatian statistical system, the increase of public confidence in official statistics, international co-operation. All participants in the Croatian statistical system from statistical operators, data providers to users are also clearly listed, and a legal framework is indicated in which, in accordance with national and international needs, the system of official statistics will be developed and applied. In the proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia since 2004-2007, we have insight into the development objectives of official statistics, review of the main results of official statistics, review of the most important infrastructure and development activities and review of the total necessary resources from the state budget. The starting point of the proposal is the strategy for developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, and the mechanisms for monitoring user needs are statistical advisory committees that were first established in 2003 for 15 of those areas, working groups for the development of the strategy and for the development of the statistical activities programme and statistical advice from the Republic of Croatia. The material states that 78 different institutions are involved in the work of the Committee, thus improving the insight and potential for the extension of statistical products. The programme of statistical activities planned should certainly welcome the establishment of a statistical business register which should be the basis for research in business and other statistics, as well as the establishment of a register of agricultural holdings that should be the final result of that famous list of agricultural holdings around which big storms have been raised, and considerable state resources have been spent. We believe that only now will it be possible to obtain reliable and international harmonised data in order to develop our agriculture, and in accordance with this, to make the most qualitative decisions in terms of faster raising of standards. In addition to the essential need to standardise agricultural statistics, no small importance is given to other statistical areas such as: business statistics, foreign exchange statistics, social statistics, and macroeconomic statistics whose development objectives are specified in the material. Surely we can no longer view statistics as just part of a social field, for example The economy, we can't look at it staticly, because in the new circumstances and tasks in front of our country, it gets an increasingly dynamic role. Therefore, statistical operators must be trained to monitor dynamic changes in society, as we ourselves are witnessing the daily use of different statistical data in the daily press with special interest in monitoring the material status of the population, monitoring the living standard which is increasingly becoming a topic of everyday life, employment and unemployment is also at the highest peak of the interest of the Croatian public as well as a number of other areas. All these three documents held at the debate in the Assembly have their basis in the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia, which are the main entry into the European Union, and therefore the implementation of all preparatory activities in all areas of society from economic to social. Of course it all costs money. We also have an overview of the necessary resources from the state budget. But as I have already said, the need for planned development of official statistics in the Republic of Croatia is more than obvious because of domestic and international users in terms of achieving national goals. The Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal for a strategy and the development of official statistics from 2004 to 2012, the Proposal for a programme of statistical activities by 2007 and the Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for 2004 and proposes them to the Assembly for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31554	Thank you. SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. The club loses its word. SDP representative club, respected representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31555	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that Croatian official statistics in Croatian politics and in the Croatian economy have not even taken up the place they belong to. This is likely due to insufficient activity or tenacity of the conductors in the official statistical activity. However, the main reason lies in the fact that economic and social policy makers do not recognize its unequivocal significance. Our discussions would also be simpler and more reasoned if we used more data than official statistics and statistical analysis results, and the same discussions would be given to quality if our official statistics were more developed. The debate on any economic or social issue with insufficient and unverified data is, in fact, a debate on something we do not know enough and sooner or later, such a debate loses its credibility. Economic and social policies cannot be built or created without developed official statistics. The definition of each policy, and in particular the strategy, comes from the recording of the existing situation. Above the satisfaction of the existing situation, strategic, or political objectives are being implemented. On the road from the existing state to the target there are different obstacles, different restrictions. For each practical policy, the existing situation, obstacles, measures and instruments to change the existing situation and achieve objectives should be shown in quantitative terms, and all these quantitative indicators should be given official statistics, i.e. statistical analysis. In addition, it should be borne in mind that both society and the economy are complex systems. The system consists of a number of elements and even more relations between these elements, i.e. components of the system. The management of this system requires data not only aggregated data from total systems such as gross domestic product, total exports, imports, consumption but also data on each individual system element and data on links between system elements. The necessary condition for increasing the efficiency of management of the system is to obtain quantitative data on as few parts of the system as possible and their correct interpretation. It's again by definition of the task of statistics. As far as this approach applies in Croatia, each of us can judge for himself. My impression is that it doesn't apply as much as it could and much less as it should. In addition, the statistical system is an integral part or subsystem of the entire social economic system. Therefore, the strategy for the development of official statistics should be implemented or based on the social and economic development strategy of Croatia, of course by respecting all the rules of the statistical profession. The strategy for the development of official statistics which is not based on the strategy of overall social and economic development is, in fact, its own purpose. In such circumstances and programme of statistical activities for the next year or for the next few years, it will be difficult to achieve or difficult to achieve fully if, as well as the question for which it can be used, why are they intended if there is no general strategy. It's especially about statistical research that's been done for the first time. Without an economic social development strategy, official statistics can come into a situation where they produce data and research that no one needs without producing research that would be useful to anyone. In such a situation in reality, the statistical research programme is decided only by the Minister of Finance by a budgetary decision on the amount of funds they will grant for their activities. The funds will always be limited, and in such a case, statistical managers will limit themselves to existing research. The strategy of developing the official statistics of the Republic of Croatia and the programme of statistical activities, unfortunately, will be most affected by the process of accession to the European Union. Unfortunately, I say, because much more needs to be developed Croatian statistics that will enable us to get to know the lady and get to know ourselves and that official statistics give us the data needed to create a strategy for achieving the national objectives of course that includes the accession of the European Union. Croatia has much more goals than joining the European Union itself. In fact, it might be more correct to say that the accession of Croatia to the European Union is a measure in addition to other measures and instruments that Croatia also seeks to ensure a greater standard for its population. The adoption of European and international statistical standards is, in any case, necessary and very useful. However, it should be kept in mind that it is not enough. National statistics should be developed primarily in accordance with national needs. Statistics from the European Union, the United Nations, the IMF, etc. It is also designed for their needs to be seen from their positions and from their objectives of action the social and economic situation and movements in a particular country. When joining the European Union, Croatian official statistics should do two things. First, to harmonise the national statistical system with the European Union, if necessary for costs and other reasons, to organise the collection of statistics on the basis of which the effects of Croatia's accession to the European Union could be assessed on every economic sector, on every company, on every social group, on pensioners, workers, professors, etc. and for each individual. In addition, with such data, Croatian negotiators would have a stronger negotiating position. What is now certain, harmonisation, or harmonisation of the statistical system required by the European Union, will certainly be implemented and that is good. However, it is certain that we will run out of statistical research and analysis that would further improve the negotiating position of our negotiators. Without quality and modern statistical research, it is impossible to obtain a real picture of the state of society and the economy, and in particular not all the interdependences that govern these systems and the surrounding world are seen as necessary for quality social and economic policy. Basically statistics answer the question, who does what and with what means and with who and in exchange for what and what changes their condition. Out of the missing statistical research, which is necessary to see both the entire Croatian economic activities and all its parts and their interlinkages are the imput-output tables, i.e. the offer tables and the usage tables. Imput-output tables, and especially tables offers and uses have a double intention, statistical and analytical. They provide a framework for checking the consistency and accuracy of the definitions, classification and data on the flows of goods and services obtained from completely different statistical sources and presented in other statistical accounts. Statistics of certain activities, survey on household expenditure, investment statistics, external trade statistics, etc. In short, input-output tables are used to control the accuracy of data on other statistical accounts. The input-output tables make it easy to assess the effects of any measure of economic policy on the overall economy and on each part of it as an assessment of the effects of accession to the European Union. According to the 2004 annual plan proposal, Croatia will soon not get an input-output table and thus Croatian scientists, economic and social development strategy creators, but also negotiators with the European Union will be left without data to assess the effects of Croatian economic policy. I note that input-output tables were produced in the former state every two years in a situation of much weaker development of information equipment or information system. In addition, what are input-output tables for the total economy, and especially for the real sector of the economy, because they clearly show where goods and services come from, where they are produced, where they go, where they are spent, how much added value is created in each point of the economy, how the added value is distributed, how much taxes are paid, contributions to wages, etc. A similar function for the financial sector has financial transactions accounts. They show where surplus is created, and where the lack of financial resources and how financial resources are created and in what form. Is it cash, deposits, securities, loans, foreign direct investments, etc. As these financial assets collude through all the institutional sectors of society, between the state, households, businesses, banks, financial institutions, abroad, etc., and what channels are the slaughter of these financial resources, which are quality. And we won't have these bills as planned soon as possible. Without these accounts, economic policy makers do not have the right picture of the state of economic and social life and are very difficult to assess more precisely the effects of individual measures on economic and social life. That's why I'm here saying these two accounts get priority in statistical research in 2005. With this discussion, I would like to point out the urgency of positioning Croatian official statistics in that place in the Croatian system that should be held for further development of Croatia. In addition to these comments, the SDP Club supports the proposals for the statistical development of official, strategy for the development of official statistics, the proposal for a statistical activity programme by 2007 as well as the proposal for an annual plan, but also supports the amendments of the Committee on Gender Equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31556	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic, Club of HSS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31557	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, gentlemen. Well, at first I'll say that statistics as an extremely important segment, we'll all have to agree together we haven't devoted enough importance and what he was talking about and colleague Jurcic is evident that unfortunately the total statistics and her research ultimately depend on the finances. Sometimes that's why certain oversights happen and, I'd say, shortages. I think all of us together have to put the importance of statistics and the State Statistics Service in a particular priority. For all of us, and even in our discussions, it would be extremely good if sometimes, from those data that can be obtained in different places, we could still use the data of the State Statistics Institute, and many of the owners, primarily them, I think that such data is necessary. Because we sometimes do not have them, sometimes wrong decisions and wrong strategies are made, and they unfortunately lead to different delusions. Domestic statistics should in any event comply with European Union standards, i.e. it is necessary to strengthen agricultural statistics in accordance with the standards and methodology of the European Union. Statistics should provide all data in order to assess the situation in all areas of the country, and should also enable timely processing of comparable statistics. Unfortunately, we have examples, and from the questionnaires we had, that when we received questions from the EU, for example, which is the percentage of the total labour force in agriculture, unfortunately, it is answered that the data are not available. Croatia does not have that data and it is important to highlight it here and I agree that it is not only important whether we have our own data and whether they are all comparable to the European Union methodology, but it is extremely important for us to have certain data that we need and that we can develop our statistics, and then on the basis of it and branches in the economy. The law on official statistics was passed in June 2003. In the implementation of the Law, they shall be based on the provisions of Articles 25 and 27 and 31. The Croatian Parliament should bring in documents on official statistics. The adoption of the strategy is not set by a deadline, however, in accordance with Article 72. The law of the first programme of statistical activities of the State Statistics Institute was obliged to draw up by 31 December of the current year preceding the period to which the programme relates. The first annual implementation plan for the National Statistics Institute programme was required to be drawn up by 31 December of the current year for the following year. Therefore, the programme has been sent late, and it seems to me that the adoption of the 2004 Implementing Plan is, in my opinion, groundless. In accordance with the Law on Official Statistics, a strategy should be adopted which is the basis for drawing up a proposal for a programme, the annual implementation plan for each year representing the implementation of the programme. Regardless of, I would say, we are at the HSS Club to support in the first place this strategy which will certainly enable us to get domestic statistics in line with European Union standards by 2007 or 2009. Agriculture statistics, and trade statistics with abroad represent the most significant individual objectives set out in the strategy. It will enable the development of a national system, agri-monetary statistics in line with EU price and economic account requirements in agriculture and forestry. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement also enabled the European Union's financing and assistance through the CARDS programme, thus granting statistics technical assistance. In the negotiations on full membership in the European Union between the EU and the candidate countries, it attaches great importance to regional policy as an important segment of economic policy, i.e. meeting criteria that must be respected when establishing and developing regional statistics. In accordance with the government's plan to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the State Statistics Institute in cooperation with other state administration bodies was obliged to define and establish the titles of the territorial units of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the European statistical standard by November 2003. I think that the introduction of this part, as far as I've been able to see in the materials, we've had a shortened version here, we've got a certain proposal, I think that, and that proposal needs to be put on one broad debate because whether determining 5 regions in Croatia just for statistical purposes, and without determining, I would say, one broader context of these regions is enough. I think it's safe to argue because it might happen that by identifying these statistical regions we prejudge things, and we don't define them, for example, in the other respect. The introduction of the nomenclature into the Croatian statistical system introduces a European statistical standard for the collection and processing, the presentation of data at the level of spatial units for statistics as they exist in the statistical systems of the European Union. In this respect, regional statistics are particularly important, i.e. indicators, which will provide a basis for assessing the acceptability when running for assistance and structural funds of the European Union, which ensure the allocation of European Union funds intended for the development of individual spatial units. Of course, I am particularly emphasising that part, which means that we will have to when these institutions are established, I would say regional units and define certain things, because then we will need it to get funds from the EU's accession funds. Regional statistics here are currently covering the following economic areas. Regional accounts, social policy, agricultural statistics and, of course, other statistics. Regional accounts for agriculture continuous statistics, land use, plant production, regional data on livestock stock, communities as a survey of farm structure provide a concrete set of information for the illustration of agriculture in certain regions. Regional agricultural accounts provide basic data to determine the regional income of farms, and the detailed division of the final one this time explains the concentration of production and regional specialisation. I have to mention here a few sentences related to the 2003 agricultural list, although it is not directly listed here. The State Institute spent 2003 a list of agriculture. The methodology was fully in line with the Eurostat regulations and recommendations, the Agricultural List Act, adopted for the implementation of the list was also harmonised with the European Union legislation. The plates were made, and I think it's definitely one big job. Because the agricultural list was carried out on its own for the first time in over 40 years. The list provides for the start of the transformation of agricultural statistics, which is significant from national and international aspects. The purpose of the list is to establish, establish an initial register of agricultural holdings in accordance with the structure and definitions of the European Union. Establishing a new reliable framework for agricultural research, sample selection, collection method in line with European Union recommendations and national resources. Perhaps I should mention the problem that I said at the outset, in some ways, I can illustrate it here, and it's certainly about the finances again. Unfortunately, in 2004, no funds could be provided to assess plant production for family farms, and therefore there was an inability to have data on the yields of early and late crops, fruit and grapes for family farms that produce 80% of those productions. The studies were carried out only partially, and we think it's one big problem, because one continuity of the long-term series has been interrupted, and we know that with 20% of the sample means only with so-called. the social sector or legal entities cannot assess this production. I think we're certainly going to miss this in all these negotiations that we're going to have, and we think that the lack of these funds, and I would say that not providing the funds should not be repeated at all, because if we don't have enough statistics, unfortunately we're going to have significant problems in important segments, including ours about certain estimates, balances, etc. in agriculture. The HSS Club will support this adoption of these documents, of course with me, I would say these remarks, which I hope will be respected, and then certainly provided the resources necessary for statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31558	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Shemso Tankovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31559	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club, and since we have already had the opportunity to have a small dialogue with the head man, the State Statistics Institute, on certain matters I will speak less. However, I will most likely point out that part of the statistics that members of national minorities particularly tang. It's just a little bit of a side-by-side dyspression. When I read these materials of the draft strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia in 2004, and these next two materials for a moment I looked at the daily newspaper to see where we are in the century. For a moment, I thought that we were indeed in the 19th century, not the 21st century. Because this spirit of suggestion and the way it is expressed is part of the statistics used in the 19th century. And yet we live in the 21st century, we inherit many shifts in statistics, we have modern-day statisticians who think about statistics in a way that is immeasurable in the 21st century. I spoke to a colleague of mine this morning who doctored statistics in America. And he warned me of a detail that good statisticians in the United States are receiving about half a million dollars. Good statisticians. This information has in some ways shown what statistics mean to everyone, by large corporations, by state authorities, etc. Unfortunately, we have a very different situation. A modern statistician will today be a corporation, a state, etc. offer data or relevant statistics for the following year and for the following years. And make sure that when we're in a position to correct real data with that, that there won't be any major deviations, that's modern statistics. And the classic one, she uses those techniques in which the hard part of the job will be collected, collected and presented material that will most often no longer benefit anyone. So I here in my discussion, I know all these materials in this assembly, when the moment of voting comes, and that's why I say that the representatives of the National Minority Club will also vote by conscience and by the obligations we have. And it is certain that this voting problem will not be fundamentally controversial. But it remains our responsibility, can we consider statistics in a different way? We can, and we need to. Another problem that I, as a member of the national minorities, would speak to this House, is, can we trust an institution called the State Statistics Institute and some indicators that it is raising? And he's already a colleague of Jurcic's... Another problem that I, as a member of the national minorities in this House, would have spoken to is whether we can trust an institution called the State Statistics Institute and some of the indicators that it gives. [[no switch]] And already, counterpart Jurcic and some other MPs have said what many of this data means to create a whole series of business decisions by governments that are related to these data. I have to say it myself right now. I don't trust you. I have no confidence in an institution where politics is above the profession, in which political decisions are linked to a whole series of indicators that we are substantiated with and with which we are dealing. I'll take as an illustration a list of the population in Croatia in 2001. At least for members of national minorities, the data is devastating. In 2001, the national minorities decreased by 56.4%, although the two national groups of Roma and Albanians increased significantly. Roma 41.3% and Albanians 25.3%. However, it remains unclear why members of some major minorities have fallen so drastically. As far as the Serbs are concerned, a new definition of the permanent population has been attached in some ways, and those of the Serb refugees at that time in 2001 did not find themselves here but remains questionable what happened to Bosniaks less than 52.3%, Slovenians who fell in 2001 compared to 41.1% or Montenegrins 49.3%, 32%. Now right before my date, my colleague Jenna Adam told me that Hungary is less than 25%, etc., etc. We have here really because statistics can't come in relatively short time, and that's ten years to such drastic shifts. Obviously, there's something going on and it happened when we have situations like this. And of course, as a member of the Bosniak minority and as a statisticist of interest, I entered those databases, and then I find 19 thousand 677 Bosniaks in the section "Other European Peoples" as Muslims. And we all know that colleagues speaking on behalf of the State Statistics Institute and myself and you and yourself that Muslims are one of the ethnicities that has been launched in the past state system, launched for members of the Bosnian people who have been deprived of their ethnic name on the censuses openly. The 48th year of the census, we had to write or commit, and about 80% of my people said we're not going to commit. Then she came in 53 years, so the percentage grew slightly, and 61st was increased again so that then authorities would realize that there is one ethnic group that doesn't want to be determined and that's part of the statistics. And that's when the conditioned problem was solved, but the name that doesn't reflect ethnicity was launched. A Muslim with a big "M". I don't know if you know what the word Muslim means. In translation, it means "religious." Now imagine, a nation of believers was launched just because one nation had to be denied the right to be who it is and only at the time of the greatest pogrom for members of my people in 1993 did we return our historical name to be surrounded by Sarajevo. And many documents between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina mention Bosniaks but for the State Statistics Institute still exist in the section "Other European Peoples" 19 thousand 677 Crypto of Bosniaks. I'm stressing how serious this is. In the "Other European Peoples" section, 95.03% are the Bosniaks, Muslims with a big "M" and no one cares why that is. Of course, members of my community were having conversations both before and after and after, and later with the heads of the State Statistics Institute, a lot of them were promised, and we finally know how it ended. And then it's hard to say that you have confidence in an institution called the State Statistics Institute. I stress, it's just one moment. How far they go they choose in the official statistics as my mother tongue will call it. And they say without any remorse it's not Bosnian, it's Bosniak, etc. And you see, there's a genealogy genealogy of ethnic groups from the former state statistical office. Here you are listening today in Serbia-Montenegro a rebel language appears, tomorrow it will be a shocking language, etc. Such games aim to ensure that members of national minorities, meaning in Serbia-Montenegro at the moment, are denied a perfectly legitimate presentation of the Croatian minority in a way that allows for destruction by showing various modes is important to reduce the number of Croatian minorities in Serbia-Montenegro. We used to have higher statistical schools in Croatia. There's no more today. We used to have Croatian statistical society in Croatia. I am proud, stressing that I was a member of this society. Since independence, practically, society no longer exists. I tried to activate that society on several occasions. Obviously, it doesn't suit anyone. Obviously, it is easier to agree on a presentation of some statistical programs, data, etc. but to leave the statistics to the experts. That's why I plead as much as possible from this high-ranking assembly place to start discussing statistics and thinking differently. Statistics must be left to the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31560	Thank you very much. There's been a debate over clubs. An individual debate. Honorable representative of Vice Vukov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31561	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Director, ladies and gentlemen. The importance of quality, updated, detailed and reliable statistical indicators is undeniable. In the process of making any decisions of long- or medium-term planning or simply problematizing certain issues of economic or social official statistics, it provides one firm foothold and a starting point for all our thinking. It is certainly absolutely unnecessary for me to stress this importance of official statistics in economic and economic contexts, it is well known and quite clear to everyone. I would like to draw your attention to this occasion, your attention to another area of social action in which so far it is very very little and quite superficially we can say, followed so far by the official statistical methodology of data collection and processing. It's about sports. The document called the strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia in 2004 in 2012 says the following quote. "The strategy for the development of official statistics sets long-term goals, the basis of the perceived situation and needs and predictable development. The accelerated development of certain fields of statistics or clearly demonstrated new needs for statistical indicators will be a condition for the revision of the development strategy within the period to which it relates." It's a finished quote. From this point on, I would like to highlight the long-term objectives and predictable development. I believe that these are the key consequences that need to come from a quality processing of statistical indicators. So one set of long-term targets based on predictable development. For a long time, working bodies have been working within the Ministry of Science of Education and Sports to prepare the text of the proposal for a new law on sport. I believe that this Sport Act, by the way, and many other laws should now be based on quality statistical and detailed statistical indicators and must provide one long-term projection of development. Unfortunately, laws could be written in that spirit, they must be based on quality or as I have already said to reliable statistics. Unfortunately, I must conclude that people who prepare the text of the proposal for a new law on sports have been denied reliable and quality statistical indicators. If someone peeks at the official statistical yearbook of the Republic of Croatia on sport, they will not find any quality or serious debate about sports of comparable data. Some like to say that Croatia has the status of a sports phenomenon and I agree with them. And we can freely say that Croatia can be perceived as a single sports nation in terms of the results of our top athletes and athletes. After all, the other day I witnessed, and I am glad to see the government’s interest and in this very tall body to monitor the competition of our top athletes. It is precisely because of our young children of future athletes and sports as a whole that we have to ask the question of how a serious projection of long-term or medium-term development can be carried out on the basis of existing statistics and official statistics of the Republic of Croatia on sports. One moment I thought well, maybe sport isn't so interesting, next to all these intense analyses and indicators although I think many of our wonderful... A lot of others. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But until I looked into the official national statistics of some other countries, such as And now, Australia and Great Britain and some others where comparable statistics on sport in the official statistical office of Croatia and these countries, so I can freely say comparableity is zero. He therefore wishes to appeal to the Director of the State Statistics Institute Mr. Gel and the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports on this occasion and from this place to make significant changes in the monitoring of statistical indicators in the field of sport. For example. At this point, no one has accurate data on the number of sports facilities. The sports halls of the outside football courts, their present state, their usability. Nor can anyone even say the percentage of the population of the Republic of Croatia in their spare time in exercise in sport. How often. In what space, how much ultimately spends his home budget. In this sense, we can perceive Croatia as a single country of a sports nation. We're not sure, we don't have accurate statistical indicators. I, when I tried to reach such indicators, then I only got an assessment of the Ministry that according to the criteria of the European Union in Croatia, the construction of sports facilities satisfies only about 30% but that is an assessment. We're not safe here. In Croatia, too, we must say that there is almost a taboo topic of income and the costs of sports clubs. The association also means and sources of funding transparency to display costs and so on. E precisely all of these listed serious world sports powers all of these follow and show in their official statistics. Here I have here a document commissioned by the European Commission for Education, Culture and Sports, named citizens of the European Union and a sport which, on some 60 pages, shows very closely a number of statistical indicators and results at European Union level. About the video, of course. The conclusion is very simple if they can and we need it. Our children our young people, our future athletes and sport in general need but deserve it. Finally, I would like to say that I support the adoption of the Strategy for the adoption of the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia 2004. – 2012 as well as a proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2004 to 2007 And a proposal for an annual implementation plan for 2004. But I will also stress the need for a serious review of how to collect and display sports data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31562	Thank you. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31563	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let this debate on an extremely important area of social action without which I would say, simply today it is no longer possible to function in any segment and any space of any social or personal activity. I may begin with one infidelity in statistics that is viewed in different sentences and one of them is, for example, that there is a lie, there is a big lie, there is an incredibly big lie and there is statistics. There is also a tendency to relativise statistical data that is reflected in taking what is right and in answering. However, it is quite clear that organised societies and orderly states cannot function unless they have established their statistical activities and statistical activities by their statistical institution on the principles which are undoubtedly highly professionally highly impartial, how relevant, transparent, reliable, and so on, everything that is stressed and in the principles set out by the United Nations when it comes to statistical research. I believe that the document of the strategy offered here and given to us at the debate was extremely well positioned by the key points of future development of statistical activity in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, I believe that it is absolutely acceptable and a mission and a vision that wants to be implemented and translated into a project that has also been given in the paper of the Statistical Research Plan in the coming years. Why is statistics so important and so important? It is simply that in times where we live without clear insight into mass phenomena, and life has become in some way a mass phenomenon can be difficult to judge and judge and make valid decisions for the future. I hope you don't find it uninteresting if I bring you a few less-known statistics from the world. For example, from the quality of life. 64% of people in the world today, I'm talking about world statistics, say they feel anxiety, depressed. In 87 not so long ago, one person out of 14 felt depressed, in 2004 one out of 7 people. In the past 45 years, suicide rates have increased by 60% and every 40 seconds in the world, one person kills himself. A few years ago, for the construction of, say, Boeing, 96 for the construction of Boeing or Boeing 767, it took 2 years, in 2004, three months. Today, the time to produce a new car is 15 hours, 15 hours. To construct a car in 94 took six years. 2004. 14 months. "Sony" launchs three new products every hour, let's say every five minutes "Disney." In this interesting world-level statistics, we will also find this information, for example, that in the 1960s, the father spoke to his children on average for 45 minutes, and today only 6 minutes. This certainly speaks of both the quality of life and family dysfunction that is globally natural and not only affecting individual societies. In 87 C.E., one of the 30 people told himself that he felt dissatisfied with his parents, and today he is one of four people. In the world today, the average duration of marriage is 7.2 years, this is the expected duration of marriage, 60% of all marriages will end in divorce. Or the incredible information to skip has a lot of interesting, three of the richest people in the United States have a fortune of $96.8 billion, and 48 of the poorest nations or states of the world have a fortune of $78.2 billion. When you look at the differences in poverty, the social differences, then those differences in 1820 were 3:1, let's say 73. 44-1, and now it's 106-1. Also, statistics will show that the amazing, amazing schedule of other natural and economic goods in the world, I won't bother you, but perhaps interesting information that globally at the global level of 2000, water and hygiene was spent $9 billion, that the health was spent on $13 billion, but for alcoholic beverages in Europe, $205 billion, for drugs, $600 million, and for military jobs and the military, therefore $980 billion, etc., etc. A whole series of data without which we could hardly actually bring about how this actually lives in the world and yes, and to express our famous Bicanic, who in 39 years seems to have published the book "How the People Lives", we at this point have no real knowledge of how this people actually live on the basis of a statistically clear and objective insight. I remember, in our term of office last government, unfortunately, we used terms and figures on the number of poor people in this country based on the findings and insights given to us by the World Bank. And this World Bank had its own criteria, its reasons that were not operational, and now we have welcomed that we have finally started to measure poverty in the way that it is much more appropriate for Croatian opportunities, defined and established both the relative and absolute limit of poverty, which is then the basis and basis for therefore taking certain activities. And I would like the final purpose that is mentioned here and explicitly as the main task of keeping the professional independence of the Croatian statistical system, therefore from politics and any political pressure, and by increasing public confidence in official statistics that that finding that I started the debate is made completely meaningless, that it is actually based on all efforts to mark this strategy that we have here, and that no one suspects, for example, the data or that if we did not find a way to better measure it that the basket of the product, the trade unions measured it in their own way, was 2004. 6 thousand 241 kuna, which is 9.74% higher than in December 2003, and is paid, to reduce the coverage of these costs by salary from 75 to 66%. It means 10% of Croats if judging by it is worse at the end of 2004 than in 2003. I don't want to abuse statistics either, but it's so much more important for us to have true and verifiable data, and I think this is a contribution to get a really such statistical system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31564	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31565	Mr. President, Mr. Director with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to point out once again in my individual debate, I would say the right opportunity and time in the future through the State Institute, i.e. through state statistics, to start introducing and birth statistics, i.e. to start tracking data in a way that would point to the real position of women and men in Croatian society. And when I say that, I especially mean areas relating to labour and employment, the areas of justice, decisions in the political, social and economic sphere and the area of education. How's that today? In the publications of the State Statistics Institute, it is true, most of the data has been processed and shown to the sex. However, the main problem arises when we want more detailed work within individual categories. For example, in the Annual Summary such as the 2004 statistical information in the employment category, there are expressed data on the active population, on the total staff, on average at the annual level, on the number of unemployed with gender division. Later, however, when these data are selected, there is no longer that gender difference. For example, in a section of statistics where the total number of employees is divided by sectors and activities there are only total data, but not in that number of employees of women and men in each of them. Also in that section of statistics that speaks about average salaries by activity, there is also no gender-based data, which would then show us whether there are real and how many differences in incomes between men and women, the same level of education within the same sector or activity. When we take the area of justice and say "criminal perpetrators or offenders" there are statistics by age, by type of offense and punishment, but not by sex within each category. There is only at the level of the total number of perpetrators. It is similar, for example, when you want to know something about the area of migration, whether internal or external, or, say, an area of education where there is no gender statistics at all, so it is not, for example, visible how many students we have in individual schools. There is, interestingly, gender statistics for people who have come out of the education system, i.e., have ended with education, but not for those who are still in the education process. Or if you take the pension information. As part of the publication of the Institute, there is information in the section on pensions on the total number of insurance companies and their gender division, but already in the next paragraph that speaks of the number of those receiving a certain type of pension, e.g. Old age, disabled, family, no such division. However, I want to say something now, that there are also data from some other sources that refer to exactly these areas that I have mentioned now and which, in fact, show that the position of women and men in different areas is particularly important when we talk about the field of work, employment, and then later on about pensions, that extremely significant differences exist. I believe that even at the level of state statistics, all this data should be shown to the sex because it seems to me that the state also determines whether or not it wants to reduce such differences. For example, if we take data from other sources, it is usually sources from data from different trade unions or data from different associations of citizens, the research they are doing. It is shown that, for example, disabled pensions that women receive are lower than those that men receive, and of the total number of pensioners, 39% are receiving disability pensions. There are also no data on the average pension in terms of gender, but therefore we find one data based on one study that the average age pension for approximately the same number of years of employment for women is 22% lower. Or when we talk about the work of men and women, for example, even in the same activity. So some others have shown that the trade sector, in mixed goods stores where women work mostly, has 36% lower wages than shop employees, e.g. motor vehicles and motorcycles where men work mostly. Or is it really coming to this, if there is a feminization of a profession like with us today a very great trend in the judiciary or to enlighten that the price of working in that profession falls. All I've just said is the data we've found from various other sources, and I don't see any reason why such data could not be obtained from the level of the State Statistics Office. There's something else I want to say in the end. Mr. Director, I don't know if you might have tried to put yourself in the position of an ordinary user and tried to access the data via the Internet from the State Department. So I'm talking about the availability of statistical data. In fact, we often need the data we want, and we want to get to them within a very short period of time, so then most of these days usually reach out to the Internet. I would like to warn you that data from the State Statistics Institute on the Institute's website is actually very poorly available, almost problematicly available because there are very big problems when trying to open certain documents and access data. You need great perseverance and multiple attempts, but the speed of data transmission itself is very low. So, here you are, I'm asking you, as director, to do something to make that data available on the Institute's website, so be at as high a level as possible. I think it is not irrelevant because your Office publications are actually the only source of official statistics in the Republic of Croatia, and on the Internet today we should be able to access them as quickly as possible. Finally, I would also like to make an observation as part of this strategy, i.e. the proposal for an annual implementation plan for 2004. I know this proposal, it's waiting here for a debate about a month or two, but I still think it would be much more effective if we could have talked here today about the Annual Implementation Plan, at least for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31566	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31567	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Not wanting to appear in a 10-minute debate, I just want to look back at one quote from my colleague Sobol and actually compare to another situation that I think is also important. I agree with my colleague Sobol when she says that all data should be kept by gender, i.e. by gender, and I also agree with the assumption that what goes to lower levels of statistics is more accurate. A similar situation when it comes to age statistics where there is an even greater mess because when we talk about young people, what is officially found in this country is that young people from 16 to 29 years of age, statistics on certain activities for young people are being conducted differently. Health care is from 15 to 25 years old, criminally divided into younger adults up to 21 and these others. Then you have special statistics, for example, employment from 20 to 206 years. I would just like to support the presentation of my colleague Sobol, and I would like to say that statistics have its own purpose, and so has fellow Vidovic, if she is operational and operational for us who have to make certain decisions. When we worked on the National Youth Action Programme, we faced that although there is a certain type of age statistics we could not in any way get a clear picture because simply these data are scattered according to various criteria. So in that sense, when it comes to this discriminatory, conditionally speaking, gender-unbound groups, as fellow Sobol said, that this story also includes age statistics because it's very important. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31568	Thank you very much. You could have applied for the debate because you actually used the replica to argue, not to respond to the quote, even though you mentioned it to your colleague Sobol. Let's not do that. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31569	I thank you, Mr. President, respected representatives and director of the State Statistics Service, respected colleagues and colleagues. My contribution to this debate is today particularly to points 7.8 of the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia. So, on macroeconomic statistics and at point 7.9, regional statistics. In recent years, awareness has increased in the role of the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. The signing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in October 2001 further strengthened activities in the area of regional development. We have recently been informed through the media that the State Statistics Institute has informed the Government that it has begun to work on the formation of statistical regions in the Republic of Croatia, which will be the basis for calculating which areas are entitled to European, to help the European Union. According to this information, five regions are proposed in the Republic of Croatia. According to my information, a central region has already been formed that will include Zagreb and the ring around it. In that region, gross social products per capita cross over or could exceed 75% of the European Union average, and the region would therefore not have the right to help develop. But three to four more regions are being prepared that will certainly be poorer and would run for EU funds. According to European Union standards, the region has between 800,000 and 3.5 million inhabitants. In the context of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia has decided to make a decision on the so-called "NAC2" are those regions of these sizes, bring them to the end of 2005. There are thus already initial proposals from Croatian authorities to form five "NAC2" regions, so-called "NAC" regions. North, central, west, south and east. This is a very important national issue for Croatia with very long-term consequences. The decision to divide the country into the "NAC2" region is more of a national interest than it is a technical or ideological issue. Such a decision may have significant conjecture in terms of compliance with the European, or flexibility to the European Structural Funds and the duration of their exploitation. The key issue to be considered in the context of a more "NAC" region is whether the central region, namely I come in front of VI. I have not seen exactly what this central region includes, whether it covers only Zagreb and the Zagreb ring or also includes Sisak-Moslavina County in front of which I am speaking at the moment. So is the central region with Zagreb the first one in the "NAC" proposal given to Eurostat being one given the fact that in the period of negotiation we can expect this region to exceed the threshold of 75% of the gross social product and thus loses the entire region the potential funds of pre-accession funds. I would ask my colleagues from the State Statistics Office to say something to us today in their final address, because I think that for the development of Sisak-Moslavina County and that part, I could use the whole central region as a very important issue, and I couldn't read it from this strategy. If this happens and reflects practically on the whole country because it will stop funding large infrastructure projects. These infrastructure projects, especially from environmental, environmental and environmental protection projects, etc. They're mostly carried out through several regions. So they are not only related to one region, and if this were to happen, if the GDP had crossed the 75% average of the central region in which Zagreb is, then infrastructure projects that connect through several regions would be at stake. According to such a scenario, while Zagreb would continue to attract new investments, increased economic activity, internal migration from poor parts of the country would continue as it is today. Here we are participants and the fact is that last year 83,000 inhabitants moved to Zagreb and we hope that if this migration does not stop, that is to say, slow down at the very least. I think this is an important issue both for Zagreb and for the entire regional development of Croatia. Despite the declaration of only one "NAC" region in Ireland, there were eight sub-regional segments of authorities set up to monitor and measure the flow and impact of the national development plan on all of Ireland. I think the model of Ireland is one of the good models that Croatia could see and perhaps in one similar or let's say an adequate way to apply to its country. Slovenia also kept the "NAC" region open throughout the negotiations and will address the issue as they say in 2005 and 2006 respectively. So Slovenia has already entered the European Union and has not yet decided whether it is one "NAC" region or whether it is more "NAC" region. Also when I took the materials related to the protocol, it is the regulation of the European Commission 1059/2003, when I looked at countries of the same size as Croatia, let's say I took an example of Austria, I saw that they were Vienna as the capital that certainly has a much larger GDP than the rest of the country, singled out in a special category by sharing the whole country as a region, but Vienna was excluded from it. It is also one of the models that can be accessed precisely because of decentralisation practically in the country. In terms of regional development, it has been opportunised to strengthen central government institutions and to consider forming a national agency for regional development, but it is also more important to build institutions at the level of counties and build a network of regional development agencies. I'd just like to ask you in your final address to some of these questions we get from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31570	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Mak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31571	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the State Statistics Office headed by Mr. Gel. I would say something in this united debate, of course, about the human rights and rights of national minorities and the reflection, about their reflection in statistics. I do not think official statistics follow all relevant indicators about the population or do not follow them properly, which in practice leads to problems because there is no complete and reliable data needed to monitor and implement certain areas of social life. As an example, I cite the statistical monitoring of the achievement and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the statistical monitoring of guaranteed rights of national minorities, and I do not think there are enough elements to monitor policy in these areas, which is very important because it is about the rights which are one of the foundations of the constitutional order and they are governed by legal regulations and the authorities of both state and local authorities in charge of law enforcement in that area are also established. In view of this, those bodies, within the scope of their water work, or should keep records containing data that are important for the monitoring of law enforcement. Therefore, official statistics could come from administrative sources, which means there is no need for specific statistical research which would then require specific financial resources that are always listed as a particular reason why something cannot be done. I also cite concrete examples where I think statistics should pay particular attention to that data. This is primarily the representation of members of national minorities in representative bodies at national and local level and of administrative and judicial authorities. This can be developed by minorities, by means of representative, administrative and judicial bodies. There is then data on the participation of members of national minorities in public life and local affairs management. We have a new constitutional category that is very important, and these are the councils of national minorities in local and regional self-government. None of us representatives of national minorities at this time can obtain relevant information as to how many of these councils exist at all. I'm not talking about that practical page right now about address books, names, etc. but on statistical data where and how much in which area these councils are established and what their numerical, statistical value and size are. So this applies to municipalities, cities and counties, and then normally it should follow that, at the state level, we see how much we have as one constitutional category of minority or local self-government. Then there are data on the exercise of the right of national minorities to public and official use of the language and letters of the national minority. Again by minorities, by individual authorities of state and local authorities and again collectively at the state level. Then there are data on the exercise of the right to education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, again by minorities, number of children, students involved in education and education, then data on the number of educational and educational institutions and data on forms of teaching that are practiced as there are a, b, c programmes and some other forms in which national minorities are involved. Then there are demographic data on each national minority both territorially from settlement data to state level, and structurally, education, employment and others. And social statistics. It exists to a certain extent. But we are stressing the need to establish this with true statistics and then, on the basis of these credible statistics, I am talking about the exercise of the rights of national minorities. Then there are also data on associations and institutions of national minorities. I also point out the need to establish appropriate links between statistics and justice in order to make data available on violations and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. These data exist, only they are likely not within the statistical research, recording programme and otherwise. I particularly stress the need to establish a full and reliable population register. I also stress this in relation to this hot topic of voter lists or lists where each election breaks down, and this is particularly important now before local elections and also before future parliamentary elections so that we can once get reliable voter lists, and they normally cannot exist without one credible statistical approach. And that the quality of democracy and the exercise of the rights of national minorities could also be achieved. What I just said concerns... all three documents, because they're connected to each other, and I was speaking here for an example of a development strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31572	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31573	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen. I would like to join what MP Mak said about the display of a statistical display, i.e. data on members of national minorities. We do not have what we should have in any of these three proposed documents, so neither in the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia from 2004 to 2012, which is an adequate demonstration of the achievement of human and minority rights. Chapter III. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and other laws, so Chapter III. Which speaks of the protection of human rights, including, of course, minority rights, but also of the rights of fellow Sobol, who were spoken of here by other colleagues and colleagues. Although data on this can simply be obtained from other sources and the State Statistics Office does not therefore have to provide any necessary, specific activities, or special resources, can be obtained from the local self-government unit, they can be obtained from other state authorities. And what fellow Mak was saying about the official use of language and letters of national minorities, about education and education, are all things that could be obtained from other institutions, from a state like the Ministry of Education, such as units of local self-government. And they are extremely important for the practice of exercising minority rights, important for the state, important for members of national minorities, and important for the culture of the achievement of human rights policy and the rights of national minorities. In that sense, I don't see any reason if something special doesn't cost, if it's already available, why wouldn't the State Statistics Service just team up and put the whole old one in an adequate way? The same can be said, of course, for the proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and 2007, this document does not provide for statistical monitoring that would allow the reporting of the implementation of the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed protection of human rights and rights, and fundamental freedoms, and the exercise of guaranteed rights of national minorities. Chapter 3.1 does not provide for the monitoring of the population and, with the rest, according to the characteristics of ethnicity. It is also not envisaged to monitor the representation of national minorities in representative bodies, administration bodies, judicial authorities, employment, employment in the population and other vital segments that are relevant. We today have the facts that we come up with in fragments, which are extremely important for among ethnic relations, for the achievement of fundamental constitutional rights, and if we had them as a whole presented in the data of the State Statistics Institute, then we wouldn't have to mention individual data, and for example today in Plitvice Lakes National Park, we have 700 employees, of which only four members of national minorities. That we have a retirement home in the Udbin municipality where we have 24, 25 employees, and none of which are members of the national minorities, although national minorities are majority population there. Thus, as some have already pointed out here, statistics are not only there to present some global data, but to present in the right sense living relationships in society. And I'm afraid with this idea of mission and vision, what I have to admit is it's interesting that a state institution has a mission and a vision. I thought missions and visions belonged to another kind of speech, another kind of role, but apparently it's one kind of language that penetrates the state institutions, even though it was present only in government organizations. I would also like to point out that the document of the third draft annual implementation plan in 2004 shows something that you probably found to Mr. Director, but something which, of course, you and the law as well as you and we are bound to answer. According to the transitional provisions of the Law, Article 72(2) states that the first annual implementation plan under the provisions of this Act is to be drawn up by 31 December of the current year for the following year. How the law came into force 4.7. In 2003, and since this is the first implementation plan, the applicant should give reasons for such a great delay in its adoption, as well as explanations of the purpose of the 2004 plan, which is adopted in 11 months 2004, i.e. in 11 months 2004. In that sense, he is late with these, he is late to display some elements and categories in relation to the statistical representation of the population, which was made for 1991, published, and for 2001 although it was an obligation to do so within 3 years unfortunately has not been made. In that sense, I think it is important, therefore, to treat not only the aspects of vision and mission but also the aspect of the responsibility of the state administration body, especially those responsible in this House. I could, of course, talk about another category, which is the category of display and the provisions of poverty. And one of the important things about the policy of the United Nations is, of course, curbing poverty and curbing illiteracy. The state of poverty in our country and the state of functional illiteracy in our country is alarming. The particular state of poverty is alarming in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia where daily income per capita in these areas is well below $8. Or people not only are state-dependent but they are humanitarianally dependent on the population. We unfortunately cannot see from our statistics such a state of affairs and I think that in this respect, except for these facts that you rightly point out that you promote entrepreneurship, development, etc. It should also take into account the fact that society must have knowledge of the scale of poverty it is currently in. So it's not just about the need for projections for what we're going to have, it's about dealing with the fact that we're dealing with what we're having right now. And today's situation in this regard is worrying. And also, here is spoken and fellow Mak seems to have mentioned me or someone else mentioned we are joining a decade of Roma and the degree of illiteracy within the Roma population in Croatia as well as the degree of functional illiteracy in the Republic of Croatia is worrying. Some people estimate that it reaches up to 40%. We don't have the right indicators of statistics on which we could see it and based on which we could face it but that is one problem. Functional illiteracy in a series of aspects of knowledge of foreign languages that we need to communicate with the environment. If not to your own population, then certain categories of the population are certain. From the possibility of using new means of literacy, etc. Therefore, these issues should be covered by the presentations, these issues should be covered by indicators and statistics, as well as by those questions I would once again like to state with the right of the prominent colleague Sobol, because I consider them of course human rights issues, as regards Chapter III. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia concerns equality between men and women who need and must be visible from statistical indicators in a much more precise way than with such a proposal. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31574	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government Mr. Zvonimir Mršić scheduled a session today at 14:00 in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. Mr. Gello, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31575	Mr. President, thank you! Honorable President, honourable MPs! Don't take this persuasive, but you've really given me the joy of it. For the first time, I was the director of the State Statistics Institute between 1991 and 1995, and now I am again three, four months ahead of the State Statistics Office. And for the first time in the Croatian Parliament, I am experiencing a really serious and desirable debate about a problem that is conditional on my life's call. I am still as dominant as you are the consumer of statistical products, but here I am on these two occasions and in the role of the producer of statistics, i.e. the responsible person of the Croatian statistics producer. I thank you for your attention, the documents you had before you. I thank you for your discussion and for most of the suggestions you made. I have followed closely and recorded your remarks, your opinions and your views on both state statistics, our Croatian statistics and the documents on the agenda today. So you will allow me to spend a few minutes first responding to a part of the discussion which essentially does not directly refer to the documents that were today to actually go through the resolution of the proposal and amendments to the very programmes that we have received from the board or from representatives of certain bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Croatian statistics will celebrate the 130th anniversary of existence on 18 February 2005. So in 13 days we will celebrate the first state law on Croatian statistics adopted by the Croatian Parliament of the time and confirmed by His Majesty, Croatian Emperor Francis Joseph. Croatian statistics again went on condition in their own work in 1991 when I led, when it was about as until then as a county statistical office today in Croatia. So until 1991. Since 1991, we can talk about the development of modern Croatian statistics in an independent Croatian state and it has been going through all phases, all the problems that existed or that our country has been going through. I remember in 1993 when we were supposed to get help through the PHARE programme for the development of statistics but unfortunately we didn't get it because my story about the fact that statistics are important to Croatia itself, as well as to the countries of the environment and primarily to the European Union, that this is not a job through which politics is painted or under political influence, but rather a professional job. However, we did not enter the PHARE programme simply because by punishing the state it was then statistics. Many things that I would very much like as a consumer of statistics that you yourself said to the consumer of statistical programs and statistical products would like to have here, unfortunately we still do not. I'm a demographic, and let's just say right now I look back at Mrs. Sobol's amendments how many times I've felt the problem in my work that I don't have published data, let's say by sex, for a number of groups of populations that I've been following. I was mad at that myself. Unfortunately, statistics are not only published by Croatia less than 1% of the indicator data from the total of those indicators collected. And one of the problems is that through the programme that statistics and the National Statistics Institute is working on and the framework that gives us the state statistics law that you adopted last year last summer, let's say the answer to the questions that we have also heard from representatives of national minorities from representatives of gender equality and others. Where the law says we have to protect individual data. We collect individual data. The sources of our data are three main areas. These are administrative registers or registers, unfortunately many of them in Croatia have statistics that could not affect the methodology of their work and data collection. So many of these administrative sources that we should be serving to produce statistical products are unusable because we have not given or used the opportunity for statistics to give a methodology to collect these data. Another source is the list that's the most expensive statistical job. This is an opportunity to respond to Mr Pankretić's subject area of agricultural statistics for us are the most expensive part of the programme. Because we still don't have a register of agricultural households, farm registers or whatever we're gonna call it. He didn't cover everything that could be the base for statistical research. And just a few statistical surveys in the field of agriculture to process them, we have to engage dozens or hundreds of people who will follow crops in the spring, how much where they are sown, yielding what revenue they make over the year. Then when we talk about production in agriculture, how much it adopts or yields harvested in summer in autumn and in different years. It is similar to the area of livestock and other areas. The register of agricultural households if it settles according to the methodology for which the postage statistics are intended will seriously cost our job. Because then we will be able to obtain data from it and not only will we be able to process the data that we have provided for the current programmes but we will also be able to easily structure and specify so that we give and data at a lower level and, in particular, at regional levels, on which point I will answer the question of two MPs later on when it comes to the problem of regionalisation of Croatia and the determination of statistical regions. But here I still have to look back on the discussion of two representatives of my colleagues. Mr. Ljuba Jurčić's representative, Mr. Shemsa Tankovic, and I must say if he were to make a broader statement or answer their questions, then I should say that he should stop being a politician and only then could I give the right answer. Because they have just shown their new profession in every performance, they have acted as politicians not as teachers, not as consumers of statistical products.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31576	Mr. Gelo, give a little less of these poetic impressions, visions, messiahs than be specific. You're the director of the State Statistics Office. There were comments, motions from the MPs. There's one custom here that doesn't get in a little bit like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31577	Okay, thank you. I'm sorry. But I must say that they would accuse the State Statistics Office of dealing with politics then, in the 2001 census, he could review the data received by the Director of the State Statistics Office as he got from the field to meet the needs or wishes of certain consumers. Namely, the data are what the list contains and the data obtained must not be modified. This is therefore an answer to the subject of the list and language issue of the name of certain national minorities. We've been getting information on the lists that someone is a Martian or an Egyptian or I don't know what kind. Therefore, as regards the macroeconomic indicators of the 2005 programme, which passed the Government's State Statistics Institute respected the law and built the programme by the end of 2004, and this programme was addressed to the Croatian Parliament. I hope we will soon meet on this topic, has foreseen a series of macroeconomic indicators or the preparation of macroeconomic indicators primarily imputes the highway tables of financial accounts and others about what Mr Jurcic spoke about even briefly about statistical regions namely I think it is very important. Which Mrs. Kosića Cicin Sain pointed out, and another Mr. Pankretić, if I recall correctly. The programme of statistical regions with 5 regions in Croatia was not acceptable to the European Union. The programme that is in the Croatian government is about a programme which the statistics made a year, a year and a half ago and proposed could not pass. And my idea of Croatia being just one region when I came to the head of the State Statistics Institute was also not accepted exclusively for formal reasons. For the new countries, there have been members of the European Union such as these 10 recently accepted or four which are now candidates Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey and Croatia. Formal reasons and the primary number of lower borders and upper limits of population are actually law. In Croatia, in order to form regions, we must not tear up the county so that part of the county is transferred to one region and part to another. And by tailoring the county structure as we have, we couldn't spark more than 4 regions, and a few days ago we got a signal from Brussels or Luxembourg that they don't mind that Croatia forms the proposed four regions among which it is and immediately to answer you, I hope you won't need to replicate. Isolated Zagreb with Zagreb County as a whole which would be illogically divided into several regions. And which in itself is so very fast or is or will the European Union fall out of the chance to benefit from access and structural funds. And three regions there is a ring around Zagreb, so-called Central Croatia in which Sisak-Moslavina County, Karlovacka, Bjelovarska, Međimurska, Varazdin and Krapina-Zagorska, I think that without Koprivnica-Križevačka, therefore this ring that makes up the ring around Zagreb and gravitates Zagreb rather than Osijek, Rijeka or Split will be a separate region and will unfortunately have enough time or enough years to withdraw these funds and so on. The second region of Slavonia is so historical where Osijek is the lowest at the level of development, it is dominantly agrarian and will also have this unfortunate chance of developing and, as one journalist said recently, Brussels is closer than Zagreb. The third and fourth regions, respectively, are the coastal Uzdra region, so expensive from Istria to Dubrovnik with Ličko-Senj County, Primorje-goranski, Zadarski, Sibenik-Kninsko and Split-Dalmatia. And that part of Croatia is unfortunately also significantly below the level of development of the European Union average and they will, therefore, be four regions of which three are somewhere below 50 or below the average development of the European Union. I think the Croatian government will also accept this and that we will have a regionalised Croatia, and of course we will then and all the data we will be doing at regional and county level, that is NUTS level 3. Forgive me if I have failed to answer some questions, and now I would just like to say that in fact all the amendments proposed by the Committee on Gender Equality have already been said on that committee that we accept them, that I, as a demographic, am also very happy to do so, that showing all indicators that we can show by sex. The only limit for statistics can be that the source from which we use these data makes it impossible for certain proposals in these amendments to show, for example, in the next programme of statistical research and that we will publish a particular publication on so-called. Gender statistics, i.e. on all or almost all possible gender indicators. I think I've answered all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31578	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Šemso Tankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31579	Thank you very much. My colleague, Jacob Gelo, is talking about the statistical product. I mentioned that one of these products donated in 2001 is a bad product and has lasting negative consequences for members of national minorities, especially the members of the Bosniak people in the Republic of Croatia. Let me just say that what has not been done, in the local elections, which are now following, we would have 27 councilors by automation because the number would produce it, and today there is no such thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31580	And respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31581	Since the director of the State Statistics Office, Dr. Gello, has in a strange way called the representatives whether they speak as professors or as politicians, here I would like to correct one of his allegations. He spoke of the late Francis Ferdinand, and I quote, "His Majesty, Croatian Emperor Francis Ferdinand", whether or not he should be called here in the Croatian Assembly with "His Majesty" I don't know, but he was never a Croatian emperor, he was, he wore, he had the office of Croatian King.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31582	My colleague Jurjevic, it wasn't Franjo Ferdinand first, it was Franjo Josip.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31583	But Francis Joseph, good, good, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31584	One is the archduke Ferdinand, Francis Ferdinand, that's some... It didn't exist, we're not familiar with that, is Francis Joseph. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And respected representative Zvonimir Mršić, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31585	So I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that there are formal obstacles to Croatia being in this pre-accession time, even at a time when it will appear as a member of the European Union as a single region, so as a whole in the pre-accession funds, i.e. in cohesion funds. That's not true because such a right was fought by Hungary. Hungary is also a member of the European Union in pre-accession, and now appears in cohesion funds as one region, as one region has an obligation to regionalise Hungary by 2007. So, it can only be necessary to have successful and skilled negotiators.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31586	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's go to the vote. Please engage to determine the quorum. Come on, come on, come on, come on, Gentlemen and ladies, please come in. Some of them aren't. Please, how much is the quorum? 84, for now. Okay. First, the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia 2004 to 2012. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Committee on Gender Equality has been accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the proposal for a strategy. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I note that with 93 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31673	Here you go, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, briefly. Therefore, the parent board, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 30 November 2004 discussed the Statute of the Post Office Council submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Post Office Council on 21 September 2004. The Committee considered the proposal for a Council of Postal Services Statute as a home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that the proposed text had been in line with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 11 November 2004. And after the debate has been held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to confirm the Statute of the Council for Postal Services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31674	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We only have one registered on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31675	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Just very short on behalf of the club. The club will support this Statute and we agree that the Parliament will confirm it. This Council was established by the Law on Mail as an independent, independent and profitable legal person with public authority and by its activities which were also prescribed and established by law once more in this Statute, we see that it is a significant body carrying out tasks such as the issue and withdrawal of postal service permits, the establishment of the amount of funds from the state budget referred to in Article 24 of the Law, the settlement of disputes relating to the provision of access to the public postal network referred to in Article 26, is accompanied by the application of the prices of postal services and proposes to the competent authority of the State administration, the taking of legal measures in the case where the postal service provider adopts or applies prices contrary to the criteria laid down by a certain law, therefore very important authority. It agrees with the general conditions of the postal service provider, monitors the development of postal activity and postal services markets and takes the necessary measures to ensure an evenly effective competition on the postal service market. The Statute is as we have heard in line with the remarks of the Government, contains all the ingredients which one statute of legal person and should have a regulated name and seat, regulates therefore activities, representation, representation, signing, formation and way of working of councils, appointment and resolution we see that it consists of five members appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The property and liability for the obligations is also regulated, the powers of the President of the Council, the Vice-President, the financial business. Since the statutes contain everything that is necessary, we propose and we will support the confirmation of this statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31676	Thank you very much. Madam President, do you want... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Confirmation of the Statute of the Postal Services Council. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the Statute of the Postal Services Council. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the Statute is confirmed by 101 votes, 4 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31679	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from August 2003 to September 2004, which is just ahead of us, was conceived in a way that, with the report on the work of the Governing Council, we also have an annual report on HINA, which includes 2003 and 2004 and, in fact, in that part, the most interesting part about what the HINA is waiting for in the future, and this is a development strategy, as well as the opening of certain issues concerning HINA in the future and its status as well as its structure within media houses. In this report itself, we can read in one part and the other, that what is really important, and that is the transition to the national agency is a painful and painful path in which there must have been some difficulties not only certain but also the real difficulties that are mentioned here in terms of the financial problems HINA faced as those most important, meaning the financial stability which is really the most important that one agency, or one institution, would have settled and could normally and uninterruptedly deal with. So the Council's mandate is marked by the reconstruction of HINA into an independent public institution with simultaneous efforts to achieve the standards of independent and public media and, as I said, the struggle for financial independence, and this is the very financial independence that I have said the foundation of freedom of each media expression, and it has been achieved here by a compromise solution by looking for a road, and this is based on the agreement on the basis of a common subscription with the founder, a contract was signed with the founder, which is not in fact direct funding from the budget, but is nevertheless payment of services, meaning that HINA has forced one other transformation of the adjustment actually for the collection of services, not for direct financing, and in this sense has triggered one particular dynamic which was certainly not present until then. So the goal is that after 2007 HINA achieves more than 50% of its own income on a commercial basis, therefore issues, i.e. open dilemmas, and the design model that would allow this to be discussed. In these reports, certain examples of individual bodies of agencies present on the European and world media scene have been given, but certainly there is no direct proposal that would fit our situation best so that certain discussions, which I see also on the board, will continue to be open throughout HINA so that HINA's real growth can mean a single independent media house, a truly respectable news agency, while at the same time satisfying its basic activity given to it by law, and that a part of the activity can be placed on the market and in this sense ensure some kind of independence. Normally, the state will always be interested in political information, but only that cannot be lived. It is therefore necessary to develop, strengthen market business components, invest in the development of other content, new services, new subscribers that the meaning of basic activity will be within the frameworks of the law and on the principles of independent, impartial and professional news reporting. And in fact, as HINA can reach new subscribers, we need first of all to see what the opportunities for the expansion of the media market in Croatia are, and I think that from now on, they are not big. Let us look at certain situations that can also be analysed at national level in press media. We see how much funding is needed and how much investment is needed in marketing that a single press media in terms of a diary with existing two or three which are now meant, however in one traditional habit, is given a certain pass, it is certainly not easy or simple, and that we do not speak at a local level where the media are, above all, even more dependent on marketing and cannot only deal with the basic meaning of its information activity and yet have to meet the needs of the public and the needs of the founders and all other aspects. Normally, we are witnessing that the growing demand for information on entertainment content is normal, and therefore the prices of serious content drop, and their production is expensive, and it is certain that it must be taken into account how best to adapt. It is well placed to mean the dilemma of influence on editorial policy, namely independence from the policy that is perceived in this sense by the law in terms of impact on real policy while in the future other interests are possible, especially those with a market for information and which, in that sense, draw their strength. What HINA expects is also, not only to expect but to face what it is, and that is to fight competition. We know that the present foreign houses that sell information are certainly based on different basics, with them the market has been dominated long before and has set up its legality by which it works, without talking about the Internet that certainly provides a large range of opportunities, but it is also an unregulated area, especially in terms of copyright protection. Where it is necessary to adapt EU legislation quickly to standards and secure regulation of the area. We had recently in, in the adoption of the Penal Code, just an example, meaning, the introduction of that area into the Criminal Law so that the judiciary, or the judiciary, could act in this regard. We also had examples that certainly are not easy to process and that open up a series of questions and a series of possibilities for counterfeiting, a series of possibilities for abuse. This, especially in the content and activity of HINA, is one area where, in terms of one legal arrangement, it is necessary to take much more care to protect certain things and certain copyrights. In the report itself, it also reads as an observation, which should also be well read, that, in accordance with one commercial approach, i.e. with activities that will be based on market principles, appropriate marketing should also be established and that, in that sense, it is not easy to adapt such a state institution, which is certainly on its basis for independent financing, in view of the security of financing very threefold. It's not easy, it's not an easy adjustment, it's not an easy change, and it's in that sense a lot to do, and it's actually marketing, and it's that in some ways, not in some way, but certainly the most quality selling product. There is also a need for changes in business policy in terms of price fixing, setting services, setting services as well as conditions of use and publishing content. What is most interesting during the time it comes is certainly the development of multimedia services, business services, graphic video services, photo services, and this is certainly a significant cost increase, but in any case this is the time of new technologies to which HINA must join, in which it must seek the possibility of new earnings, opening up a new market and new subscribers. It is certainly necessary to invest continuously in IT equipment and as a basis for development and as a real protection in order to, therefore, continue to be able to carry out uninterrupted charging with certainty. And what particularly stands out here and as a problem is the equipment of correspondence. HINA has a very modest, modest palette, so to speak, correspondence and, nevertheless, no, they certainly meet and with increased efforts they play their part in order to, so that the basic activity can take place uninterruptedly, but cannot, without extension and without adequate technical, technological equipment, further develop this activity. In particular, I say, in conditions where the information market really deals with everyone, when they claim it and when it's a good basis, it means, for the entry of completely new entities into that area and the creation of brand new power plants. And in terms of even monofilament positions, and what's most important, investment in people. The people here are the bearers of the whole activity and the bearers of development. In that sense, the Croatian Democratic Community Club also discussed the HINA Report and took note of it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31680	Thank you, dear colleague. It's all right. [[Vice President, I'm sorry, I didn't see.]] Thank you very much for your apology. It is next, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic, on behalf of the HSP Club. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31681	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to this report and when it comes to the media, we rightists always remember Max Webber and his teachings in this area and especially that part of how and how the media can be put into office to shape public opinion. And so I can turn the bad guy into the bad guy and turn the bad guy into the bad guy. Therefore, the fact that the media has enormous power and a huge impact on public opinion formation is particularly important when we talk about the report on HINA's work. And here I must immediately state on behalf of the HSP Club that HINA, along with Croatian Radio is a public medium that is adorned by independent, impartial, professional, timely and professional information of the Croatian public. So, HINA with Croatian Radio, we also said when it was debated about Croatian TV, that Croatian TV is on the way, but that they should be seen on HINA and that they should be seen on Croatian Radio. Because that's the only way Croatian citizens are going to get real information, information that won't be haired, information that won't be in office either this or that government, either this or that political party, and that's the future and all the media and all the space. If we want to have the media professional and professional then they should be an example of HINA and Croatian Radio. Therefore, we do not want to prolong much, but we ourselves know these 15 years of recent Croatian history that the media could play a variety of roles and also negative ones, both in terms of public opinion formation and therefore create certain attitudes. We know what the impact is, what the power of the media is, say, in the United States. He says, "Tell us who you want and he'll be president." We also have that good show "Yes, Ministers" of England, where it is visible how and how public opinion can be shaped, how and how public opinion can be affected. And because I am not longer, we are giving full support to HINA, and we hope that all other media will take the example of HINA, the Croatian Radio and that it will begin independently, professionally, impartially to report to the Croatian public, and thus help the Croatian public not to give the media public public a public opinion but to be shaped on the basis of facts, means, only the fact, true facts and truths determine public opinion, and not that someone does so on behalf of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31682	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kovacevic. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Ante Markov. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31683	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the representative of the Proposer of this report. Today is certainly one of the biggest challenges facing the modern world is the issue of information, the question of how information is collected, the availability of this information and the placement of that information. It is clear that new technologies are changing ways of media communication almost as quickly, thus creating clear new challenges for both monitoring and users, as well as for those who create this information. Of course, modern democratic societies and this issue want to be regulated in accordance with all applicable and regulated customs in modern and democratic societies, which is primarily that information transmitted by such public institutions, namely independent public media, and HINA is one of them to be accurate, to be impartial and to be available to all those who are secondaryly transferring or processing and creating a general public picture. That is why, in some ways, it was necessary two years ago to position HINA differently, to set it on certain starting grounds that should be an introduction to a different response that is needed in the new time, and also in accordance with practice, but also in experience, as well as in those standards that apply in the world and in the European Union. It is precisely why the process of creating a public institution and an independent public media of HINA which has begun, and at the very beginning, I must say that the HSS Club is satisfied with the application of the HINA Act with this report, which, by the way, consists of five members of various professions, precisely because this media coverage, given its proportionality, would be fully covered, we can say that this Law and HINA, which was clearly acting through this Law, has gained the interest that the public expected, which is that the information that was being collected and delivered to secondary users, could be said to have been correct, that it was rapid and that it was present. Of course, there is always a question of what is the level of gathering of this information that should make up the pyramid of information? Lately, by decentralising society and transferring certain events to local levels, local levels often remain isolated from these general information, especially those collected by HINA. This is why the creation of a network of businesses that would in some way sublime the total Croatian and other space that is interesting for Croatian media is something that was actually needed and will need to be more prominent in those objectives, especially which are characterized by the thinking of a new business model by 2007 and selecting the direction of movement in which this public and independent institution should be developed. The three models known in Europe, a market-based profit model, are clearly listed. the cooperative media character and the mixed model that sublimes both sides in some way is still relying on certain means or certain relationships with the central government and thus trying to reduce that part of its own, its income side, and to strengthen certain media yields or revenues that should appear through this way. Of course, in our terms as useful and as necessary for this independent public institution to be positioned in such a proper way as it has been positioned so far, it is so good that it serves as one model or as one framework in which both the secondary media or the electronic or the press would behave in which it would occur and that this one frame is actually the framework that will be the overall stage of media positioning correctly, properly, impartially and thus confirm the credibility of what is happening here. The very fact that just by acting on the new HINA Act, HINA through its new way and new approach to work has succeeded in saving or saving almost 8 million kunas that it has increased its revenues based on media and not media revenues, it is talking about the correctness of this time, and I also think that in this way it is almost focusing on which model it should move towards in this next period when the administrative council will deliver a new report, which will refer to 2005, 2006 or 2007, which is that one mixed model that partly relies on relations with the central state authority, and another part of all other independent media and those users of information that are in this space. So above all, respecting the fact that our society's capabilities, the spread of secondary media networks and the needs and the fact that HINA remains the main repairer of all those who either form the media or through press media are trying to create an objective picture of certain events, certain events and thus position and evaluate the role of these events or those individuals in the public. Therefore, one positive picture that HINA certainly contains in itself and why the HSS Club will absolutely support this report and above all say that it is an absolutely good path that has been set out to freeze solid relations with the state is good to loosen up, to establish, but what is most important perhaps simply to say at the beginning, which is that a normative organisation of normative and organisational conditions means ways to collect information, to determine what is positive information, which is real information, that it is necessary to introduce it in a media way and not only within the framework of HINA, but within the framework of the overall media system that should be positioned on these principles which it is just advocating in its own way and HINA, i.e. the fundamental law that speaks of it. Of course, the introduction of standards that apply and are valid in the European Union is something that will be imposed in itself and in our area of action. Respecting the fact that new technologies simply penetrate the market, that we are facing them on a daily basis, both the way and the receipt of such information that are not completely systematicised and normatively processed can in fact cause a particular earthquake on the media market, unless they too would be monitored and included in such a fully clear normised and acceptable way of processing and collecting information as stated in this report. For all these reasons, the HSS Club supports this report on the work of the Governing Council. And it expects that this trend in the construction of this system of public institutions continues and that the following report also shows the forms of media action, new technologies that have not yet been noticed or simply have not been properly solved within our media system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31684	Thank you very much, fellow Markov. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31685	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Director, I am pleased that, on behalf of the SDP Club, I can also refer to those words spoken by individual representatives of individual other clubs, which pointed out from the opportunity of the Stabilisation process in HINA and in some way the normative frameworks that have been appropriate, therefore, to one more stable and business and more secure to say the position of HINA as a whole media space and the exchange of information. I would say the report itself gives a good insight into the situation of the problem, also well sketches development issues, and in that sense, it is certainly not a problem to support it, too, by the SDP Club. What I would particularly focus on is actually going to be more of a problem and perhaps possible solutions than saying repeating the functions and roles of HINA. She is known to such an agency to this society and this state needs and she has indeed passed from the stage that she began to build on so as to say nothing that the phase that she became one of the relevant media space institutions known. What seems to me to have been good by yesterday may need to be asked as a question. Indeed, the 2001 law and later contractual relations between the state and its institutions and the body and HINE have reached one model that was creative for this period and I certainly do not claim at all that it is changing, but that something else about it is being considered. This is a model in which in some ways state funds have moved to the budgeting of services and in which they have stagnated since 2000 and have been frozen to some 16 to 16.5 million and where, therefore, there is no room for further financial strengthening of HINE. At the same time, this space has been somewhat questioned and frozen by the prices of services HINA has towards users. And they haven't changed since 2001 either. I am saying this because we must find and as a Parliament as a Parliament we must be responsible for, and preventably, predicting any difficulties in which such an institution might be found in actually objective circumstances that are external and difficult to influence. And it is difficult to imagine an important step in expanding the space of users, and it is difficult to imagine an important step in the ability of the prices of services themselves in terms of the market and the market for information that is relatively limited in Croatia and therefore on the overall social opportunities to finance certain things. Of the 16 million he gets HINA this way on the line so contracts with the state actually most of it goes back to the state. It's 16 million like this and 13 million of it or something almost back to the state in the form of different taxes and other taxes. So actually the financial resources of HINA and the share of the state from contractual relations were otherwise actually very, very low. I would be the same, and we would certainly support the idea that the gradual ratios between market revenue and revenues related to the State service contract are going further and further towards that point marked by 50%. But the question is whether or not we're going to get an adequate service through it. The service must be more interesting and important to us than I think. The main and perhaps main area that arises from this is that we have to again on the HINA case by the fact that the information that has long been kept. But we need to fully understand it. Information is a real commodity. Indeed, in this world where information is circulated as a product of HINA as well as any other source of information services and information must cover its interests and capabilities and its financial resources in this respect. However, information is not only a commodity, and in particular it is becoming less and less goods in the context of the development of the media space in Croatia, which is primarily directed towards a growing degree of commercialisation and is increasingly interested in the type of information for which society is, in fact, the most interested. And so this is information that serves the public both for orientation and for political issues and for the courts in the courts concerning pluralism of different opinions, pluralism of the media and so on. Therefore, it seems to me that there is a need to consider whether there is a possibility that, by not neglecting the market side of HINE's income, we can see and consider something that if the matter were the position of information and the media position then HINE would primarily be expressed. Namely, if Croatia's TV and HTV as well allows the public institution to be freed from VAT, something similar might be considered in the case of HINE. The part of the information society and the state for which it must be interested is exactly the aspect in which it can be talked about freeing space as well as for the book so that we can ensure the competitiveness of this agency in relation to international agencies. And in relation to unfair competitions occurring on the market of information and where it may be questioned by its position. It must be taken into account by the interference that it must not happen that a journalist in HINA simply because of the existential needs of the institutions to make it more worthwhile for him to work elsewhere. It must be possible for the development of services, the development... of correspondence to be at the level of the really need of this society, because it is now extremely small. It must be thought that in all forms of pressure from which commercial pressure becomes more and more important and stronger than the political pressure itself, we release HINU to function in a way that is needed by society as a whole. In this context, if we share market and political pressures on which both HINA must be free, perhaps we could talk more today about threats concerning different market and primarily commercial pressures, but not bad conditions remain awake and possible political pressures. It is also known and should not be pointed out in particular, and it would not be pointed out at all that any changes occur and that is that the media and media spaces have indeed been free of any form of interference for several years. And I hope it will stay that way even though they've been recorded lately and some different phenomena. I would have to say that the possibility of manipulating information is very large and that the code that HINA has adopted in this respect I suppose can be a good instrument that also within the values of the methodology and criteria adopted there is thinking about the way in which certain information is presented, who is processing them and how they are presented and given to the public. In this regard, I would not like to be or be one of those who may be overthinking little things in relation to the total values of HINA, but certain selectivity, certain discriminations that I do not say discrimination can be recorded. This I do not think is something that should be pointed out as crucial when we talk about HINA, but it is certainly something that I suppose thanks to the acts that HINA itself has adopted regarding therefore and the press code will be considered on the relevant bodies, so perhaps in the perspective and such a form of information could appear as a form that is presented in the report on the work of the Administrative Council because it is not registered here in this regard. Of course, no one has performed statistics either, but it would be good if such things were also an integral part of HINA's internal concern and continued concerns about HINA's way of presenting independence, or its own autonomy as independence. I hope that we may see this in some future report, and in conclusion, by supporting this report, we are opening up a question that should also be considered at the government level, especially at HINA level, whether relations that are frozen at 2000 with regard to the state stake, i.e. the share from the provision of services to state authorities and with regard to the fixing of service prices can be maintained at this level, and that HINA continues to progress in the way it itself predicted. So with these minor remarks and positive assessments, we will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31686	Thank you, colleague Vujic. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is a respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here is almost, speaking on behalf of the club, our Vujic, said almost everything he needed, which requires this year's report and what can be said after all. There is no doubt, therefore, that the normative activity, namely the HINA Act, which was adopted in 2001 during the coalition government, contributed to the stabilisation of HINA, that it had set it up and brought it into line with all European media standards, guaranteed him editorial, management, economic and financial independence. And as the HINA Act literally states, that it as a result of no media, no journalist must be exposed to any influence that could endanger the accuracy, objectivity or credibility of its information. So it is very important, apart from this legal normative good arrangement, to always have one atmosphere in which the responsibility of the ruling ones is special. As they think about freedom of the media, the place and role of journalists and media in general. Never have you or human rights and freedoms, and in particular freedoms of journalists and media are once and for all given, they are forever in danger and at risk and therefore I say that the special responsibility is therefore all political factors, but particularly the ruling thoughts of freedom of the media, what their role is in further democratisation of society. Perhaps this is the occasion, so very short, so that I will not repeat what he has said so eloquently on behalf of the Vujic Club, what are the dangers and what has been happening over the past year and more in our media space, or what has happened to certain journalists. Because it's not, then, all of a sudden, and when it happens to any journalist, no matter what he may not have been specifically affected by any journalist from any other media house or agency. These things should be spoken openly and without any last thought or anger. Why do I say this specifically, you need to talk? Because the public is already a little buzzy, and that's how the grades are. Unfortunately, the degree of development of media freedoms in Croatia has gone back over the past year, that it has not improved. We are witnesses, some media have written about it, different attacks either directly or indirectly on journalists. What are the sanctions for that? So I suggest something very specific. So it's not enough of such threats that it's always difficult to prove and prove because they happen often and become obsessing between the four eyes, so how to make such threats and prove it, and that's why it's not enough for us to have a general threat as a criminal offence in the Penal Code. I think just for the sake of the importance of the development of democracy in which independent media and journalists, the pillar of democracy's development, is necessary in exactly the right way and to respond to every threat, to every attack. I am pulling a parallel with the protection of the independence of the judiciary, and therefore perhaps I suggest that we all consider here together, and especially the resolution ministry, i.e. the government as a whole, in the amendments to the next criminal legislation that follows, to incriminate itself as a special crime attack on the independence of the media and threats addressed to the media as a special criminal offence. So in this way we will create a further normative assumption of effective protection of something that is already assumed by the Constitution, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, which is detailed in the HINA Act itself, but in the end that protection would be effective, and I think that such an attack has such social weight and such social danger that it deserves such incrimination in our criminal act, in the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31688	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Director. From his design, HINA actually works and develops well. It is certainly the director's credit, it is the responsibility of the editorials, and it is also the merit of Parliament, which has obviously made a good legal solution that enables stability, quality work and reliable development of HINA. There is no editorial independence without the financial independence of any media house. Therefore, stability in funding is the most important way, the most important leverage that will allow for independence in editorial work. It looks forward to increasing the share of revenues from the sale of services from year to year in HINA financing. The second part, which was initially transferred from the state budget, and recently, on the basis of an agreement on the use of services, decreases in relative amount, means in percentage amount, in absolute terms, it has been stable 16 million kuna for years. And that there he is, that we can expect that ratio to come soon, is half-50 percent. What is HINA's special position compared to other media houses? First of all, that's trust. You know, when there's some information in the paper that's private property, then that information can and doesn't have to be trusted. Often it turns out that she is half-accurate or incorrect. Such newspapers in Croatia can be hoped to be more and more. Because it's actually market law, which drives publishers to increasingly sensationalism, and that sensationalism involves less and less truth and less reliability. HINA is here and must remain an exception. What HINA publishes must be known to be absolutely correct. HINA thus sends a specific picture of Croatia to the world, and finally according to all its users who later publish or recycle these HINA news. HINA I say develops and works well and now the only question is how to help HINA to speed up this path. Some problems are listed here. One of the possible solutions was suggested by a colleague, Vujic, speaking on behalf of the club, and I think that should be considered. Because HINA has a contract with the government to buy these services, use services. So the government pays these services to HINA, but then they get paid to VAT. So 22% of that money goes back to the state register. Information is as good as any other. VAT is paid for the transport of goods and services, HINA provides a service in this respect. But perhaps some kind of model should be introduced in which users of these permanent users, the state-owned hives for which the government makes an agreement to pay some kind of HINA tax, such as citizens pay the HRT fee, and then the tax as a parafiscal intention would be released from VAT. This would increase HINA's income from this base at the same time by 22%. Another possible variant to help HINA expand the number of users. Look at this report I see that only six embassies and one consulate being served. I wonder how other embassies and consulates work if they have no idea they're somewhere in the world far away, what's going on in the country. How's that ambassador working out there, how's he doing his job? Therefore, I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should contact you tomorrow and extend that contract to all the embassies and all the consulates of the Republic of Croatia in the world, not because they would help HINA financially, but to enable their crews outside to do their job in quality. Legislative amendments should also be considered not so much in the HINA Act that is good, but in other media laws, because there are simply new phenomena. You know, on to the web. The area appears to be unfair competition that objectively damages HINA, and is not the interest of this country to allow this mess. The interest of the state, the interest of Croatia, the interest of the Government, is to enable HINA as one public service, the responsible service of a reliable service not to suffer harm from unfair competition. Therefore, this should consider media, changes to media legislation and the regulation of the market. And only two more, three sentences about editorials. These are impressive data, 160 employees, less than 160 employees, over 400 titles in the day. This shows that these people work hard, do a lot of work, do a responsible job because of that obligation in the credibility of their information. They can't not watch any news and let in a service not checked, they have to check each information twice or three times, because once it's released into service it has to be reliable. Of course there are mistakes. But they don't spoil the general good picture of HINA's work. It would be only be interesting if, with these reports beautifully drawn up well and richly, we could get a report of respect for this code of journalism. Let's see how it's done by the press, how this editorial of yours is experiencing the freedom of his work. Is that code respected, is there interference, is there pressure, is there interference? Why? Not so we can fight here, but to help you. If that's what we have to protect you from, all together, by all means, all parties in this House to help this press code be respected. It is the only thing that may be missing in this correct, encouraging report, it would be good for the next report to be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31690	Thank you, dear fellow Stazic. It's time for my dear fellow Holy One. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31691	Mr. Vice President, Director of HINA, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Croatian Reporting and News Agency of November 2001 defined HINA as a legal person who has the status of a public institution and whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. HINA's activities are determined at the collection and distribution of more effective and objective news-age information about events in the Republic of Croatia and the world, for the purposes of the media and other participants in social political, cultural and economic life. When we talk about the work of this institution, it is necessary to highlight the provisions of the Act which determines that the Croatian News Agency is acting according to the principles of independent, impartial and professional news and agency reporting, and must not be exposed to any influence that could compromise the accuracy, objectivity or credibility of its information. According to this report of the Governing Council, from August 2003 to September 2004, we can conclude that the Agency’s work within its own section was carried out in a high and correct manner by maintaining a high level of objectivity and independence. In an effort to raise the level of professional reporting on the principles of accuracy, independence, impartiality, I would especially like to point out in a good way to achieve these objective information objectives through the acceptance and signing of the acts of basic professional standards signed by all employees journalists and editors of HINE. The way to access data for use in a particular news report described in this report in the section on the work of the editorship, which is the content in the standards of news agency reporting, is certainly to be welcomed. I fully agree that only such reporting can be considered fully objective and independent. Only such an approach can be held by HINU as a national news agency in the service of the public as an independent and independent media institution and prevent any political and ideological or economic control. And that's why it's important to maintain HINE's financial stability. Through the revenues from the state budget as provided for by the contract on the common subscription of the body of the state administration and other beneficiaries of the state budget. But, of course, continue to insist on HINE's obligation to increase its own revenues from the media market through new services and new users to reach the level of 50 per cent and more of its own income from the founders by 2007. The possibility of revising this goal confirms data in the last few years, which shows that the share of the state budget from year to year has dropped. So that share in 2000 was 16.593 thousand kuna or 60.75%. 2002. 16.148 thousand kuna or 54.45 percent. In 2003. 16.185 thousand kuna or 53.06%. As reported and derived from this HINE report, HINA is now in the ranks of European national agencies with more than 130 news photos and tonne records annually with 400 news and other information in Croatian and English language daily that provides 500 users in Croatia with news. All this HINA implements through 20 information services and databases of all information broadcast in Croatian and English since 17 August 1990 We have been familiar with the report during the reconstruction of existing and start-up of new services and projects, which numbered 10 of them in the report itself. This suggests that the agency is not limited to traditional news agency services, but is actively responding to all service users' demands in the application of new media and technology. From this definition, which only guarantees the Agency's growth, it is understandable to invest heavily in the modernisation of an information system that must be reliable and secure and as such accessible users. The report states that two thirds of the equipment and software support has been replaced or upgraded, which is certainly commendable. It is particularly important to highlight further building on investment in people, primarily in their education. It is necessary to support the planned measures of complementary staff education, in particular learning foreign languages and knowledge from the power of information. Because I would agree with the report on human potential as the most valuable asset of the agency. For these reasons, I will support the vote to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31692	Thank you very much, dear fellow All-Secretary. It's time for my esteemed colleague Frano Piploic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31693	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. HINE. According to this report on the work of the Governing Council for September 2003. – In 2004, it is actually the main goal of achieving the conditions for the reconstruction of HINE into an independent public institution and an independent medium, as recorded here in this report. It's a little vague for me, it turns out, when we literally realize it's HINA by now when it was a state agency that it was actually independent. And that there was a lot of things she wasn't on her own. But it seems to me that this is about a kind of financial independence. In fact, if the state was the biggest funded HINA was from the state budget. And that it is now actually moving towards new intensities that this agency is also making part of its income available on the market to achieve its basic objectives means to inform the public in quality independently in terms of ethical principles. What's this redesign supposed to be about? The point is that HINA begins to operate on commercial and market principles. And that means choosing an appropriate model that is to ensure a stable business of the agency itself. According to this report, by 2007 it should mean that such a business should be established so that almost 50 % of the revenue is achieved on the media market and other users of information services. I clearly think to everyone that, for now and in the future, the state will be one of the largest financial partners of this agency, through this subscription that is now working and which may need to be strengthened by some of the other state bodies, in order to achieve the financial independence and security of this agency. It seems to me, however, that this is one significant percentage of about 50% of the income is related to the state and thus automatically has appropriate favourable circumstances for all other media dealing with information. However, 50% remain and these other 50% should be achieved in the foreign and foreign media markets. I don't know how much other media in the world is interested in Hina's services, but apparently they may even be interested. However, I see one possibility of improving the financial situation and thus the role of HINE itself in achieving public interest in this local market. I see this possibility through more quality shifts, let's say that HINA should in some way expand the word with the signs of the range of its services, products. Because today many printed electronic media in Croatia have many of their correspondence, so obviously they will not always use HINE services and products. The most common media daily media is interested in information that has the character of sensation. What will be quickly spent, which will be quickly consumed, means citizens readers, listeners, viewers. They have to get their daily portion of the sensation, whether it's tied through death, through sex, drugs, alcohol. In this sense HINA cannot go safely so that it and such a form cannot provide such a type of service. It is clear that HINA cannot have many correspondence in many places especially in the whole of Croatia because in many ways it makes its financial opportunities more difficult, the situation, so there is not so much income that it could invest in this correspondence. But there's another possibility HINA can rely on local media on electronic and printed media. On the basis of the exchange. Because there is a public interest in many of our environments, there is a public interest, that through such a public institution that many contents from the local environment are placed on our internal Croatian market to be available to the wider Croatian public. By means of such cooperation means HINA can come in a easier way to collect quality data, quality information and clearly that it will be able to through these local media and place a part of the information from the rest of the market in Croatia. Who will actually have one whole Croatian state space quality covered with events, events that happen in certain parts of Croatia. Because it's often an interest in what's sensational, and there's a lot of quality content that's needed for someone to connect us from cultural, social, economic, entertainment, etc. etc. And I would no longer consider this word, I would give support and efforts to HINA in its intention, i.e. that the Council and HINA leadership lead to those objectives that have been outlined, but I would ask that more attention be taken to this cooperation with local media, because I am saying that I see the possibility for HINA to reach faster, easier and cheaper information that can be re-placed and that in such a way we have one quality integration in the territory of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31694	Thank you very much, dear colleague Piploic. Would you like to take the closing word? Yeah. The final word of Director HINA, Mr. Mirko Bolfek. Here you go, Mr. Bolfek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31695	Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank you for the attention and time that has been devoted to HINA. I have to say that this is, in fact, ever since I've been in HINA, the first content debate and I'm intimately satisfied because I see that it's talking with understanding and that those main problems that I've thought so far are just the preoccupations of this narrow circle of editorial and governing council that often live with the feeling that there's actually no partner with which it might exchange its dilemmas. So on this occasion, I'm just underlining something that is highlighted today and in the debate, which is that this model that HINA has in some way set out in the direction of business that has long before us adopted news agencies in the countries of market, rational-market economy and traditional democracy, that the path that has obviously led to the first solutions, but as we can hear here today, I absolutely support this understanding, it is in some way close to its own, it has reached its limits. Therefore, the HINA report raises the question of what happened after 2007, so the first development of HINA reconstruction in which that goal will be expressed by 50:50% in funding, so the question is normally asked what to do next. With all the ideas that have been presented here today, which are partly consistent with the thoughts of HINA, I would say just something that is in some way the next step that is waiting for us this year, and is related to a major event in Croatia, and of course to HINA, which, as a news agency, cannot pass the need for more complex reporting on what is going to happen to us in Brussels, specifically in the negotiations that I am convinced will still open. In a concrete situation, the opening of HINA correspondence in Brussels is somewhere worth 100,000 euros a year, which we cannot obtain and secure in a different way than by selling or creating a new product. It is a specialized service that we have called "EU-info", which we have already offered to the media market and I am convinced that things are moving now that we will achieve at least half of these revenues by selling new information to the media. We will address the state, i.e. the Government, that the other part of this cost, i.e. assuming that both state bodies and institutions need such up-to-date and continuous specialised information on what is now going on on the route of Zagreb-Bruxelles, in Brussels and in Zagreb to that end, and then with one add-on to the joint, joint subscription contract that has already been signed for this year, could also provide funding, i.e. an extended country subscription at the level of around 30 thousand kuna per month, where all ministries, state bodies and all other users, including the Parliament, could receive this new set of information. This is not marketing but simply an illustration of the model that HINA has developed and will be developed in the future, creating new products, new services that we assume this society needs, and what is particularly important, which must be confirmed on the media market as something that someone really needs. This is at the same time a criterion that makes us in HINA to do quality information and something here in the debate underlines as our basic capital not only of HINA but of every news agency to preserve the absolute credibility of our information, because in agency journalism it is said that the good things that the agency achieves during the day through its informative processes to remember only that day and that mistakes are remembered for years. So the worst thing that can happen to a news agency, in moral and market terms, is that I say commercially, if it stops believing in one of her news. That is why all the efforts in HINA are aimed at setting and achieving high professional goals of journalism, which, as in no profession, is very simple, requires a lot of effort and learning and to preserve the credibility of the name HINA because otherwise you will not be trusted by the general public, you will not be trusted by customers. According to the fact that information is not a mere commodity, I think so, and this example has shown itself, and it has also been shown in our colleagues who used to pass this path in the countries of rational democracy, that it must not be lost out of sight that it is still a commodity, because only what someone buys if it is worth it, carries a certain value in a material sense is also professionally justified. In short, it is neither propaganda nor gifts of information, but it has a mutual justification both on the part of the press and on the side of the one to whom this information is finally directed. Well, thank you, then, for this useful debate. I noticed, although this is quite mildly said and critical remarks, in particular suggestions that this report might also be submitted next year to allow for a certain valorisation of thematic and reporting in the field of political information, so we will be happy to do so. We usually have that information, but since this was primarily a report from the Governing Council, then the part relating to the editorship is presented only in hints. Now, I thank you once again for the attention and time that HINA is devoted to, and I ask you to continue as has been shown today's debate to follow our path and to support the principles that are finally expressed in the HINA Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31696	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA, August 2003, September 2004 The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA for the period August 2003, September 2004 shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? The 103 vote report for and 2 abstentions was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31699	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. I was assigned to explain a large report on the 150 pages of text that discusses this burning issue of great evil that is globally not only Croatia, and it is a question of drugs. We are even more encouraged to be involved in a survey of 35 European countries between themselves and Croatia, where it was actually tested very scientifically as it already goes in medical professions, where our 16-year-olds were followed in 95, 99 and 2003, where the data on smoking, drinking, drug use was taken, and it made us particularly sad at where at the beginning of the first year when we joined the 95th study we were somewhere in the middle of the consumption of these evil habits, and now we are slowly climbing to the top, which means that most of our concerns and greater involvement of our entire community of all the professions that should help to solve such a problem. This report covers 2002, 2003, and we are moving practically from ourselves, which would be a fundamental objective, a fundamental element of drug abuse policy in the Republic of Croatia, is in fact a continuous implementation of organised measures aimed at reducing the availability of drugs on the illegal market and the demand for these drugs, but at the same time the implementation of strong preventive measures and activities aimed at reducing young people's interest, especially young people for drug use. The number of treated addicts in the Republic of Croatia can be seen in this report that in 2003 5 thousand 678 treated addicts were mostly men 4 thousand 659, and 1019 women, which is about 2.3 less, given a year earlier. The newly discovered... registered addicts in 2002 versus 2002 were 2067 and 2003. 1840, which would be a reduction of 11% compared to a year ago, but is it really so... The methodological difference when centres started to form in the county, public health services until they were still completely stalking. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2003 there are, indeed, newly discovered for the first time, so registered by... addicts 846. How are they treated? They can be treated in the infirmary, they can be treated in an ambulatory hospital, they can be treated in hospital, combined, medical, hospital, daily hospital, and then the treatment community has all of this in your manuals, here shows, reports. And we see that they're mostly treated both in one and two years that are combined here most of them are treated practically only by an ambulance. One part is treated for example in 2003. 4461 addicts were treated in an ambulatory manner, and in an ambulatory manner in combination with hospital 479, while in a daily hospital, 25, in hospitals 613 itself. If we look at the county area then we see that in Istria the largest number has been treated, that means that it is really active, it is a better service and therefore they are better supplied. Furthermore, there are in Zagreb, Sibenik-Kninski and Zadar. The rate of treated addicts per 100,000 inhabitants for the Republic of Croatia in 2002 was 130.4 and 2003. 127.4, which would be 2.3 less, which would actually make us happy if that were true, but I'm afraid there's a methodological trap in the display statistically. The average age of the first drug use was 18.9 as a curiosity medically reported even if it was a nine-year-old or a nine-year-old who was indeed an early age, but here their average age is 18.9. And 67.4% of addicts start taking drugs by the age of 20, so it's practically young people who are very, there's the most recruiting there at a young age. The average age of first marijuana treatment for 16 years, the psychostimulators were 17-year-olds, ecstasy 17 years old, intoxicated for 19 years, sedated for 25 years. But what's important here is another fact that it lasts about four years on Monday from the first drug use until it comes to treatment. It is the one period that is practically hidden in some way that unfortunately parents notice at the latest and then the addiction has caught the big wave and the consequences are already more difficult and difficult, treatment and withdrawal. ... In the show, you can see that men are more involved in drug use than women. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It saddens us especially that we find births, these are our most difficult problems and that in 2003 the increase in births of addicts was almost 13.5%. The most we had in Split was 16. In Pula 6, in Zagreb 7, and so in some areas more where larger cities are, where there are these. Furthermore, self-addiction brings with it other diseases and these are the most common diseases of Hepatitis C, B, a large number of patients affected by Hepatitis C almost 71% of addicts. Fortunately, our HIV has not yet such a high prevalence of only 0.2% in addicts in Croatia. And otherwise Croatia has a small number of HIV infections. Although HIV itself is a huge problem for transition countries all over the country that are from the former Soviet Union is gaining independence. But the result is often mortality so that mortality grows rapidly, in 98, 37 were deaths, 99. 61, 2000. 74, 2001. 77, 2002. 86 and 2003, 95. So, if we competed in 2002 versus 2003, then in 2003, ten percent more mortality. What causes this mortality is most often caused by an overdose of opiates almost in the daily press we find a found person dependent in a state, park or elsewhere is the reason unfortunately drug overdose. And probably in that market, drugs are unfair combinations, so then even an addict doesn't know what he's taking, and that market has its own harsh egotistical rules that are really being expressed there. Unfortunately, the results have increased mortality. In Croatia, for the treatment of addictions other than clinical and institutions, there are almost 12, 33 therapeutic houses, which are historically created in various ways. But it's one of the treatments. They implement psychosocial rehabilitation programs, working treatments often to gather physical and recreational activities to help them break away from addiction. They also give promotional programmes aimed at prevention in the community and help addicts who are being instructed and sometimes sent abroad. Sometimes with this going abroad is and have negative sides unless it's legally done they don't have visas certain countries they're legally there, then they just sometimes extradite them back. Some programmes are indeed based on the principle of self-help, group, individual treatment of progress through the hierarchy of personal roles and personal position in the community as well as working therapy is a philosophy of these working communities. Furthermore, there is a whole range of associations to combat drug abuse, and these associations indeed through civil society have indeed made a pretty big contribution even for 2002 for 2151 addicts. 218 drug users, and helped nearly 3500 families to facilitate the situation and understand the situation of a family member as an addict. In 2002, 99 persons were sent for treatment through such treatment communities and 2003. 111 people. It's important that the factor and the amount of heroin seized here we can be satisfied that virtually in 2003 almost 85,000 727 kilograms of heroin was seized. And the comparisons to the year before were only 6 grand. So that data pleases us that the increase of 132% is. We're particularly pleased, I mean we're never satisfied enough but we compare these two years because that's how the report is drawn up then we see that in 2002 practically a little cocaine seized is only 3297 and in 2003 almost 350 thousand, so that's one big success that we can congratulate our machine that deals with drug search and seizure. The criminal departments of our police. If we're looking at ecstasy, then we're more satisfied in 2002 where there were 110 thousand 632 tablets, and in 2003 it was significantly less than 20 thousand 840 it's hard to say that it was less, it simply didn't work so much to confiscate. And it's even more worrying that the prices of these ecstasyes have become increasingly cheap of any polluted chemicals so they're getting better at saying that they're increasingly available especially young people who don't have their own material resources because they're mostly from the unemployed. Almost 51% of drug users are unemployed. Marijuana was seized in kilograms in 2002 by nearly 600 thousand, 2003, slightly less than 435 thousand. If we look at one other statistical indicator in 2002, 7585 were seized by all types of intoxicating drugs, while during 2003. In 6366, which would be a relative reduction if we were to see that we had a large seized cocaine... The funds in a significant amount were then better seized in 203 qualitatively. During 2003, there was a reduction in reported criminal offences by 8.31 compared to the previous year, with a rise of 112% in 2003 and 2002 respectively. In our programme, national education and prevention are of the utmost importance. Clearly, repressive measures have been seized, it is certainly necessary and the most important thing is that there is no drug supply. But it is of great importance that the education of the population, especially young generations, is about the big problem and the difficulties that anyone gets to try to take drugs, and, unfortunately, it often goes into the habit. That's how school-school activity programs were adopted. The previous clear education of teachers, employees of the social care centre, is also being trained by judicial staff, police officers. Judicial medics, toxicologists, working therapists, student associations representatives and clearly young different political parties. Media promotion or campaign is of great importance with the distribution of promotional educational materials to inform citizens as much as possible about the impact and harmfulness of intoxicating drugs. A free anti-drug phone line has also been opened at the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse so that it is available to every citizen and can get information about it. We formed a network of centers to prevent addiction and non-patient treatment. It is very important that the public health services of all cities have formed teams dealing with prevention and treatment of addicts, so all of Croatia has the availability that all are practically equally available. There have been some difficulties in funding, but slowly this year it is already in the state budget and it has been given so that the Croatian Insurance Institute can already plan staff in which, i.e. finance personnel while the counties give space so that it is equally divided between the central state and local self-government, that we all bear material responsibility in treating our opiates and preventing opiates. Then created what is important, a computer program for better data collection in connection with drug addicts and we will be compatible with the European programme,... program. We can also say that we care about people who are incarcerated by various standards in prisons, for example. In the penitentiary in Lepoglav, there is also a programme for addicts where 67 addicts are involved. A requalification program has been developed, drug addicts are educated where all of these are closed institutions and we have further opened seven units in county departments in county hospitals in psychiatric wards. Seven detoxification units that help those who are practically life-threatening and are overdosed even when they are in major crises. It is clear that the law on amendments and additions on the prevention and misuse of intoxicating drugs has been amended, as has the Road Safety Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, the Regulation on the determination of goods exported and imported on the basis of licences, all of this is regulated. Regulation on the conditions for the cultivation of hemp, the manner in which the cultivation of macaques and the conditions for the possession of the traffic of intoxicating drugs in the veterinary sector are declared. Then the regulation on determining the health capacity of the recruit, the rule on drug testing, so that there is a really far-reaching legislation and is working on all the parts that matter that are in the area or legislation of human rights that there is no harm anywhere to do as humane and as effective as possible. A significant amount of intoxicating drugs has been seized, as I have previously stated in detail, increased activities to combat drug abuse, so-called drug abuse. street reductions. There's even a special drug department set up inside the Treasury Customs Department and we've started a pilot project, testing motor vehicle drivers for intoxicating drugs. International activity is also of great importance, and Croatia is proud to cooperate in all sectors, especially our position, which is somewhere between the East and the West and the vast transit of so-called. The Balkan route of drugs often crossing our country and there is no much greater responsibility to the rest of the world for controlling the transition, unfortunately this time the drugs. So we have continued cooperation with relevant international institutions and we especially want to work on the international region of other countries bordering us where cooperation would be even more intense. The Republic of Croatia has become a member of the United Nations Narcotics Commission. In November 2003, a conference was held in Dubrovnik on the creation of a common system in the area of drug abuse for Southeast European countries. An informal co-ordination group has been created, and what is important is that we step up the work to bring together the system to combat the abuse of the Republic of Croatia's intoxicating drugs with the European Union's standard and practice where we strive to get there as soon as possible. This very large, this great report shows the pursuit of what has been done in our country in recent years about this big problem, far from being satisfied to the end, but this must give us a message that we all need to be as conscious as possible, which is more intensely all the resolutions and all the sectors are working to reduce this problem that makes drug use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31700	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31701	Mr. President, it is incorrect that the secretary of state claimed that the major success was the greater amount of drug seized in 2003 than in 2002. It can be a success for itself, not compared to 2002, unless you have any specific knowledge that such or even greater amount of car to Croatia has no exact indicators. In fact, it says something else, that smugglers have raped themselves so much that they carry so much without fear, yet there they have been caught.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31702	Okay. What, Mr. Turic? ... What, I don't understand? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Discussing the report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse for 2002 and 2003. Dear Representative Damir Cain, IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31704	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Well, I think we'll all agree that there's no more life-threatening topic than the need to fight a drug addict. There are probably no bigger problems, more specifically if this problem is not the biggest problem is certainly one of the biggest ones, because it generates a whole series of other problems from raising crime to breaking up family, from huge health costs, to the fear that every parent has to their children so that something like that doesn't happen to them. The fact that the age limit of drug consumption is moving down, the fact that on the streets of drugs is getting more and more, that we are somehow powerless, that our schools are at risk leads us to the fact that there needs to be a real reason for full care and for one permanent action. Those who follow, say, what is happening in the police world notice that both heroin and hashish and ecstasy have been more frequent lately, etc. And that's something to say goodbye to. However, the price of drugs that is cheaper today than it was 10 years ago suggests that on our streets drugs are incomparably higher today than it was 10 years ago, which will say that the young population today is incomparably more vulnerable than it was 10 years ago. The question is clear whether society has done everything in this matter, or maybe any citizen, could ask themselves according to that Kennedy, "don't ask what the community can do for you, wonder what you can do for her." And that's actually true in some things. We always expect that someone third to solve our problems, but here when drugs are Wednesday our community must be the most engaged, meaning from these repressive organs to health, but also clear citizens should be the ones to talk about what's going on in schools, what's going on with their kids, who are those dealers that everybody knows in the middle, who are being kept quiet again, etc. We can't just say that in one Pula, I don't know who's dealing drugs and everyone's keeping quiet about it again. In Rijeka, Pazin, Zadar, no matter what. You can't keep your mouth shut about that problem, because today I don't know that can happen to my child, and he's fine, he's small, but tomorrow it's going to happen to someone else, etc. In this report, it is found that the drug epidemic is literally being used, meaning addiction was created during the Homeland War. Why? Is it because the country was dominantly committed to defence, so the police were more engaged in the war than in the background. Whether because of some new ones often not only incompetent but also suspicious types who may have taken over some police stations. Whether it's because of the judiciary or maybe because it's in the military then and today it's easier to get drugs than it's possible to get on the street. Whether the policy at the time knew what was happening to her in the troops, or maybe I wouldn't say it, but it went beyond that, because many world adventurers paid 150 or 200 marks wasn't enough. We also have to ask ourselves the question of how many members of the Guard brigade got hooked on heroin at the time of the war. I could name some names, some even with general acts that are supposed to be close to that mile. The most clantant example is certainly General Andabak, who is at large, so nothing can be imputed to him. But he was mentioned in his own time in connection with the alleged imports of 620 kilos of cocaine. A river that until then, practically by the end of the '90s was without even a big city, a maritime town without too much drugs because they kept it for these directions over it, suddenly after that seized fall, so now the problem of addiction in it is the same as in Zadar, Pula or Split. One of the most distressing reports of addiction, I read 26. Nine. 2004 on "The Evening List." One mother literally said this way what she would do today if she could. She quotes, "If I could change anything," she says, "I'd just be stricter with the kids." And that's the point. You just can't tie those kids to yourself. You have to work. The average salary is $4000. So the worker pays 2 thousand 500 to 3 thousand kuna. If you're lucky they both work in your family, that's about 6.7,000 kunas as much as the minimum cost of a four-member family. Parents must work full-time if they, not themselves but their children, wish to afford something, of course on credit and problems will be in our country and future more and more. And drugs like I said never cheaper. This report states that we have 18 thousand 476 registered addicts. Maybe that number should be adjusted down by a thousand, two or three thousand of those under the quotes "who took off." However, even so corrected should then be multiplied by three or four to create a real problem of dependence in the Republic of Croatia and no one should be asked parallelly why money is made to some people who do nothing. I said the police have been getting more narcotics lately than we've ever been taught in an earlier period. That's probably good because it says that the police are getting more professional but she clearly can't do it all alone even though I would give her 100% free hands on that issue. It should be monitored but it should be independent, for example, of overspeed or of those 0.2.0.3 promil. Okay, every year more and more people apply by the State's Attorney's office. Because of drug consumption in 2002, about 5% less people were accused than in 2001 and the problem must have been greater in 2002 than it was in 2001, as it was also certain that the 2004 addiction problem was greater than it was a year ago. I'm afraid that trend can go practically to 2005 etc. What do people usually sign up for? For possession of drugs. Mostly small amounts, but the dealers still walk big as liberators. It would be so good if you looked at it, and you got the CD film "Leaved" by pulse authors to consider that people who report to hospitals are fighting for the life of addicts in case of overdose that in some way, under quotes "yes amnesty", because because of that fear that they will be prosecuted on their hands or in front of them will die our neighbors or their friends. Someone will say it's a matter of criminal law, I agree, but I find that message quite logical. It's clearly not allowed, it's clear to please drug dealers. He's particularly troublesome, so-called. Juvenile crime. In 98, 386 minors were reported, in 2001 as many as one thousand 216, 2003. 766. The question arises why this reduction? Is because, under the allegations of "reforming criminal law" the godliness of this legislation and we know that more drugs are growing and that this addiction is growing. I agree that young people should be absolutely protected, they should be given a chance, they should not be excluded from our community, although we are aware that from that population they are later recruited under the quotes "adults". Why should young people also be helped in this form? To regain consciousness in some way. With drugs to express myself, year by year we have more and more, for drugs we have from year to year condemned more and more adult and more reported, so it could be said that as the police grow older, so they become more mature and our judicial apparatus. For example, in 98, 1257 people were convicted, and before last 2003. 4069. But what's interesting, for drug possession, is 78.5% of that number for sale 14.4. These drug dealers, they're already huge beasts 0.8%, for unauthorized equipment management 0.1%, giving drugs to a minor, means 1.4%, giving drugs to another person 4.8%. If there's something to punish, it means association, but of all of them it's clear that there's at least 0.8% of them and giving drugs to a child 1.4%. If you need to be exclusive somewhere, then you should be there when someone gives the kid drugs. There should be mercy, that must not be forgiven. Our schools must become safe, not a place of parents' fear, even though the question is again who is dealing with these children. They're dealing kids. In America, dealers are caught at the age of 6, 7, 8 years. We're not far from America either. So as much as I'm prepared for the treasure of the children, after that youth of madness, how much for being hard on those who give kids, I go back to the words of the mother who said that if she could change something today in raising her children, then that would be that she would be stricter to them and that might be the point. Therefore, the IDS Club advocates the following, to check the appearance of drugs in schools by modeling these alcohol tests in all children and without exception, suddenly and continuously. Equally clear in the universities of Buzet via Pazin, Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Osijek, etc. Every parent will let his child not know the saliva, two or three times a year. If there is no such legal obligation, then let us write it down because no one will object to it. I am aware that this would cost, and that is why I would also impose an obligation on all local units to single out 0,1, 0,2, 0,3% of their budget to counter that monster for this purpose. Obviously, by criminal law, we can't, with police and this repressive and judicial apparatus, do we? Perhaps we could use this kind of prevention because parents would come up with information about their children, and in this way, parents who simply hide this fact too often from themselves and others, would know that once each of the fifth grade is going to be tested on drugs two or three times a year. I believe there are no parents in this country who wouldn't agree to anything like that, no human rights defenders who should stand up to it. If there is an epidemic in Croatia as this report says from drugs, it should be treated, and we keep it at the IDS club that it can be this way. Local self-government budgets across the country are somewhere around 10 billion kuna, so let 100 or 200 million kuna be allocated for that purpose. And one more thing, when it comes to Istria. We also heard from Mr Bozikovic's State Secretary, that Istria is the first in Croatia to be treated addicts. That's terrible, even though he said that maybe for better protection it's so in Istria. I'm being assured, and I have here a report from the Committee on Drugs Control in the Istrian County signing Dr. Ivancic, that he literally says that one who knows the real situation knows that these are not based claims, but still says that the problem is clearly very large and that this clearly needs an organised systematic, scientific, I don't know how to mark it, should be opposed. It's good that when Istria did cause the death toll to fall, in 2001 it was 9, 2003. - 3, 2003. - 3. But I'm afraid that I have little children so that something doesn't happen to them, let alone parents who have children at school. So I'm gonna say it one more time and finish it. Let's invest in this health prevention, try through such a form of drug tests to help parents in one, and also children, that in one more systematic way we all stand up to that monster together.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31705	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31706	Your Honor, Mr. President. The esteemed representative Cain made one inaccuracies at his very presentation. He said, he began to mention some names, respected names from Croatia, senior officers of the Croatian Army. He pleaded for them, even mentioned the maltenes, and the entire brigades were involved in drugs. It's incorrect, gentlemen, not only is it incorrect but it's harmful, and I'm sorry to hear that. And colleagues who know very well that the Croatian Army has not been drugged, you probably wouldn't even be here every time talking about any point first in line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31707	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalic, on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31708	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here are colleagues and colleagues from the very composition of a team of proposings who participate and listen to the debate. It is possible to actually read the answer to the weak success of fighting drug abuse. Here are the political representatives present, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health is present, but there are no representatives of the profession, no representatives of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. We don't know why they're not here, we don't know if they've been invited, but now they've always been there in these discussions. Drugs is a specificity and a terrible problem to deal with. The command of politics over the profession, suppressing the profession will lead to an increase in the number of addicts, mortality, crime, and anything that goes with drugs. And if we're suppressing the profession, we're wondering how hypocritical we are when we claim that we want to contain that greatest evil of the modern age. Maybe for some and this report, it's just a formality to conduct a formal discussion. For us at the Croatian Peasant Party Club, this is not the case, and therefore we give serious remarks to both the promoter and the president of the Croatian Parliament, which is not guaranteed the presence of the profession. So we have a very detailed and very high-quality report on the implementation of the national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2002 and 2003 and as such a club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party accepts and supports it. We believe that it contains all the data based on which it can be estimated whether a national strategy has been implemented over the past 2 years, but also to make efficiency analyses of the strategy so drawn up. As the growing prevalence of drug abuse leads to a crisis in modern society, the family crisis as the fundamental headquarters of society leads to the threat of fundamental social values and the increase of crime. The aim of each society must be to combat the abuse of drugs in which a society must be engaged as a whole with all its resources. The activities of all resistors must be coordinated, and the success will depend largely on the full responsibility of everyone throughout the participating chain. Weakness, surface, or not give God the irresponsibility of some and perhaps only one, certainly endangers the stability and efficiency of the entire pyramid. The mode and control measures, according to us in the Croatian Peasant Party, must be proposed by the profession, and the policy is required to ensure the conditions for effective implementation of the agreed measures. The social community's political stance towards this problem is contained in the National Strategy to combat drug abuse adopted unanimously by the Croatian Parliament in 1996. By reading the Report that is before us, we will conclude that all or a large majority of the prescribed measures have been taken over the previous 2 years. The limiting factor is the lack of money, but despite the measures taken, the number of newly-accessible addicts from year to year has increased, so 18,000 476 people have been recorded in the Drug Monitoring Register today. The number of deaths is also increasing. We don't seem to have the answer to the question why. As a party who believes that family is the foundation of every society, we in HSS are trying to see whether and how much the reason for the increase in the number of addicts is in the family, the economic situation of society, but also other sociological developments in society are directly and indirectly reflected in the family. The inability to hire, insecurity of the workplace, the rare lack of paid wages, the unsatisfactory wages for a man's life, the messy working hours and the humiliating status of a significant part of today's employees on the one hand, and the nervous race to earn and subdue whatever is on that road on the other hand endangers the family as a place of atmosphere of material and spiritual stability and the complete security of each individual member. As a result, our families become insecure, disintegrated, instead of the ambience of love, mutual understanding, and support become ambiences of patience and barely durable tolerance. An insecure family leads to the uncertainty of young people. If that uncertainty is accompanied by a sense of imperceptibility in a society they consider corrupt and generally morally eroded, then the only remaining escape from reality, which is for them a world of drugs. Temporarily for them pleasure and forgetfulness, and very quickly for the family hell, and for society problem. However, society and state authorities cannot only conclude that there may be even a basic reason for the expansion of addiction. The state government must take measures to bring back to the family the heat that disappears. Today we have the Ministry of Family, supporting the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party has also given support to the establishment of the Family Ministry. We expected the design and implementation of a programme that would bring back to the families everything left without both economic situation and global trends and sociological events. On this occasion, we must say that we are disappointed because the Ministry has failed to meet our expectations. The implementation of the budget for the first 10 months clearly shows that the Ministry cannot bear the burden it has taken over. It cannot solve problems that are evident, which are resolute, and whose resolution is promised. And as the ministry is committed to solving the problem, the following data indicate. The monitoring and improvement of family policy of the planned million and 100,000 kunas was spent only 436 thousand. The improvement in the quality of family life and the development of family services from the planned 4 million and 400 thousand was spent only one million and 400 thousand. Projects for multi-member families are planned for 2 and a half million, and only 698 thousand kuna are spent. Here, it's a picture of the state's concern for family affirmation. A young man who has no security in the family is unsatisfactory and full of rebellion as a social being finds refuge elsewhere. It's mostly nightclubs and bars. There's drugs and alcohol waiting for him. Of course, the natural consequence is the increase in the number of addicts. So is the state so powerless that it can't edit and reduce the night-to-night work of those where the biggest challenges that follow are the same offer. As the family was made, as for families nothing was done is the same thing with children and young people. The family ministry planned for the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prevent disturbances in the behaviour of children and young people, and only 418 thousand kunas were invested. For monitoring and improving youth policy, a million and 200 are planned and only 200 thousand kuna are invested. A million and 600 thousand kuna were planned to promote social participation of young people, and only one million kunas were invested. Even worse is the support situation for programmes aimed at children and young people of 2 million and 600 thousand kunas, only 900 thousand kunas were invested. The data presented clearly indicate that we are only sticking to declarations about family and youth. 18 and a half thousand addicts commit us to do something concrete instead of making promises and expressing understanding and compassion. After we find that all the measures of the National Strategy have been taken through this report, and yet there is an increase in the number of addicts, has the time not come to wonder what the National Strategy is? Is it missed or may be out of date since it was brought eight years ago? If it is matched as soon as possible with the current state of the drug abuse problem. The report states that the main objective of the United Nations and the European Union is to reduce the supply and demand of drugs. Based on the experience of our children, it seems that drugs are easily available to us, not only in discos and nightclubs but even in schools, secondary and primary schools, and even in kindergartens. It's not a secret for teaching staff, but the most common thing to do is to close their eyes. Drugs are not something that only affects someone else, it affects us all directly or indirectly, and tomorrow it can destroy both the most coherent and stable families. It's said that parents last find out that their child is an addict. That's because of the rejection of the fact that my child can be a drug addict, too. If that option is rejected by a parent, the teacher will close his eyes in front of her because she does not feel invited to raise awareness of her parents, and society will only record the increase in the number of drug addicts. In the fight against drug abuse, parents and then the social community must first be involved. Furthermore, the report shows that the number of people who are hospitally and medically treated in the health care system is increasing. A significant role in the conduct of withdrawal from addiction, rehabilitation and social reintegration of addicts has been played by therapeutic communities. They should play a key role in the rehabilitation and withdrawal of addiction. However, the status of the therapeutic community today is undefined. According to the National Strategy of the Therapy Community, they can be established in a system of health, social care or as autonomous houses that should offer different forms of the programme and create a system for withdrawal from addiction. Given the fact that the number of addicts in the therapeutic communities is increasing each year, it is obvious that the creation of a network of therapeutic communities and the resolution of their legal status are the primary issue of which will hang a whole series of important issues related to the successful treatment of addicts. The assumption of the creation of a network of therapeutic communities is the adoption of a Law on Therapy Communities to define legal status. Despite the existence of 12 treatment communities and 33 treatment houses, there are still not enough accommodation facilities for all interested people to submit a withdrawal programme. It is therefore not acceptable to delay the implementation of the State commune programme. The delay and slowness so characteristic of politics are the enemies of a successful fight against abuse and therefore it is no wonder that addiction becomes an increasingly alarming problem of Croatian society. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party accepted the report, and in order to fight more successfully against the modern cancer of society and family, it proposed to this Assembly conclusions, which it proposes to accept because they were freed of any political motives and politics. They are colleagues and colleagues the result of fear for yours, ours and my children. Let's not close our eyes, I'm not ashamed of fear for all of my three children, who can't reduce the knowledge that the fourth is an adult and strong enough person, and they won't accept the apparent charms that come from drugs. By reading these materials on page 57, 58, and 59, we have indeed come across amazing data. That's how we read. That in 2003, colleagues and colleagues were seized 350 thousand 769 kilograms or 350 tonnes of cocaine in 2003, 350 tons of cocaine, and 85 thousand 727 kilos of heroin. Over 8.5 tons of heroin. Marihuane 435 thousand 037 kilos or 435 tons of cocaine. My colleagues and colleagues, if these data were true in front of us, there would now be a train somewhere that would have about a hundred cars, from all those hundred cars should be full of drugs. It seems to me that these data are not correct, that these data are not true, and I am left with the only belief that with such irresponsibility this report has not been accessed. I'd like to ask the Proposer to show up on this data, because they really look amazing. 435 tons of cocaine in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31709	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ljubica Lalic objected that I did not invite a representative of the profession. This is the government's report on the implementation of the national strategy. The government determines who will discuss in its name the Parliament and the working bodies. In her proposal, the government submitted that it would be Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of State at the Ministry of Health and Head of the Office for the Control of Drug Abuse Bernardica Juretic. This was not possible for the government to do so with regard to the Head of the Office, because according to our Rules of Procedure, according to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the Assembly, only the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Secretary of State can participate in the debate on behalf of the Government. And that she was also invited, and that the head of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse could only have been a listener. We're continuing the debate. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31711	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Like corruption, robbery in privatisation and drugs, Croatian society's early cancer becomes a major social evil. In fact, the very fact that the most famous mobs, meaning Italian or American, is the highest annual income from drug dealing, and that's going to be the size of over a dozen billion dollars says what this monster has become in the world. In fact, the mafia's biggest income is by dealing drugs on the one hand and on the other hand is to convert it into parts that have the characteristics of corruption and everything else refers to some of their other activities. Therefore, to achieve the relevant results is not just a national strategy to combat abuse, it is not enough to set up a variety of committees, expert groups, subcommittees, seminars, counselling and everything else because in this way we only give a false impression that we are taking measures to combat drug abuse and we have seen the results ourselves. Over 18,000 are registered addicts. The Deputy Prime Minister herself said that this figure is far higher, even quadruple. Mrs. Lalić spoke about how many different types of drugs were seized and this fact that we have as many addicts and how many registered and how many are really talking about how many have passed. If this is true, this information that the distinguished colleague Lalić read shows how many different types of drugs are available to everyone on the market in Croatia. Now, let's go to two of the most important reasons for the growing number of drug addicts in Croatia. The first part is that our population is getting poorer. 82% of the population cannot connect end-to-end and expenditures are higher than income and let's face it, drugs are cheap and it is one serious source, fertile soil for an increasing number and an increasing extent of drug abuse in Croatia. Another important thing for us is that our youth is hopeless. The young man is hopeless, the young man doesn't know what he's going to do when he graduates from school, what school he needs to finish, and the real program would be a youth employment program, give him the opportunity to earn, to create this country, to participate. So, with all this other stuff, it would mean things about other topics and raising living standards and everything else because, let's face it, drugs are getting cheaper. Therefore, it is available to all layers. To the most extent, it is available to poor people. Therefore, according to us, the national strategy is three main directions of action. The first course of action is to reduce the availability of drugs, meaning its traffic and all forms of drug abuse. So the measures taken are appropriate in that part. The second part is a prevention programme primarily for children and youth especially prevention programmes in primary and secondary schools. And thirdly, the most important thing is to develop an effective system of treatment for psycho-social rehabilitation and social reintegration of drug addicts. These should be key elements for the fight against drugs, but that is why we need to train the entire state administration and everything else to take action because if we read this report, it is mostly about drug use statistics, and the treatment of addiction, and at least it talks about the most important, and that is how to stop or at least reduce the availability of drugs in Croatia. And to reduce this, these three concrete programmes are needed and therefore all the resources that we will in this part in terms of presentation, in terms of teaching both parents and police, so all those involved in the fight against drugs are small means in relation to what it costs to treat, say, one addict and the question of how and how he will be able to return to society. We know for a fact that even in the police, our situation is such that police officers can identify two or three types of drugs at most. So in this part, we need to take a lot more action and we need to take rigorous penalties in criminal law, above all for drug dealers, for drug dealers and for those who participate in this chain because politics will not be sanctioned but prevention. Because that's what's important to prevent people from knowing how much punishment they're holding off on drug dealers and everything else, and we're not going to help a youth if we're going to propagate the so-called. the law of easy drugs or anything else than if we first allow concrete programmes, by extracting youth from the hopelessness in which it is located, to enable them to be involved, to engage, to employ and everything else because all these other measures listed here will be such that, after a certain period, we will say, in 2007, what we are doing in this area in 2005, and we will have no concrete results. So let's go from word to action and not deal with national strategies, but to design them in the way we said, disable availability, so we need to disable drug availability, prevent and develop an effective system of treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31712	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31713	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Kola Kovacevic concluded that for the spread of drugs is actually one of the main reasons for poverty in Croatia, which I don't think that this finding can be accepted, that it is basically incorrect because it accuses the poor of spreading drugs. In fact, how can the people in question find money for drugs if they don't have bread? So, I don't think this finding is going to stand, that far deeper roots and reasons for the spread of drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31714	Okay. Okay. But it's not that it's a different statement of view of a valuable court. But good. Let's not do that. Club of HSLS representatives DC respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31715	Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. In the past, we've all brought together, I think, over a dozen strategies. There are almost no areas of social life for which we have not brought debates and ultimately adopted a strategy from railways, through maritime fishing, to a strategy to combat drug abuse. And we can say today, in general, by taking a step that is so much needed that we can judge what we have achieved if we have achieved nothing. None of these strategies have had much practical implementation of power and implementation. However, when we look at today this strategy to curb drug abuse, we'll see that we haven't done much before, and we'd say that we've got even worse and even worse conditions in the record than we've had before. We can take that as a general setting. But what's definitely the worst part of it is the fact that we are discussing the implementation of the 2002 strategy at 2 months 2005 today. Ladies and gentlemen, the nation's citizenship, public service, parliamentary representatives, who can afford today in this globalised world of rapid changes in this pace of life to discuss drug abuse from 2002 not only has time run over but there have been so many new addicts thousands and thousands. Thousands and thousands of criminal acts. Thousands and thousands of preventive programs that have fallen into the water. Thousands and thousands of criminal acts that were both captured and punished or were not punished that went unpunished. In these three years, we have actually allowed reality to live somewhere in a black or slightly grey zone that we have not even recorded, nor could we have put an end to it, nor could we have been able to prevent or sanction in any way. It's really amazing to me that it takes us three years, of course it's no offense to the Secretary of State and the current leaders of the ministry. But it's actually something that we all have to ask ourselves. The citizens of this country expect us to be primarily on the issue of drugs, especially when it comes to addictions to being practically recent-informed and that we are recently informing the public what is going on. Today we offer all the happiness that there is no television transmission to our citizens information to any parent who suffers from her child. Any kid who can see needles in every school yard. Any teacher who tries enthusiastically the most, or most often, to prevent drugs from any officer who encounters drugs. We're offering 2002 data today. It's completely unserious. It's completely unserious. I am really asking the Secretary of State to present the report for 2004 at the latest within a month. Then we'll actually be able to deal with these issues and with this social disaster. If we get a report in 2004 at a distance of three years, then it will be 207 years, then there will be very likely to be a new convocation because this assembly will be near the end. So let's not be serious. I don't really know what you're supposed to be discussing here right now. I don't know what the point of commenting on the 2002 record is. And even from 2003. I'm not even going to say that this record is out of line. Uncoordinated. That you have a special indication that contrary to international drug classifications and monitoring the abuse of intoxicating drugs from which heroin and cocaine are particularly classified that you do not know what intoxicating drugs are, which are intoxicated, that you do not have at all some hospitals such as the Mercy Sisters have no records of them, although in 2002 they had records. So I'm not going to mention these individual data that clearly shows that the entire system is out of sync. But when we absorb and the fact that we're discussing 2002, then I think we all need something else to worry about, ladies and gentlemen, the more we do strategies, the tighter we knit that I don't say a little totalitarian that we're tighter about drug crime, the more crime there is. It's actually a drug that can already be obtained in more and more places today. According to the latest data on the Croatian market, there is an increasing number of cracks, so one of the most dangerous drugs. That's the last piece of information we have. So the question arises, then, if we are implementing this strategy, we have an effective mechanism of co-ordination and co-ordinated mechanisms to combat drug abuse. Or actually the more we discuss it, the tighter we tighten the net, the bigger the fish out of the net actually run. But on the other hand, we may be catching children who have one cigarette of marijuana in their hands or perhaps in their pocket or who may have even offered them the first time they had ever tasted marijuana smoke. So we really need to ask ourselves how we have and very seriously access to building this strategy to tighten the net, but on the other hand, we are obviously running away from fish and that, in spite of all this data on tons and tons of drugs that have been seized, there is practically more and more on the market. What is missing in this report, and what I think is a huge flaw that in some way shows social insensitivity, so if you want, colleagues and colleagues, the insensitivity of our representatives is the fact that no one in this Croatia does not mention addiction to alcoholism here either. It's about alcohol. Because alcoholism is like a big social disaster. We have practically not yet had a record of everything that the state does and what it does to society as a whole in order to reduce this great disease. I must admit, honestly, that alcoholism, at least as far as the end of my life is concerned, is a great monster. I would even say that in northern Croatia, it is even more dangerous than drug addiction. That's not what we're talking about. There's a little reference to that. So if you want even the fact that you can order alcohol during working hours in the Croatian Parliament is a fact that contributes to increasing addiction to alcoholism. It can be commented on this and on our part, but I don't think it serves the Croatian Parliament and all of us if we want to fight alcoholism seriously, mainly in one people's country where all the folk songs are related to alcohol, and with, I don't know, down by the bukar, up here with us... I don't know what else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I think it's a serious social issue that unfortunately we haven't faced so far. What I would particularly like to highlight in this report is the fact that an institution we would assume to live in anywhere in a world where such strategies are part of a truly national programme in which that network of institutions is well coordinated. So, an institution that we would expect to see, perhaps in this extensive report, take up the most space is actually the least of the space. It's the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Education and Sports. When you take the full report, you will see that the Ministry of Education and Sports drop out two to three pages where there would be no such two or three pages to taxively not to specify certain programs that are being done and perhaps even more turns out to be graphic and spatial at the Ministry of Education and Sports than is actually done. There is not a single country today that is seriously, seriously struggling with the abuse of intoxicating drugs in which the institution is not in the first place, the key place and the final place. And if we really want to do something then we must necessarily help both human and organisational materially the Ministry of Education and all of our schools because there is no better prevention, there is no better prevention, there is no better detection of drug addiction than talking to teachers and students and of teachers being the best observers, and also the best in preventing drug abuse. Unfortunately, we forget it, and even if you want to in our Curiculum teacher education, you don't have or have very, very little content to bring teachers closer to the world of fighting, the world of prevention of drug abuse. Therefore, I think that far more attention should be paid to this and that the report for this year should pay far more attention to the Ministry of Education and Sports. So, I wouldn't talk on behalf of the HSLS Club and DC about the details of this report because we think it's completely deplaced, this is anacrono, this is completely out of date, there's no point in discussing it, but I am putting on my mind and on the conscience of the secretary of state that the report for 2004, as soon as possible, so within a month before the parliamentary deputies, we can discuss it and then, on the basis of this debate, we can also take and commit the ministries and this entire coordinated network to prevent as much abuse of drug abuse as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31716	I thank Mr. Chehok. Here's the 2002 report for one reason why in 2003 there was a change in the head of the government's Drug Abuse Office, so there was no report on the office, and that's why this report was for 2002 and 2003. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan. I don't think he's here. I'm watching you're not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31717	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community discussed this report, a report showing the review and state of abuse of intoxicating drugs and the state of drug addiction in Croatia, according to counterpart Chehok in 2002 and 2003. And the review points to the fact that drug addiction is an increasingly alarming problem for Croatian society. The report gave a full review of the work of all those involved in any way in the Intoxication Control Programme. Although a number of quality preventive activities and programmes have been carried out in these years, the Croatian Democratic Community Club points to an additional need for a more comprehensive prevention and media campaign, with a view to informing and educating the general public and especially the younger population on the harmfulness and impact of intoxicating drugs. We know that the national strategy for the prevention of drug abuse was brought by the Croatian National Assembly in 1996 and that it is the basis for the operation of all authorities of the state administration, regional self-government as well as NGOs. And we know that the Republic of Croatia is actively involved in regional co-operation, especially with countries that are on the so-called A Balkan route that goes through about 80% of the heroin spent in Europe. But let us speak through the prism of three cases that have marked this situation in the Republic of Croatia in the past few weeks. First, a week ago in the daily newspaper, we read the article "Warning in Zagreb, crack came on the street, a drug that creates a strong psychic addiction in a short time, is cheaper than cocaine and creates a strong sense of euphoria". Second event. Last Monday, at the Karasovici border crossing, 705kg of marijuana was seized. All last year, 428 kilos of the same opiate. It's worth about 1.3 million kuna on the illegal market. If we know that marijuana was a leading drug in 2003, 22% of the time. In addition, the most used drug among our addicts is especially in the younger to 19 years. And the average age of taking is 16 years. Despite the fact that, during 2003, less seizures of different types of intoxicating drugs have been made, some shifts in quantities have also been achieved. Here is what we see from this example, but it is certain that we can consider it with several aspects. The third event, which recently marked the drug situation in the Republic of Croatia, took place in Split when an officer was killed during the official patrol, and the next day after the search and police intervention, the killer committed suicide. The death and drug problem warns us and the DVD left in our representative boxes titled "Leaved" by word and image created by former addicts to warn us that 50 young people die annually in our country, and this is about abandoning the overdoses because of the fear of prosecution and in the film we see terrible headlines such as "Death Rolls the City", "Deavious Death" and a record number of drug deaths in 2003. Perhaps this is the consequence of what, a campaign that is unconstitutional, and they are viewed among other things and in the devastating data of the growing number of addicts, about 2,000 new addicts each year and the number of people killed by intoxicating drugs from 97 when they were 44 to 2003 when they were 95. According to the World Health Organization, only intravenous drug use is responsible for the 200 thousand deaths of addicts annually. And there's this tsunami that happens every year in a reinforced form than we unfortunately had last year, only this form of tsunami is distributed to the whole world. In 2002, even 51% of addicts were unemployed. 20.4% were students and students, each fifth. The Morphian type of addiction is the most present and appears to be approximately 70% of treated patients. The average age of first knowledge, the alignment of all of us, especially parents, is 20 years. More than 5.5 years have passed since the first opiate intake to treatment. The average age of first drug use is slightly above 18 years and from that first experiment to intra-venous use passes on average for two years. All these data relating to 2002 have their confirmation with reinforcements on all paragraphs and in 2003, and that is what is to be imagined. The work of the Office for the control of drug abuse and the Committee for the control of drug abuse in co-ordination with the ministries and other authorities of the state administration designated as holders of measures and activities envisaged by both the national strategy and the programme to combat abuse, has been developed a draft national programme for the abuse of intoxicating drugs adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in January 2003. During June 2003, the office sent a letter to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addictions based in Lisbon for co-operation to exchange data related to trends in drug abuse. Since the Republic of Croatia has not yet gained candidate status in the European Union at the time, formal co-operation with this European centre was not possible, but just tomorrow 10 February at 12:00 in this House is scheduled to meet two committees with this centre and start cooperation. We can figure it out. As international organisations increasingly advocate the harmonisation of legislation, enhanced control, disclosure of money laundering, detection of illegal laboratories, prevention of the spread of drug-related infectious diseases and the reduction of demand and drug trafficking. In order to effectively co-ordinate and systematically combat drug abuse as well as include all segments of society in activities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an Action Plan to combat drug abuse as a basic guideline for all those involved in the anti-addiction system in February 2004. We believe in the Croatian Democratic Community club to put it this way, that the 3D-demographic axis of the drug murderers and the daltonism of all of us responsible will not be the executioner of the Croatian national being. I ask you, can we go out as winners as we did in the 4D - Homeland War. In the club of the Croatian Democratic Community we received this report of knowledge and all its positive actions and shifts but with a great delay after three years all the shortcomings that will need to be corrected as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31718	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31719	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, in fact, when you have a theme like this in front of you, so you have a report that we've heard all about, and that's what it is, you have one basic dilemma, whether it's the report itself, or as most colleagues and colleagues have talked about in principle about this problem. I agree with all those who have presented this assessment that the issue of drug addiction, drug abuse is actually one of the key and primary issues of the Croatian state and society, and then the question is before us all whether, first of all, we here are working enough in politics to solve this problem. I personally don't think we work enough, we don't actually work nearly as close as we should. I often get the impression in this assembly in two or three times this year and we've been talking about drugs for a few days. Actually, I feel like we're doing something for a living. A report has come, and now we need to adopt or not adopt that report, give our opinion or not give our opinion. What's gonna happen? In six or seven months, a report will come back and we'll say something about it again in principle. I ask here whether we as a policy can do and how responsible we are to make this problem, I know it is difficult to eradicate it, but as there are models in some European and not only European countries, it is to contain some kind of let me say a reasonable measure, as it can be a reasonable measure at all. Have we ever considered opening a theme in this Croatian Assembly to this problem so that all committees say something about it, to draw some conclusions, to see, in the end, what it is and what laws are dealing with this problem. Whether a national strategy, a national programme, an action plan might not be necessary if we had clearly defined legal solutions starting with prevention, through treatment to prosecution. You could simply pollomize with just what I heard here today, like what I left in my ear, say when Cain said that fighting a junkie was our primary task. Fighting a drug addict, so it's actually knowledge, you don't know the essence. A junkie, even though he's using drugs, he's an addict. We don't fight him, we fight someone to sell him drugs, we fight to get him treated. In fact, we must definitely make at least one small shift in Croatia, which is to coordinate the terminology used when you read any professional literature that speaks of drugs and drug abuse or which, or when you read and watch as it is dealt with in legislation, let's say, Western European countries. I can't figure out why we keep using the term "intoxicating drugs" when we know cocaine isn't intoxicated drugs, it's stimulant. Why don't we use it as all the Western European countries of "prohibited drugs". Why do we keep avoiding talking about the differentiation between easy drugs and heavy drugs? Because when it comes to treatment and prosecution, there are different procedures. I just think that the whole problem comes out of it because we haven't even really defined the basic concepts that we're talking about here today, let alone that we've actually taken some step forward. And in that sense, no matter how much we have a good will expressed through these strategies, programmes and action plans, until we agree on something, and that is whether we want success, and I believe that we want it on this plan, that then we can take a step forward. When you actually read this report that is really fascinating, there are 150 pages and when you start reading it carefully, you get into a situation and you ask yourself. To what extent did the Office's meeting with a group of people contribute to drug abuse? Or, for example, how many meetings or contacts of the foreign ministry have helped reduce drug abuse with an international institution? Well, it has nothing to do with this report, it's their regular activity because they're paid, which is why they're receiving budget money. So for me, this report is first of all a cumulative sum of what the government institutions have been doing in 2 years, so the bodies of the state administration and even part of the NGO sector. But I don't see the following, and that's the cumulative effect of everything that's been done. And now we're actually coming to the point, and the essence looks like this. So we have this report that, regardless of all its shortcomings, shows the alarming state and we come to conclusions. Now, now, I see actually the meaning of this report and the debate on this report to make a wise conclusion. And now, it's true in that report that there's dissatisfaction with this, and the need for different and more intense prevention, but it's in the executive power, that is to say to those who have submitted this report to us, in fact, to tell us something. That they tell us not only the goal but also the methods because there are different methods. Now I've got one more thing on my mind, and I've read, say, this National Program, as it's called, the Human Rights Promotion and Protection Program. Well, among other things, that's where the human rights of addicts are mentioned. And you know what the goal of that right is? Extermination of addicts. I mean, first one of those findings to write. Okay, that's the ultimate goal of fighting addiction, but to write the eradication that there are no more addicts at all? No, human rights of addicts must first of all be shown in being treated as a sick person, not a criminal. To enable him to study and socialize, or to receive a job. Here, in fact, in one other document, you have again a lack of knowledge of basic concepts and what they mean. So, especially what you'd like to emphasize. If we adopt this report or if some of them say, "Let us take notice or reject it, nothing will happen." I think this debate should result in some conclusions. I saw, the HSS suggested some conclusions. However, I would like to have received one sentence in this report on whether the strategy with the National Programme and the Action Plan is a document that satisfies and which clearly locates and offers a solution to the existing problem? I'd prefer that we, as a Parliament, charge the government to provide us with a list of laws within a month or two. Look, you have one whole area, that the secretary of state knows, which is regulated by regulations and regulations, which treat the treatment of addicts, whether or not to provide us with a list that should change in that direction that we have as little problems as possible and that we have as little drug abuse as possible. And actually, if we started doing that, we'd already take a step forward and you actually know what the best promotion and prevention is? Well, the prevention would actually be if we in this House were to talk publicly in front of TV cameras about this problem. Because the question of drugs isn't politics, it's not politics. We all have the same goal. We can distinguish whether by this method or by some other method we will come to that goal. So, a third of the report deals with treatment. Now you see, there's a lot you could talk about. I'll only start from one finding. All the data, I read it like that, someone doesn't have to, which is presented in this report to me aren't relevant. Why? Because obviously we have information that hospitals don't regularly deliver data and now I don't understand. As far as I know, I'll be here, the secretary of state will help me and complete. I think the hospital is due every three months to deliver a report. This report shows that all hospitals don't deliver reports. Then you have a death situation. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, one number, according to the Department of Judicial Medicine for the second time. Well, because we can at least start from getting a methodology that we can publicly say in this House we have so many, so many drug addicts who are not being treated. But it's the same or similar situation with the Civil Sector, the NGO sector. I cannot accept that the treatment communities do not supply data because they are not legally regulated and because no ministry has been established to take care of it. You have another absurd. There is an alarming situation, and in 2003 associations deal in contact with 4.5 times fewer people and families of people who are related to addiction, and in doing so they got, I don't know, 70% more funds for last year. And someone should take care of that. I don't want too much, I don't want too much about criminal politics and what to do. I was talking about it in this assembly. It simply seems to me this way, that the Croatian judiciary and the Croatian police as many of them from this pay phone and in this House will not tell me to accuse them, but resented them for dealing poorly and badly with these problems. I say it's primarily this Parliament's fault, and only then is the police and the judiciary. Why? So because legislation is such that it does not enable an effective fight against drug abuse, against smugglers, etc. If one, I don't know, Denmark, Portugal, I know there are some 7, 8 countries simply in their legislation have put in place such measures that they have made great, big, big progress in this direction, in this criminal part of the fight against drugs. I don't see why Croatia couldn't do that. Now, as much as this may have caused, and someone seemed to have some ideological or not, I think that Croatia must criminalise easy drugs immediately. For a number of reasons. He has to decriminalize them because 70% of all police arrests, all convictions apply to consumers, not to those who sell those drugs. We, if we bring Croatia's legislation into line with European legislation in that part, will have to bring it into line. If you're reading the state's attorney's reports, if you're listening to what the judges tell you, if you're listening to what the police say, then I don't understand why politics won't accept it. And we're always talking about actually having to listen to the profession. And we simply need to open up a space for a more serious struggle between that organized part of crime and criminals. And since I'm running out of time, I think I should just say, this whole thing should end with the agreement of all the clubs of all the parliamentary parties on what we're doing. Because it would be inadmissible to go through again, not to say six months, but to say a year goes by, and we meet again here and figure out that we have this and that problem that he's alarming. I don't think we as agents in this House have any rights. We could have realized something in the first year and said it was alarming. But now we have a responsibility. We have a responsibility to change something and move something. Don't forget we're the legislative authority, we have mechanisms and opportunities to run a series of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31720	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's fellow Lucin said that in this national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights, that in the protection of the rights of addicts it writes about the eradication of addicts. And here it clearly states under paragraph 5.10.2 that it is to develop an effective system for the treatment of psychosocial rehabilitation and social reintegration to conduct education in the area of the prevention of drug abuse, to carry out a media campaign, to encourage continued international and regional co-operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31722	The word has on behalf of the HNS Club, PGS esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Nikola Ivanish in half.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31723	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Since a lot of things have already been said I will try to make a short synthesis of what we have heard and propose some concrete measures and activities regarding this matter. In fact, we would agree with Mr. Chehok, who is no longer here, if it were really pointless for us to discuss the year in February 2005, regardless of the explanation we heard, it is unacceptable and it must no longer happen. Because in the end it's a bad sign about what we think of this matter, how much we give it. But unlike Mr. Chehok, we wouldn't have amnested the secretary of state, executive power, or us here in this council room. By reading only the report we come to a series of very negative conclusions. First of all, we see that in Croatia, the number of addicts continues to grow more, bigger and bigger. The number of deaths is increasing all the time. Infectious diseases among addicts are very present due to hepatitis, cirrhosis, and further increased mortality. Each fifth addict by profession is a student or student. Every other addict belongs to a group of unemployed people. For the past five, six data is enough to ring all the alarms in one country. I think you agree. Is that what happened? I agree with Mr. Lucin we didn't react nearly as vigorously and as quickly as we should have. There is still very weak coordination between individual levels of government, state, county, local. Just the report we have ahead of us doesn't give us an objective assessment of the efficiency of individual programs. We don't know, so from the report which are the advantages, which the shortcomings of individual programs and how they continue. We still don't know which correlation between the allocations sometimes and the very significant and obtained results. The rate of treated addicts to 100,000 inhabitants differs greatly from county to county. Finally, it is particularly concerned that the rate of treatment of addicts was lower in 2003 than a year earlier. What do you do, change what? Let us leave our colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, especially when it comes to our working bodies, agree with Mr. Lucino so that we can be more thorough, more serious, much more often and much more dedicated to this problem. More professionally, faster and more effectively influence the strategy of curbing the abuse of intoxicating drugs that we have brought, or our colleagues in 96. Furthermore, on page 144 of the report, we see that five ministries did not single out a single June for the implementation of the national strategy, but rather this very demanding and specific job, undermining a specific job within their regular activities. We thought back then and today that without clear tasks, we would not be able to achieve God’s results even in the future. The abuse of intoxicating drugs in the Croatian military, in prisons and elsewhere in the jurisdiction of state authorities and state services also points to our indirect and direct responsibility. We suggest that urgent consideration be given to the possibility of introducing preventive programmes in regular teaching, as we have the case in Ireland, Greece, Spain, without leaving these programmes to individuals, associations, centres that we cannot monitor and cannot coordinate well. Furthermore, it is necessary to get better acquainted with the European system of courts, it already seems to me someone mentioned for drugs that addicts treat in a completely different way, and not in a traditional way, they have one multidisciplinary approach in the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts and all of this, of course under the control of the court, this system of courts could certainly study and implement a lot of things. A much better coordination between national regional and local programmes is needed. And of course provide much more assistance to those environments, those regions that are lagging behind in the implementation of the national strategy. At the end of the day as a doctor, I want to say because I need to know that it seems to me that many people, many people don't know it and they're acting completely wrong, no doctor has ever cured any drug or drug addicts, I sign that. All solutions, other solutions, we need to look elsewhere, because medicine can help where and in what, clearly in removing certain symptoms, and in saving these young people from overdose. The other solutions I repeat must be sought elsewhere and by other measures. I'd recommend my colleagues and colleagues to you to tour the treatment community, I did it, spend a number of hours and days with those young people, so you'll see where our great responsibility lies. I recommend, among other things, one of the communities... that work hard, that have quality programs and very good results. Certainly do it nicely, please, because then we will surely have all of us here quite different access to this matter. I'd like Mr. Vice President to ask Mr. Ivanish to continue this matter in front of the HNS Club, the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31725	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, allow me to conclude, with a few words, the position of the HNS Club, the PGS towards this problem, and by stepping down in one piece and from what I have prepared for the debate, I would like to say a few things that I think are, that come from the previous and what are essential. As we approach the problem of drug abuse in Croatian society, the best way to approach the problem of drug abuse in Croatia is that here today is a referent on behalf of the Government and here present with us the distinguished professor Bozikov, State Secretary for Health, and I would say third in a series of those responsible for this problem in Croatian society. This is clearly seen from this material sent to us by the Honorable President of the Assembly Mr. Seks, on the other hand we have the Government of the Republic of Croatia, standing who will speak for the Government on behalf of this problem but of course there is no one but here is the Secretary of State for Health who is last in a series of those who need to take care of this problem. And let's just say I'm unconventional, I'd ask the secretary of state to give us very well-intentioned information on how much of his day-to-day work on drug deals. And if he's honest with us, then he's going to make it pretty clear, and I think I was absolutely right when I came out of this. The Secretary of State of Health has last in mind the problem of drug abuse simply because it stems from the essence of society's relationship with the problem of drug abuse. The most important thing is to reduce the supply on the drug market, so users and potential users are in a situation that they are trying so hard to reach something that is difficult to come by. Of course, every single one of us when he gets out of this House can get into drugs within ten minutes. So the market offer is such that it is easy to come to both users and those who are potential. Therefore, and to be of this thesis one more only worse and very, very, very cheap. Therefore, firstly, the reduction in supply and the fight against so much drug supply coming to our market, regardless of the occasional spectacular results, at least as we see it through the media, we fail in this area. And that's why Mr. Mlinaric had to sit here. He had to sit and participate actively in the work of today’s session. The second area is the area of prevention, kindergarten, primary school and secondary school. If we don't win a battle here that will result in our victory in countering drug abuse, we will definitely and permanently lose it. Of course, now I don't have much sense, so I had to sit there with the distinguished young Minister Primorac because it was supposed to be a first-rate job for him today. Then it is the third Minister of Health or the Honorable Secretary of State for Health Professor Bozikov for a very simple reason because medicine solves the acute state of affairs, solves acute complications and solves some health consequences but does not participate in the battle to combat drug abuse. We are discussing a report that discusses the prevention of drug abuse, which explains to us who in nature and all of these last steps is the treatment of consequences. So we are wrong yet strategically in approach. That's what I say responsibly. I have been in this House since 1995, and I have also participated in a debate on the national strategy of 1996 on the national programme, on previous reports. And I have to say, we're going round and round because with this approach, we can't solve it. If I don't take much longer, I'm just gonna get out of what I wrote to myself, just one sequence, so I can access the problem of preventing drug abuse. First of all, in the framework of the police, I would imagine a project of an extremely isolated work of the Ministry of Interior. So, I'm not advocating the new police, but a highly autonomous part of our drug-only police force. Why? Because as long as it is firmly interpolated into the overall system of the Ministry of the Interior, a whole series of situations from the overall functioning of the county, say the police and those problems that burden other sectors of the police for economic crime, for this one, are also passed on to the drug department. The question of the drug department from municipal, city, county to state police should be very, very autonomously singled out and, of course, given all the necessary powers and necessary education to pass. Good results are provided by county administrations whose heads are people who have passed the world’s top drug education. I am honored to know also the head of the University of Primorje-goranska's Department of Drugs who has extremely good results. It's about a young professional cop who's been through America, Florida, all training, and they're doing their job right. From this second prevention sector, I would say very banally that part should be applied to classical folk and that is how much money so much music. I think, no matter how much we spend a lot of money in a lot of places, and we probably throw some through the funding of a whole series of things that doesn't produce any results, I think we need to open up that register for this sector even more as a society, but in a very practical way. If Minister Primorac were here, I would advise him to remember a little syntagma that existed at the time he went to school. That's when we talked about education and education. Of course, education and education were no socialist invention or syntagma, but it was one term under which something was meant. Today when you talk to teachers in elementary school and, of course, in a hundred percent work with high school teachers, they don't want to talk to you about parenting. Classes don't want to talk to you, we're here to teach them and be teachers. No, they're here to raise and educate and that, that notion that we forgot is our minus. Therefore, we need to assign aunts in kindergartens, teachers in primary schools and high school teachers to new programs that 30% of their working time is education and then within these frameworks and what we're talking about is 70% of education. Of course, in that ratio, I would raise their salary because of the fact that, of course, aunts in kindergarten to high school professors pay in our society, so every half criminal who has a firm and cheats on a state's tax better status than people in the education process is funny, so they give us such results. Therefore, people in the system of education and education pay additionally and make additional payments to programmes that are concrete guidance and children from kindergarten, through primary school to high school so that they can actively resist the challenge of drugs. Excuse me, these I've just listed should be added to sports teachers or coaches whether they're amateur clubs in our villages or to professional ones who are also tasked. The other day, and with that I would have finished, I talked to a man who coached at the Football Federation of the County of Primorje-goranska that he went to a school these days looking for new children for these selections. And he told me at that school, that I wasn't going to advertise them, I wasn't going to say the name, in no class on the fourth, fifth and sixth, I didn't find any kids who weren't involved in sports anywhere, and I couldn't get them for myself. But they say they're phenomenal, every kid in the fourth, fifth and sixth grade of that Rijeka school is in this one, one, or I don't know which club. But the people who lead them, we must reward and honor them. And I think that such a simplified solution to this problem should be approached with all due respect. Healthcare professionals will always do well to resolve acute conditions, complications and health consequences but the problem of drug abuse will not be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31726	Thank you. We've closed up the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's my turn to say that she's an esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31727	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse for 2002 and 2003 can be said to be correct. However, it is also devastating. Here, we see from year to year the number of consumers increases, the number of addicts increases, and the market offers increase. Then what do you do about it? It is obvious that the effectiveness of repression is not satisfactory, that school programs are not exactly organised or are covered by all schools as necessary, that early detection measures are not very effective and we are faced with a new phenomenon in the last decade that a growing number of prisoners are just addicts. Regardless of whether they gave it to them to support the prison sentence for doing some work in connection with drug abuse or committing some other crime and they are addicts. No matter what crime you commit. So what do you do then? By who knows which times is lamentated is literally lamentated in the Croatian Parliament just about the destruction of drugs about how it is a monster of the modern world. How both the international community struggles and does not find the right measures or effective ways to combat this ominous phenomenon. What I think is very important to point out about the legislation regarding drug control and the general state of crime related to drug abuse. For this reason, the law on the prevention of drug abuse, which has experienced both the necessary and the praises of valuable changes, is noted. As the central normative act prescribed by the most important and fully legitimate drug-related base. You see when the law was passed then he had in mind a whole set of other laws to cover how to start solving this particular problem. In order to give and give effective results, the best way to see is to reduce the trend of addicts or race. So we see the indisputable fact that it grows and what it does. So the fact is, it's not something that needs to be changed. And it is necessary to change exactly what it failed to revive and was in this Croatian Assembly it was in the Croatian Parliament that we pass the Law on amending the criminal law that would put things in the right place. To repeal the provision of Article 173 of the criminal law on drug possession. So not some huge amount because possessing others in this criminal sense and how it is properly understood by court practice and it is very, very rich in this particular problem. It was here when they talked about it, there's a lot of misunderstandings about how the judges are going to go. It's not our place to worry about other people's concerns. At least that's because if the judiciary is anywhere efficient it's there. And he's developed great court practice. And what with almost the least abolished decisions is, therefore, both the municipal and the smallest courts facing this problem are very educated and screwy because 70% of them are dealing with this problem right now. Unfortunately. And how many articles our criminal legislation has. Because the armies of young men and girls of confusion march on the halls of the court and wait for their turn to confess to light a joint. And as long as the repression repressive apparatus is either a police or a judicial being engaged in that kind of criminality allegations, then we'll really be ineffective on what's nice and in our report your offer needs to be reduced. And the offer can be reduced if we deal with drug lords, drug dealers, drug traffickers. And we, in the way things are set up, are often lost, not only is huge energy being spent huge potential, and huge material resources, because only one small part was spent in the annual amount of resources from the state budget being spent in processing, these young people who need first of all help and not being prosecuted. If only a small portion of it had been spent on treatment education, we would have had a minor problem. Because obviously this is the way things are set, not because it doesn't require one particular, one high degree of social condemnation that's not at all about and a little acceptable behavior. It's just to find the right mechanism to deal with this problem. There is no doubt that this is precisely what the attention is drawn to this is to our courts of the state's attorney's office, which is said to say, therefore, that it has been exhausted precisely in the process of detecting and processing this type of crime in 75% of cases exclusively in the possession of drugs. So it was those who were to be affected by the repression that remained out of the reach of criminal repression. Because this is exactly how things are done by protected drug lords and drug dealers. Because it is those who find themselves as end consumers who are more victims than any criminal who simply shut up knowing the situation and persecution and punishment if they give up those whom they have come to, starting from that street pyramid to the top that they automatically connect to the chain and answer for a serious crime. And then they shut up and answer only for it. And that's how we block the situation. And that's evident year after year. And there's obviously something that needs to be changed. There is no need to politicise about it. Because there's a felony, and it's exactly the basis of this law that I consider a roof law on the prevention of drug abuse, and besides, there's a protective measure of obligation. So a special obligation to have a minor with consent... through a legal representative undergoes withdrawal from drugs and other addictions. That often these violations are more severe than they're told by a criminal court. And on the trail of one democratic legal order, it's not a double penalty. Because criminal responsibility doesn't mean that it's eliminated both criminally and vice versa. I mean, it's mostly faster than a misdemeanor. So it's a double responsibility and efficiency hasn't been achieved. There is, however, an absurd situation. YES, a misdemeanor court, because a misdemeanor in a sense is something that is milder. Because the criminal repression that strikes criminal law has given the ultima legal order. So when all the other possibilities are exhausted. And we were just going the other way. And if they did, there'd be little results, no one would say the words. But obviously that's not what results are being achieved. And that's why we need things that our people would say to turn the saw upside down. We won't lose anything society will send a message to those young men and girls just you do drugs it's no longer a crime. However, they fall under criminal responsibility. That's where it needs to be sharpened. Strengthen the implementation of these specific obligations, as provided for in that law. And those funds that have been and that are constantly being spent year after year are being invested in the prevention of education. Let's try it this way, if we have real will and serious desires. This is not how it's gonna work. Let's look at each one, in front of every municipal court every day there's no judge who doesn't have three, four of these discussions. Who in five days can beat his norm on these items. And when this profession itself comes to demand, put those things away from us so that they can possibly be more effective in what society requires of us. Those who are poisoners and young people and families and society. We see here before you initially state secretaries said that it is truly a grand success to catch smugglers or at least carriers of such a large amount of drugs. But it always remains unknown who he was when he answered. We have seen devastating reports, how very difficult it is to process and criminal responsibility for such perpetrators. They are very dangerous, they are in this organized chain, therefore it is commendable to come this amendment to the Uskoko Act which is finally to say something different than the Supreme Court said in its practice. But the law's intensities were precisely that these resellers therefore fit the jump law or that they were also responsible for the jump. That's why I think you should listen to your waist. But not just the profession because the profession said it, but because it says common sense and sound logic. After all, I will remind myself once again that never in Croatian legislation and when it was part of Yugoslavia, when other legislations had Croatia never had the possession of drugs as a criminal offence. But there were also some remarks from fellow Caine when he spoke on behalf of the club. This crime was introduced into our law by Penalty during the original HDZ government that responded in this way when it broke down whether it was a disgrace about a strange arrival of huge amounts of drugs in Croatia and one willingness of the state to fight drugs in such a way. So completely missed, now we see when it's been a whole bunch of years that it's the wrong way and that we should decriminalize drug possession if we want to deal with drug dealers. So that shows the fact. If we don't want to, then we need to make it clear whose side we're on and stop the alimony and do something concrete. The Croatian Parliament is responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31728	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Marija Lugarić. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we should make sure that today's the most pronounced public-health problem in Croatia, but also broader in Europe, is a disease of addiction. What is also a very clear fact is that so far the most effective way to prevent the use, i.e. the abuse of funds of addiction and prevention, is a series of activities aimed at the widest circle of citizens with messages on the harmfulness and consequences of the use of addiction funds. I am here on purpose not talking about drugs, but I am talking about the means of addiction, given that the number of addicts and drug users is significantly smaller and almost negligible if compared to the number of users on legal drugs, or the number of tobacco addicts and alcohol users. In particular, it is an important story about alcohol, since alcohol today is one of the most widespread and socially acceptable addictions. Much more often than drugs, the incidence of alcohol consumption and overdrinking causes many problems. I therefore remind you here that all drug addiction and dependence on alcohol and tobacco addiction are according to the World Health Organization's definition of diseases. Croatia is one of the few countries that defines drug addiction in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse as not a disease, but a permanent habit and the need to take drugs, etc. etc. Therefore, an appeal here and the Government to amend, in this sense, the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse in order to truly call this addiction a real name and what is a world standard. When I talk about, when I said that alcoholism is more dangerous than drugs before, I think it's clear to everyone that it's because drinking alcohol is too quietly allowed and socially highly accepted standards of behavior. We here today in the Croatian Parliament and otherwise society are generally extremely hypocritical because we publicly condemn and Stigmatize, punish, enforce drug addicts while allowing and accepting alcohol addiction. A few numbers. 5% of the population is dependent on alcohol, 20% of our citizens today are extremely overdrinking, 40% suicides are dying and alcohol problems are causing them to die. 50% of the population of those who have families suffer from alcohol. It is every other family in Croatia. 50% of all fatal car accidents are directly caused by alcohol. 67%, two-thirds of all drownings occur under the influence of alcohol, i.e. in a drunk state, as well as 80% of all types of crime is directly or indirectly caused by alcohol. The age when children drink, they reach for alcohol, but they've been on drugs since they were 14 years old. It is known from one report that we received from the Croatian Institute of Public Health that 68% of graduates drink, and in view of first-class students and pupils, this percentage always exceeds 60%. There's also alcohol in the third place of mortality. This is even 10 times more common than the abuse of intoxicating drugs and the two most common causes of death in Croatia today, and I think of cardiovascular and malignancies as well as the result of alcohol. Today, 250 thousand alcoholics are registered in Croatia, taking into account their families there is a very simple conclusion which is as shocking as it is that today in Croatia, about a million people suffer from alcoholism, or almost a quarter of the Republic of Croatia, directly or indirectly. What's especially risky is drinking, drinking alcohol with the sole purpose of drinking. That kind of behavior is recognised by 89% of boys and 85% of girls, and significantly more risky, so they've been drunk at least three times in their lives, which is recognised by every third boy and every fifth girl. It's particularly frightening that 38% of boys and yet every fourth girl somewhere recognize a whip-drinking that is defined as a consecutive drinking of five or more alcoholics, most often severe alcoholic beverages that are drunk in a group with the sole purpose of drinking. I think it's important to talk about drug prevention and this report and the issues of alcoholism, since many researches and all those that have been conducted in Croatia but in the world have shown that children experimenting with alcohol, children experimenting with cigarettes are much more often experimenting with psychoactive drugs. The latest research carried out is the study by Professor Bezinovic on a sample of nearly 3,000 students from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, showing that alcohol and drinking are exactly popular categories of high school students and that they largely determine the lifestyle of these young people. When viewed in accordance with correlational analyses, which is the lifestyle, it largely includes later consumption of all types of drugs. What this report does not look back in any way, and we never talked about it, and it is important to find that children are running away from these altered state of mind, not only looking for illegal and legal drugs but also looking for other means that can cause intoxication, in which I mean the phenomenon, a fairly widespread phenomenon of sneezing glues, and I think of one case that was in Zagreb a year ago when children were poisoned with bugs, it is a shrub plant that grows around the city, because the story has spread that taking bugs is causing hallucinogenic conditions, so children except for hallucinogenicity have experienced and severe poisonings from which many have hardly been cured. This all shows that because of the lack of money, inexperience, and other children’s use of alcohol and these atypical means of addiction, it is very easy to assume that they are potential addicts of illegal drugs and that it is necessary to make a lot of effort not to look at both their figures and their names for a year in such or similar reports at any of the discussions. Therefore, I agree here with what my colleagues have said before me that there is a need to invest in many activities, especially prevention and addiction prevention activities, and not just these illegal drugs, but this, too. And one curiosity, we in Croatia today have a law that prohibits the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors in shops and liquefying in catering facilities. However, the law is written administratively that this applies to alcoholic beverages, and under other regulations neither beer nor wine in Croatia is an alcoholic drink. Wine is a agricultural food product, and beer is a sparkling refreshing drink obtained from water and barley malt yeast, unsweetened cereals and hops. I would therefore ask that the laws governing the catering activity, i.e. the Law on Trade, introduce and propose an amendment proposing that it is not only forbidden to sell alcoholic beverages, but also other beverages containing alcohol which are not categorized as alcoholic beverages, as this is the case with beer and wine. The 2002 data from the state inspectorate shows that in Zagreb throughout 2002, in three cases, there were inaccessible hosts in the offence of pouring alcoholic beverages to minors although I personally am not inclined to walk around cafes so much I see it daily, and they have been able to find it all year round. What's important here is to say when we're talking about this national programme. This programme has existed since 97, here it exists through its third term. All annual reports have been accepted in one way or another, all Parliament's meetings have so far provided formal support to this programme, but real material support has been lost in all budgets. It sometimes seems to me that most politicians today in Croatia think that fighting addiction is driven by appeals, compassion, stories and tears. I'm not saying it without a clue. When we were making budget rebalances for 2004, I personally wrote the amendment, so I know, we completely abolished, and most in this House completely abolished the funds for the prevention of alcoholism in young people. Unfortunately, in 2005, it remained, that amount at zero kuna and I today found it very interesting to listen to some fellow MPs who talked about it, and when they had the opportunity to do more than appeal and compassion, it was to raise the hand to introduce these funds in the budget then they did not do so. And it was interesting, therefore, when a colleague of the Czech Republic said that there was some way that drinking here in the Parliament directly supports addiction. No, it doesn't support that much addiction, it supports what we are here or some of us here are hypocritical, so today we're talking one thing, and when we're able to do it specifically because we can do it specifically then we don't do it. Of course, the 2005 budget has significantly reduced resources for... programmes. That's what we had together, too. And last question, I'd like to get an answer from the secretary of state, and I'm interested in who in Croatia is controlling drugs today. We've got a few programs. Last May 27th, last year, the president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Institute for Prevention of Dependence, was appointed in May of last year, but the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Drugs and the Law on Health Protection was abolished and all jurisdiction passed to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and at the same time we did not increase this all together in the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31730	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Dear colleague Stazic has his word. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this report clearly gives us a problem, we have a big problem. When does this problem arise? Well, somewhere back in the '90s, that's what the report said. In 1990, the number of addicts was 0.9% per thousand inhabitants and 99. 2.7%. So intensively after the Homeland War, and probably this drug business and at the very time of the Homeland War, he made an effort to secure drug placement in Croatia. Unfortunately, we also know that individuals in the Croatian Army were involved in this, General Asudaak, was tried for this, and probably not an isolated case, because otherwise this epidemic would not have taken such an extent. What does the report say? The report is actually a devastating result. The number of addicts is growing, the drugs are on the road getting higher, the drugs are getting cheaper and more available, and we have a national strategy from 1996. So what do we need this strategy for when we have such defeating results? Watch when a general leads a battle or leads a war and sees that he loses battle after battle, and then changes strategy. Because if he continues to war on that same strategy in which the battle after battle loses, then he will lose the war, and I think we are losing this war. That's what all the data shows. And if we don't get serious, we're gonna lose that war. The bells are ringing at the alarm. What's the relationship to that problem? Well, he's a little bit of a witness to this debate. There's a government sending this report here to the Parliament, says it will be presented here by the prime minister, his deputy prime minister and then by the secretary of state. Only the secretary of state came. Respecting the secretary of state and all that he does, but this testifies to the government's relationship with the prime minister, the Deputy Prime Minister to this problem. Well, I don't know if we're talking about the problems Croatia is in, so if there's any bigger than this. Well, isn't this worth having this debate organised a little more seriously by the government itself? Where is he, for example? This is Minister Mlinaric? Well, the Home Office is one of the most important resolution ministries in the fight against drugs. And where is Minister Mlinaric? And I wish he were here so I could ask him what he's like. with a cop in the community. What's with the program? 'Cause look, the drugs were in front of the school. Here you are in the center of Zagreb O.Š. Kaptol, there's a park next to her, sprays all you want to throw away. As long as you want. So why didn't we continue with this program "Policeman in the Community" so that the end of those schools would be cops in uniform or in a civilian who would protect those kids from drug dealers. That would be an effective measure. Well, we don't have millions of schools in Croatia again that it's impossible to control them. Where's Minister Primorac? Because his ministry also has a lot of work to do. Then I'd like to know what she did, for example. The anti-intelligence agency in the fight against the drug business, with the heads of the business. Because now that I'm talking about Minister Mlinaric and Minister Primorac, I'm talking about the last level when the drugs are already on the road. But what did the Anti-intelligence Agency do? Who did they find out? How quiet? Where was the team tried in Croatia? What kind of punishments did they get? There's no such information here, but I'm afraid the data is defeated. POA's been dealing with Pugliz, she's following the press, not the drug business. Then watch who we're after. Who are we after? 78 pages of the report, the criminal offence of the possession of the intoxicating drugs referred to in Article 173 as the most minor form of this crime in the total drug-related criminality accounts for 77.2%. Total drug-related criminality, and this possession is 77.2%. Well, it's those consummations, those kids. And now it's the success of the police, it's the success of our judiciary that 6642 people have been prosecuted, but 5131 of them are petty owners, those who had a joint in their pocket. Well, that's not how we're gonna deal with that evil. We're not gonna beat it. We're not gonna beat him. You know when this issue was debated here in the Parliament, when the SDP came out with that initiative to decriminalize the possession of easy drugs, then the intention was not to write this in the report. You know, someone can't say that he's been processing 6000 642 people. That was the intention. That question was then unfortunately politicized, we were attacked that we were for legalizing drugs, saying things, that there were no easy and heavy drugs, that every drug was dangerous. Well, it is. Well, we're not for any drugs, easy or heavy, so clearly, everyone's dangerous. But it's about whether we're going to be more effective in one way or another. Or year by year we'll write reports that will make it look like state institutions are effective because they process over 6,000 crime-related people, but then I see, then 77% of them are the ones that are found in discos. So what now? I don't think it's a good idea if we keep this up with the government sending us reports like this and then nothing. We discuss it here, it all goes with conclusions or no conclusions or conclusions that are no longer carried out. Look, he said a colleague named Lucin on behalf of the club. If we need to change laws, let's change laws. Let's not politicize. If we have to decriminalize drug possession to be more effective in fighting drug business, we do it. Let's do it. If special police are to be set up like the Americans, the DEA, with powers, with powers. With powers. Not with the authority to analyze cases, but with the authority to arrest them on the spot. If we need to include counterintelligence, let's turn it on, but let's do everything. It's the last time. It's the last time. Because these creepy data are calling us for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31732	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31733	Mr. President, fellow Stazic, you have the right to call representatives of the Croatian Government, but whether their responsibility by not coming to the debate today can be confirmed whether they are responsible or irresponsible, but were not even more responsible representatives of your Government, on 2 November 2001, when we also discussed the report on the implementation of the national drug abuse strategy in the Republic of Croatia for 2000./2001. A year. He was only represented by Mr. Barber on behalf of the government office. In the afternoon came Mr. Assistant, Mr. Zhaya, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Care. That'd be the first one. Secondly, you keep calling out, several times today has been repeated, representatives during the Homeland War the consumption of intoxicating drugs has increased. You can't talk. It's got to be confirmed. You are pleased to call the officers and participants of the Homeland War, so here several times today is the name of General Andabak. Until the judgment comes, he is still just, and when he is proved guilty, he will certainly be guilty of it. Don't be so easy to handle with certain names, no matter who they belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31734	Thank you very much, but I am asking you to correct the allegations in the future, not to...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31735	Well, I did, I fixed...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31736	...not to give each other away.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31737	I did, so I fixed it then, here. I'm sorry, in 2001, no one was...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31738	But my colleague Stazic didn't say anything about 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31739	So then, then we talked about the same topic when the representatives of that government...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31740	We're on the same subject...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31741	...didn't take part in the debate like it didn't happen today. Unfortunately, there's no Minister of this government here either. They weren't both.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31742	You said it right. Unfortunately, there are no ministers of this government either.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31743	Neither.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31744	My colleague Jagoda Martic has a word. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31745	Dear Vice President, thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. It does not need to be stressed, it was clearly seen from all the debates that we are all aware that drugs and all forms of addiction are huge evil and the monster that the whole world is facing today, and so unfortunately Croatia has not been spared this huge problem that destroys not only addicts, but even the whole family. We ask ourselves what we have done so far in the fight with this huge problem and whether what we have done is enough to prevent the spread of this unloved disease because drugs and addiction are in the first place a disease. We have passed the law, the Croatian Parliament has adopted a National Strategy, the Government has adopted an Action Programme, measures have been prescribed to combat drug abuse, tasks and prescribed competences, but it is obvious from this report that the problem is getting bigger and bigger. The data says that in Croatia today about 18 thousand addicts are registered, and this is not really a real number because it is always said to be multiplied by 4 or 5, and 4 years ago, such persons were recorded somewhere around 13 thousand. So the number of addicts is constantly increasing and rising. We can figure it out, it's done a lot, and in the end, it obviously doesn't all give the desired results. The fact is that many entities in Croatia are dealing with this problem, from NGOs to government institutions, civil associations of citizens, parents, experts are being established. It's trying to secure money in both national and local budgets, and the result is not what it would like to be. It is precisely because many entities are involved in this problem, it is obvious that there is a need for the existence of one body that would coordinate all these activities. I think that with less money, we could achieve much better results. The report shows that during this period covered by this Report, in 2002 and 2003 respectively, the problem was identified and that it began to connect all entities dealing with this problem. However, it seems to me that the process is quite slow and is often burdened with some administrative problems. It is evident that in some ways the co-operation of the Government Office for the Prevention and Abuse of Drug Drug and Therapy Communities has started because I believe that the prevention programme involves, or associations involved in the Programme for Prevention of Drug Dependence and Communion. The fact is, and this is also pointed out in the report, that the key role of withdrawal from addiction has been played by the therapeutic community. The number of drug addicts addressing treatment communities is on the rise. The problem is the undefined legal status of the therapeutic communities and there is no specific ministry or body of the State Administration that would exercise control over the treatment community programme. There is another problem, there is another problem, that part of the institutions dealing with the problem of dependence related to budgetary resources, whether the state budget or local, and a whole series of civil associations, including the therapeutic communities, remain on the sidelines and in terms of funding, are found in different ways. I had the opportunity to visit several treatment communities, or communes, and I must admit that I remained fascinated in a positive sense by what I saw there. It was therefore an incomprehensible answer which I asked six years ago to my question at the County Assembly of Split-Dalmatia County, when I asked a question, and on the agenda was just the report on the work of the County Institute for Combating Dependence. And I asked the question why doesn't the Institute cooperate with the therapeutic communities and communities? The answer was that this was because the communal programs that were not based on Roman Catholic faith were being implemented, so parents rebelled. If that was the reason why the cooperation didn't start earlier, then the reason is really funny, because if I were by any chance a parent who has a child who's in trouble, I think I'd absolutely be on any of the principles of therapy, the sole goal would be for that child to get out of that problem. Therefore, it is obvious that Croatia has so far been quite wandering to try to find the most efficient way to fight addiction, but this report shows that the need for integration of all subjects dealing with this problem has been seen and that the last two years, or 2002-2003, which is the subject of this report, have been made significant shifts in this direction in order to exploit all available potentials in Croatia. This practice needs to continue even more intensively, and address all legal obstacles and indeterminates that may potentially make this cooperation more difficult to fully establish. After completing the rehab program in the treatment communities, treatment addicts face another problem, which is the problem of resociation. It seems to me that at that problem and at the state level, as well as at local levels, a little work has been done so far. The establishment of a centre for assistance in the resociation of addicts should be considered after the completion of the treatment programme in the therapeutic communities. The cured addicts have a problem and finding work, because unfortunately in our society there is a much more pronounced negative prejudice and mistrust toward people who have been through hell of drugs. There could also be local communities and should be more involved in solving this problem. Here's an example of how in the city of Makarska we met young people who had passed the rehab treatment. The city organized it as some kind of public work involving these young people. The effect was highly called upon, and they themselves pointed out that they were restored to self - confidence and human dignity. This project, unfortunately, lasted for a short time. Because by changing power, the new ruling set did not continue with the project. I believe that these and similar projects should remain the usual practice of cities and municipalities and should not depend on political will, because drugs have no political color, it does not choose its victims for political commitment, it does not happen to someone else, but is unfortunately around us. I'm sure it's prevention of the best drug medicine. So first of all education and this education from kindergarten to primary school, to secondary school, of course, according to special programs that will be adapted to certain age groups. Parents should also be involved in systematic education. All of this requires a sufficient number of professional and educated staff, and I think that's exactly what special attention should be paid, to educate and professionally train a sufficient number of people and teams who would then work on education of children, youth, parents, because I repeat education is the best and most effective way to fight drugs. Furthermore, it is necessary to make maximum efforts to prevent drug distribution, so that they become as difficult as possible on the drug market, i.e. to establish a more effective repressive fight against illegal drug trafficking. That's why the police should be as motivated as possible, because we're going to have as many results as the police are doing. And that's why there can't be any failures like it happened this year that the cops who seized large quantities of heavy intoxicating drugs didn't get the police's reward last year. Methadone therapy is a special story again. We're one of the few countries that because of the different opinion of the profession doesn't have a defined story about methadone therapy. It's precisely because of the undefined attitude that opens up a space that gives great possibilities to manipulations. And the data from the report is in favour of this claim, because it points to an increasing number of deaths due to methadone poisoning. In order to prevent the abuse of methadone, the methadone control commission to control the use of methadone substitution therapy should be drawn up as quickly as possible, and in a unique way to define the methods of distribution of methadone and control of the implementation of the substitution programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31746	Thank you, dear colleague. Replica, a respected colleague of Shime Luchin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31747	Thank you very much. I was encouraged by a colleague with this story about the therapeutic community. There's another illogicality in that report. So there's a growing number of those who go to the therapeutic community, and that's for every commendation, I think these people who work there should be given credit. But since only one-fifth of those who seem to have referred me to the therapy community last year have passed the detox program. Because that means that addicts are sent before they pass the detox program into therapeutic communities, and we know that they actually have to go through mandatory treatment. Because then obviously someone's breaking the law. So obviously in that space, it's actually a big problem. A fellow secretary of state says it's also HIV, so it's not an alarming increase. But the fact that the report said I don't know of the 5,000 that belong to the risk group, so the addict just didn't know one fifth of the test. Well, that's unacceptable if someone who's an addict who's known to be an addict can't be tested on HIV. Look, if a driver doesn't need a license to be tested, or you don't have to ask him to be tested for alcohol and drugs, then I don't understand why it's not tested for, say, a person who's a risk to HIV? Because at the end of the day, I don't think we have any valid data. This replica actually served me to show actually that in a series of data this report is insufficient. Not enough, and we don't have room for one valid comparative and state-of-the-art assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31748	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. There's a dear colleague, Mrs. Brnadić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I would say that I would support the government's report on the implementation of the national strategy for the repression and abuse of intoxicating drugs in the Republic of Croatia, only I am sorry that there are no colleagues in Stazic, since his criticism to the Government and ministers about this report is a bit of an empty shooting, as it is a government report for 2002 and 2003. I would not comment on statistical data and estimates in the 2002 and 2003 combination of the number of addicts, because unfortunately the number of addicts in Croatia is large and alarming, and it must once again be established that the involvement of all of the state, its institutions as well as outside the institutional networks, of the anti-dependence organisation in order to jointly oppose this plague of our time. This report shows that measures are largely taken in the national strategy to combat drug abuse and the Anti-intoxication Act. But despite everything done, there is no reduced number of incoming addicts, unfortunately it has also been significantly increased. So what's the problem? Why is the problem of drug addiction in the Republic of Croatia one of the most romantic problems of our time? We have to answer that question. I'm not going to talk about police and repression measures that the state needs to take to cut bids, I'm going to talk about preventive measures that the state needs to take to reduce demand, I think that's the key to solving this problem. I think the main problem, the problem is that families, young people, and ultimately addicts go to get information and help in the institution, instead of the institution coming to everyone before they even need it. All the institutions we have, which we pay to do their job, are obliged to do their job maximum. Their work should also be filled by addiction prevention centres, pedagogical teams by schools, school medicine teams, family medicine, church and ultimately the media, and especially the most powerful medium that is every day in every home, which is television but not that programs that confuse and poison youth go into prime terms but that teams of experts on television attract the attention of the most important work of our children's society, help them to understand the real values in life, what they need to pursue and how they should behave in all life situations. Again, the fundamental question is whether all competent institutions are taking all the measures available to them that young people always have in mind that drugs should not be tried, say no to drugs. In my entire prevention system, I believe that the most significant role of the county centres is to prevent and treat addiction. When based on the National Drug Control Strategy, the prevention of drug abuse and aid to drug addicts has been established since 1996, unfortunately until today they work in incomplete composition and mainly under inappropriate conditions. So it's been so many years, and this national strategy, this 2002 and 2003 report, is not paying enough attention that these centres have not provided working conditions. In order to protect the dignity of the employees of the centre, I must say that all the years since the founding up to this day have worked under the contract of work with an underprivileged captain and that, despite everything, they have achieved good results, not as we expect, thanks solely to our own enthusiasm, morality and love for every being. Only in 2003 was the amendment of the Health Protection Act and the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse intoxication Centres for Prevention of Dependence put them in the system of county public health institutions but unfortunately without a defined way of funding and teaming teams. All the centre's problems remain, hence the equal status of employees, the composition and number of teams and the funding model. Finally, in March 2004, the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Ministry of Health and Social Care developed a proposal for a network of centres, team composition, work programme, calculation and model financing, with the promise of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and Mr. Secretary of State on my parliamentary issue in the current morning at the beginning of this session, promised and secured for 2006 the financing of complete teams which can guarantee systematic and professional work in implementing all programmes from the National Strategy to combat drug intoxication with the ultimate goal of reducing the number of addicts. In line with the National Strategy to combat drug abuse, centres have directly assisted schools in their field in the formation of school preventive programmes with the aim of education of leaders of these programmes, and there is a particular problem that schools for school prevention program leaders are not defined by experts who are otherwise involved in teaching and psychological problems of young people at school and school children, but are mostly teachers who may be short of captains, who do not have full captains and are then trained to implement school preventive programmes. Education was from the field of communication, the face of stress, conflict resolution, decision-making how to say no, etc. The evaluation of the results obtained has shown exceptional satisfaction with the work of both leaders and students, and the ultimate goal was to train as many educators as possible to embody this form of work in everyday teaching. The only question remains whether all schools in Croatia systematically implemented these programmes because we do not have such data. Children in schools need to be taught about life which contributes to better self-actualization, socialization, self-esteem, and all other forms that children must get, thus protecting young people from psychological problems, behavioral disorders and ultimately protecting them from addiction. I would especially stress the role of parents since the birth of a child. Many parents need instruction and help to accept parenting responsibly, so when they accept how to raise a child, how to lead him to a self - conscious, confident, and responsible man. It's everything and every parent's hard work. In the entire system of prevention of risk behaviours and prevention of addiction, cooperation with parents through so-called “dependence” should be improved. parenting schools. And the only way to get to a parent is through kindergarten and school. Finally, in order to achieve better results and to reduce the number of new addicts, I believe that we should continue intensively to cooperate with the Centre for Prevention of Dependence with teachers and expert teams of schools through permanent education and workshops as a mandatory part of the educational programme and help them to create their prevention programmes year after year, engage them in the animation of parents for cooperation, which is a very important aspect because many parents are not willing to cooperate and intensively implement all programmes and guidelines from the national strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31750	Thank you, dear colleague. Replica esteemed colleague Lugaric. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31751	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I agree with most of the exposure given by my colleague. I'd just like to look back at three details. About this financing of county and city centres, which is now going through the Croatian Institute of Public Health, we in the 2005 budget, and so it was in 2004 that we have secured an amount of 8.5 million kuna. When we were making a budget for 2004, I warned of this problem, among other things, I wrote an amendment to increase it. That's when the secretary of state promised me that it would be in the 2005 budget. The 2005 budget came, these funds remained at the same level, so I share your hope and believe that it will really be in 2006 because it is a really big problem. As far as school is concerned, we should also say that we as advocates must do much more. This year it was planned for education and permanent training of teachers and teachers of 10 million kuna for primary school teachers and 5 million kuna for high school teachers. Not a single lip was spent and evidence that there was money was that Minister Primorac returned more than 300 million kuna to the Treasury with 31.12. So I ask you, therefore, that these attitudes that you have today and today you have in mind and in the same way that you think about them when and when we are going to bring the state budget report and when we are going to discuss the State budget report because I repeat again, the fight against drugs, the fight against addiction as well as most other things cannot be effectively solved by appeals, compassions, beliefs but can be done in Croatia as well as anywhere in the world costs money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31752	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31753	Thank you very much. I'm glad and I was hoping that my colleague Lugaric would agree to my presentation. Of course, the problem of financing the centres and otherwise the education program in schools is really big. However, I must tell you that I come from the Institute of Public Health, I am the director of the Institute of Public Health in Zadar, and I am very well aware of the work of the centre and people from the centre say that not everything is in the money, that there are schools that work very well with the centre and implement programs and come to workshops for education of educators. Unfortunately, however, there are many schools that these programs do not want to implement because they have no will, no desire, no meaning. And finally, I think that money is not a basic problem in the implementation of the program at school, but the will of teaching workers and school principals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31754	Thank you, dear colleague. We're continuing the debate. It's time for my dear colleague, Roxandić. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31755	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues are already very much told here today about this report, but I must point out that many of the measures in this National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2002 and 2003 have been taken and implemented which must really make us happy. Because the increase in drug addiction is related to social and economic problems in society. And we've seen from a whole series of monitoring that this report also contains data on the number of addicts in 2002 and 2003. But as the rapporteurs themselves say, these allegations cannot be compared because there is no systematic monitoring of this issue, so I would pray that it is finally starting to follow because it will make it easier for all of us to discuss and do something about this problem at all. The problem of addiction, though it is first among young people, is still not in the public as much as we want, often perceived as something that we all have to deal with just about everyone in the family, school, health care, media and associations. Despite all the activities we've heard here today here now here's the last replica in schools is still being implemented with the ministry's cooperation by this preventive programme. There are school county coordinators whose job is really to educate everyone. Not only from teachers, but also from auxiliary staff so that what happened to us back in the '90s in one of my schools when she found some weird powder under the table, so she didn't want to report it so the school wouldn't come out in a bad way. Now you're really doing everything. Great progress has been made, therefore, a major step in this. The report shows that in recent years we have faced a dramatic increase in various problems and difficulties related to the increasing consumption of psycho-active substances. Growing up the drug problem and I'm going to say something and compare it and in my county has become all present and, with the urgent resolution and inclusion of all the relevant factors, we need to look at all the problems to determine the basic directions, preventive therapeutic actions, and we need to agree and we agree today in this debate a very demanding job. The start of taking these drugs and I would say the opiate of all is related to the quality of life, unfortunately and personality of individuals, and the direct impact of the environment. There are also a whole series of factors that increase the risk of drug use. The relationship between drug laws and availability, so the offer we've heard a lot about here today. A social attitude toward the use of a means of addiction, where the problem of alcohol is particularly highlighted. Quality and health social education educational prevention program. And in the end, we have to say one life philosophy of young people who is present and we could define it here as, here now and just once, so try everything we can. Unfortunately, when comparing data on addiction in the Republic of Croatia and in my county, therefore in Sisak and Sisak Moslavina County, I must say that in the last five years our area has increased the offer of psychoactive assets. On average, as many as 15% of young people who are worrying in 2003 have been offered some psycho-active means compared to 98 since we in the county systematically follow this data. On occasion, the number of those who were consumed was also increasing, so not just drugs. Here is the most risky group and I am pleased and I will agree with my colleague, Czechok, who is not there, but I can see that there is no colleague Lugaric, and she gives alcohol the same big problem. The most risky group of young people in alcohol consumption in us you won't believe in are 16 girls. Which is very worrying. Alcohol consumption is neglected compared to the consumption of other pseudo-active drugs and this problem has reached a ratio and results that more than 70% of young people aged 15 to 18 are at any time or at times drinking alcohol. In order to achieve the main principles of the national strategy, good programmes should be developed, which will rely primarily on the following. On a programme to reduce availability. The programme of prevention for children and youth and the programme, above all, of an effective rehabilitation treatment system, and I would like to agree here with some colleagues above all to include those who are cured addicts in normal social life. Until last year, this serious system of problems was resolved in each of the counties in a different way and according to the programmes of individual teams on the ground. So we started to fight this problem by setting up first the county commission to prevent the abuse of intoxicating funds. Then through the establishment of a counselling center for prevention of addiction. In 2004, counterpart Brnadic also said by changing the law, there was a reorganisation of the system, a fight against addiction, through an organised system in the county public health institutions, which is an excellent shift in the realisation of all important programmes from the state strategy. The entry into the state system guarantees, above all, and provides in a way and an organisation at state level as well as systematic monitoring and supervision of the implementation of the necessary measures. There have been many results and we have seen this in this report for the work of some associations whose activity I have no doubt. Every intention in this area is welcome, but it has not been able to control food are various workshops the work of various associations that led people on the ground at all qualified for it, or they were just well-intentioned volunteers who often believe were not able to deal with the problem and answer the demanding questions that were asked. Although I eventually praised this organised system since last year's fight against addiction and the establishment of teams within the County Public Health Office. I need to notice something and maybe make a suggestion. I think it's a slightly unfair system that determines teams relative to the number of addicts. So it's our county we're lucky we're not at the top by the number of addicts either treated or dead or even those like some county that are here as Istrianly distinguished. She was granted the right to finance half of it, although the aim of the national anti-dependence programme is, above all, preventive work. Therefore, the basic standard should still be a full team. And that means a doctor and a nurse and a psychologist and a psychiatrist and a social worker. Because they should all be involved in the prevention process. And then depending on the size of the existing problem with the number of addicts, maybe other experts should be completed. These teams should certainly cooperate with school medicine doctors they are still cooperating. But that splinter should be tighter. And I can say something we said here and we heard that everything needs to be financed from the state budget, and I'm also in favour of increasing these funds. But I think this basic team standard, which as a standard team, should also be financed by those additional problems and programmes. And I could do that just as well as the local community could. Because she needs to get involved intensively in solving this problem. So I come from a county that is not too rich but invests a lot every year in solving and using work and counselling centres and additional teams that are not standard and are not involved in the financing of the state budget. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31756	Thank you, dear colleague. There's a dear colleague, Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31757	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. By observing and looking at this report, we can conclude that it is really similar to previous reports since I took part in the debate on them. We all expect the true state of affairs in the Republic of Croatia as far as addiction is concerned, but from this report we can't get to the right state, we can't even get to the right data because due to the lack of systematic data recording in healthcare institutions, this figure of 18 thousand 476 addicts who are really worrying must be multiplied by three, five, even someone says several times. The only thing that's satisfactory from this report is the number of heroin addicts 850 to a thousand 48. However, the public is still high, so we have a thousand new ones annually in 2002 and 2003. It is evident that mortality is also increased. Addiction must be concluded by our national and most alarming problem, since there is a trend in the growth of drug supply in the world. Despite the great color of addicts, there is a trap in society, which is not recognising the problem of drugs and addiction as a wider problem of the community. In our society, 87% of the family is afraid of drugs. Anyone can become a drug victim, and there's no real protection here. Therefore, the public needs to be sensitised and the problem of addiction should be brought closer to every person in order to participate actively in this. The way you get close to a man, the predecessors talk from the media and the rest, so you wouldn't want to repeat yourself. We have before us a cry for young people to help them and their families. We can treat the drug as a chronic relapsing brain disease, there's no complete healing. Recitals are common, the problem of resociation exists, and the problem of professionals who will deal with the problem. Chronic relapse is also alcoholism. In 2002, it was given one piece of information. A colleague named Lalic in 2003, I found in 2002, one piece of information that Croats smoke 12 tons of marijuana, enjoy half a ton of heroin and 150 kilos of cocaine. It's not a ton, it's probably pounds. Profits are measured in several hundred million euros, so it's a million-dollar industry. Most addicts have no real knowledge of the impact of drugs on their system but are easily available. And one table of ecstasy today is 20 kuna, one joint marijuana is 10 kuna, crack 50 euros, a little more modern, a gram of cocaine 600 kuna, etc. More and more, of course, depends on the allowance, or the financial power of the parents. Because of the low price, some types of drugs are accessible to both high school and basics. Children first encounters with drugs have gentlemen in 7th or 8th grade primary school. The number of consumers and addicts is constantly increasing, the age limit is shrinking, the most productive part of the community is affected, and we are left with a sick generation that is completely losing its psychophysical ability, and we often call for the politics of birth. Of these, all of them follow infectious diseases both hepatitis C and B and Aids, which, a colleague said should be tested, of course legal options you don't have to force someone to test and test but we're in that House so we need to write such a law. And I was facing myself where I suspected I should run that test, so I wasn't able and it was probably AIDS positive. Fortunately, here are more tests on C hepatitis, but unfortunately 70% of addicts are C hepatitis and 27% of B hepatitis. In my area at the Bjelovar-Bihogorje Police Administration in 2003, 65 different types of drugs were seized. According to data on species, quantities and confiscations of cannabis products are far the most represented drug species and in total color the seized are participated by 80%. However, indicators and information from my field speak in favour of the emergence and growing interest in the consumption of synthetic drugs, mostly extases and speeds, i.e. Anphedamine and their derivatives. The drugs aren't just gentlemen in town, they're in the country. And the village, the people where they meet where they hang out are milk stations. In the Bjelovar area last year, half a kilo of heroin was found at such a station. In our field of concern and an increasing number of seized synthetic drugs are mostly extasia. If it is calculated to get two to three ecstasy tablets or two to three grams of marijuana, it is clear why extazi is chosen. The second ecstasy is in our society and, young ones go to rave so-called. Techno parties, ecstasy with its effects is simply following that kind of music. In the field, parents ask questions as to why their child takes drugs, or why he sells drugs. Can the police take more care of their children? How's he gonna know their kid's taking drugs and stuff? And then, in conclusion, associations appear to reduce the damage in such places and their only task is to provide cold water, because the cold water in them is closing and teaching them and giving them flyers, telling them about drug harmfulness and providing liquid drinking water today. Young people cite curiosity, availability of drugs at an acceptable price, economic factor, desire to earn money and others, taking it out of abundance and boredom. After completing school and obtaining work qualifications, they do not think about existential problems or creating their own home, they have a carefree life, fun life, drugs, late awakening, a glass of alcohol, smoke cigarettes, a joint, etc. Moral values have been lost in society, the system of values has been disrupted, possibly contributing to a difficult economic situation. The second monster of our society, and I'm glad that's what we're talking about here, that's what alcoholism is all about, that one part I dare say even neglects. In the past debates, I remember we kept saying that 50% of the accidents were caused by alcoholics. We probably have that law in our subconscious, so we don't mention it anymore. Compared to earlier research, boys drink twice as much, girls five times as much. Each seventh student drank a liter of beer or more during his last drink. And that shows that drinking and drinking trends have increased. The basic right of all of us gentlemen is the right to a healthy life, which means fighting drugs, tobacco and alcohol. And finally, listen, we all agreed that the best solution in prevention is family, kindergarten, school, college, with a multidisciplinary approach to curbing this evil. In 2003 more money entered the offices and NGOs, and less in state health institutions where we can say little professional staff that could treat or advise addicts. And in my hospital regionals, I face this problem, from the need of a colleague who I could just say and avoid. They give help but are not educated for further treatment of addicts. The best results in the fight against addiction will show up when we work much more on prevention because today in my county, the number of addicts has tripled with increased property crime. Police should reduce availability and curb smuggling of the famous "Balkan Route", of course with further education and police, as well as with material technical assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31758	Thank you, dear colleague Caparin. It's my buddy's turn. He's gone. It's time for my dear colleague, Bacic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31759	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here after this long debate on the report on the implementation of the national strategy to combat drug abuse, I would already say in the introduction that I am somehow not fit to say abuse. I'd say use, use intoxicating drugs. And what my colleague Chehok said, we are discussing a strategy that is already behind us. We've heard a lot about the drug problem today, and we all know it, but nothing's happening. Drugs go on, that monster is harassing our society like he does in neighbouring countries and in the whole world. But what we can actively do here, whether we have any will to solve this problem at all, or to repeat every year statistics on how evil it is on the rise and where we have failed as a society, as an institution, as a finally responsible government. I'd go back to the beginning. We've defined that drug abuse is a disease, but that disease starts consciously, by its own free will, it's not a disease like other diseases. It therefore goes into another category towards other addictions to alcohol, smoking, etc. So it's a disease that shouldn't have even arised and now what to do to prevent it. There were a lot of words about prevention, and most importantly I think that Ivanis said well, it is primarily the role and responsibility of parents, so from a family, a school that has to be more educational, and not just educational, and there we have failed, about the importance of sport which is very important, not only of a top-notch but also of this mass in which to invest and simply not allow a child to have free time for some things that can lead him on the wrong path, but that this energy when in development is usually at puberty to turn into the useful part that will in some way be the basis for his healthy development. I would remind you when I was talking about the will, if we wanted to solve something, then I would remind you if we were already medics here and in some ways our only representative of the Ministry of Health is here, and I think you should be a representative of the Ministry of Interior and a representative of the Ministry of Education and Education, and also a representative of the Ministry of the Family, because it can't be solved by one ministry. The Ministry of Health solves only drug addicts as patients, and everyone else has to deal with other things from prevention to good management and what's most dangerous is this distribution and distribution of drugs. And now back to our responsibility. Where's the dope going? In all places except the church. From apartments, apartments, streets, schools, kindergartens, cafes and disco clubs. Can you control that? Well, he can, and he can do it very effectively. If you remember some countries have a strict ban on drinking to underage people and anyone who violates them is severely punished. I've never seen anyone punish us, if proven to be in his coffee shop or in the disco club, they're dealing drugs. So there may be measures, and I believe that, first of all, the laws must be very clear, the powers of the Ministry of the Interior, or the police must be much tighter and what I think is necessary, and that is what my colleague Ivanis said, we are now faced with a big problem and I think there should be special departments or special police structure, as we have traffic police, and we have developed it when the number of cars has grown. So sometimes traffic was solved by ordinary cops, but when it was seen that they couldn't master it in their business then was founded by a special segment, a special one structure and I think it's necessary and now do it and what's faster that results will be better. So here I think it's just about the will, whether we want it or we're just going to figure it out in passing that I don't think we should be able to afford it, and finally we have to take those measures that are available to us and then we can expect this evil to start to stop. It's hard to say that we're going to... we're going to completely destroy drugs in our society, but we have to strive to keep these percentages as small as possible. So we are left with the only battle left to see in the current laws what is missing, what is not good and what has to be done to make the efficiency of all those who deal with this evil as best and as great as possible. And that's why I don't think we should use big words from strategies, national ones, these ones, we should simply implement existing laws, and we should if we do, and I think we need to define things more clearly. I personally feel that drugs can't be divided into easy and heavy. Every drug is dangerous, it's cheating that small or some occasional drug use that's transient. Once that circle is entered, it's going down to hell and there's no way out of it. If we are to combat this evil I say we must apply both harsh measures and repressive measures, because otherwise we will not deal with this problem with mild measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31760	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. Replica, dear colleague Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31761	Thank you very much. It can only be done for supplementation. In the interior ministry's structure, more specifically, the police department at the CRIM Police Administration has a special department dealing with drug trafficking. What exactly is this about? It is possible to extend powers to that department and to better train it in terms of material, etc. etc. But what you're saying is not to define and distinguish easy and heavy drugs. It is these people who deal with this work that are too burdened with the capture of these consummations that must be conducted by law by the whole criminal act, that is, how it is done in pre-examination proceedings for criminal proceedings. At the same time, it's a drug, and that's what you need to know. That's where it's been determined that we have a slight drop in drug-related crimes. But if you have a drug-related drop in crime, then that only means one thing to you, which is that the police at that point are doing less because your drugs are such a segment of crime, it belongs to you so-called. The gray zone. The more you do you have more results, because simply logic if the police don't go to the street, don't go to drug dealers, there won't actually be any results among the junkies. I'm only saying what I think should, when it comes to this, possibly do the following to the authorities, or if we only want to talk about this department like the Danes and the Portuguese did, it actually increases that they would be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31762	Thank you very much. Replication response, dear colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31763	Well, I mean exactly what my colleague Lucin said. I think that in that segment it should also extend institutionally that department and strengthen it numerically, but also make it more efficient by adding these larger and stronger powers and by connecting it with the judicial authority. That, in a way, when the police arrest a drug dealer that this trial goes one way short, that it's like a special process, that the name of a priority over other cases of ordinary litigation, so-called, and that there is no statute of limitations, of seizing proceedings. So if we were to be more efficient in that whole chain than the police to the judgmental decisions, then I think the results would be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31764	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bacic. It's next, dear colleague Kramarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I, as well as some colleagues so far, have to show a certain amount of skepticism that I am not really quite sure what is being achieved by all these discussions. I've been sitting in this House for quite a long time and lately these discussions about our strategies in the repression of intoxicating drugs have increased, the number has increased, but I don't think that, after these discussions we've changed somewhat more significantly in reality. So something's going on. What's happening isn't good, it's bad. Then we only find it at these ritual sessions, and in the meantime as things stand, and as statistics show us things are even more dramaticly getting worse. And then probably that as the serious people who are here, the expression of the political will of our citizens, that we should change something. And that, and I think it's about time that the team, let's just say from the word that it finally goes to action. We think that, I don't think we've made any more radical moves yet. We are witnessing that in public, in the media in some way dominates that there are still conceptal and methodological differences how to treat addiction, whether the people who run it are the best, whether these methods that we serve are optimal. And I'm saying, the problem is still, in the meantime, just multiplying. I certainly don't belong as a man who is, sharing a liberal worldview to advocate repression. Don't let God get that feeling, but if politics were to take over their share of responsibility, I don't think anyone should be convinced of that. Because in the end, we, however, as the most legislative body, have the opportunity to bring some solutions that would be something, which would be significantly different from these existing ones and that would really try to change this situation in society. This does not mean that the problem of drugs did not exist before, but in changes in the society of the political system, the problem in some way detabouring many topics. Just as, in addition to these, privatisation and the bad consequences of privatisation, a certain way of life, action and the freedom to write about it and drugs have come and it has proved that it has not really passed Croatia. And certain events in our recent history have just favored the drug itself to become one of those fundamental evils that shakes this society. We can really talk now and simply say that this problem is not only possible to light up from one level, but that obviously, that it is more complex, that the problem of hopelessness, depression, imperceptibility, that a large number of young people in particular do not feel, sees no future. That all of this actually suits us to have this situation in Croatia that we have. I do, too, and it also seems to me that when I analyse it the same way, when I remember all of our discussions, we have to admit that we've made some mistakes like this and we haven't figured out how many times our discussions have been out of time and space and haven't hit the real point of things. I recall my colleague Ivanish's debate, it seems to me 2, 3 years ago when he was also like the man who came from this world of medicine was warned that he was not, that the most dangerous is just one of those divisions of easy and heavy drugs. She is a statistical cause there is so she is considered something easy, and something is considered heavy, but as far as I can't exactly quote my colleague Ivanish right now, but he was already then saying that every time a heavy drug leads through easy drugs and no one starts with heavy drugs, but this is exactly the way he goes from easy to heavy. And sometimes these discussions of ours almost as if they've kind of amnested the fact that even easy drugs are present in our markets. And precisely because the situation is becoming more difficult and more dramatic recently in the City Administration of Osijek we have actually made one meeting between politics, the City Administration, the Police and the Centre for, or experts working at the Center for Dependence. And let's also try to actually miss the same thing from this local level certain answers to what's happening to us in society. Of these, where these tragic statistics that many say are just actually the tip of the ice dream, that the situation is even more dramatic. And the fact that drugs are already ticking in primary schools, in high schools, that this population between 14 and 18 years old means that it is the most present in these statistical causes and that something needs to be done on its own side. The one that seems to me, it's exactly one big space that exists, that's exactly our school system. And already when we're doing these new education strategies, that we can certainly pay a lot of attention to school, which in some ways, is some of them suggesting an object that might not be bad. But also teachers and teachers are often more with our children than parents themselves. They can also notice the first way to find out, detect that something is going on that is wrong and yes, but we are always receiving that and motivation and training and that education now. I just think, so instead of repressive methods to make this educational approach more optimal and to bring certainly better results, but it can't, I say, just leave it at will, in the free will space whether someone wants it to react or not. We've had these winter holidays of school, and then I feel the same way that I'm familiar with what's going on in schools, that you, that some workshops have been done that have been dealing with a lot of passing topics that work just like some strange people from some strange associations come and have a ministry certificate so that there, I don't know, I can talk about violence or some other things. And let's just say this particular topic, the topic of drugs, is clearly not that our ministry is not too impressed and that again in the old good custom, I say, we're dealing with some, the topics are serious, but those who should have absorbed these topics in the first place belong to a rydiculous world, not a world that today would be at the level of Croatian school in the 21st century. And what was actually in those meetings was quite clear, which we had already warned about several times. You know, if in the world drugs are assumed, and that's said to be an underrated figure, it's about 200-thousands if not more than millions of euros. To turn it around, to turn around. And we're trying to fix it... correct it seems to me 12, 13, 15 million kuna, then the war is really lost in advance. Then we'll find again, perhaps in a few months or a few years, and we'll reassess this very devastating statistics that will worry us, we'll be protesting here. And I'm afraid until it really is a kuna or a euro per euro that really doesn't stand a chance. And I think just those addiction centers need to be encouraged, they need to be trained, they really need to be introduced inside the school by this particular stimulant that teachers, teachers, school management will also in some way motivate them to monitor what is happening to them with the students. And these people, the experts told me that the great results, or good results, gave this very, very hint of testing. Well, they say, I don't know, in Osijek, it's customary for every school trip that goes to some countries where drugs are known to come easily to be said to be tested before and after they return. That when it really does, it shows that then, that itself, the fact that you will be tested in some way acts preventively and yet young people give up on the fact that they are detected as drug users. And normally what, where one big problem has also proved itself, is the relationship between the police and the judiciary, that police are finding some things, but then in this world, the mechanism of justice that actually those big fish are simply being excluded from it, and that the whole thing is actually breaking down on young people who very often really... Curiosity, or from exactly one depressing state. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's take this step further, let's see what else this national strategy can contain, let's get a little bit more rid of these unnecessary media bickerings that cheat and blame actually presentations of this whole problem, and let's try to find the right mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31766	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31767	Dear Mr Vice President, let me briefly refer to this presented report on the implementation of the strategy, not the strategy, but the implementation of the strategy against addiction. So what's in this strategy, unfortunately, we can read the most important thing about the situation is that it's better than worse, and that's what different data tell us, different variables tell us about the growth of the number of addicts, that the average age of addicts, that there's an increasing number of deaths from overdose, and that from year to year, there's a growing number of pregnant women who are addicts and therefore the consequences of their offspring, i.e. children. But what I would like first to draw attention to is that I therefore agree with those who pointed to extreme importance or put prevention first, so to this fight against addiction. I agree, so with them. And it's a shame that there's no one here from the Ministry of Education and Education, so science, that they also accept, so they're giving instructions to some advice and this debate of ours today, and a lot of these tips have just been going on in the sense that in the curriculum and the program, therefore, they're involved. introduce a specific subject that deals with this topic. It is now a real opportunity, because we know, therefore, that in the process of making a catalogue of knowledge about the ministry and in this way the ministry could also receive one piece of advice on how to supplement or change this catalogue of knowledge. Also related to the Ministry of Education and the process of discharging which can also significantly affect perhaps a potential reduction in the number of addicts. Because we know that this system of education, which is very burdensome for primary and secondary school students, causes them to experience daily frustrations which, at their sensitive psychological age, can lead to false steps at the age of adolescence. As far as education is concerned, we must note that the data tells us that the number of students who use, therefore, or try intoxicating, is increasing year by year. It reduces the chronological age when they first come into contact with an addictive agent. So in the report itself, here's the first time it appears, so the border that's registered is 14 years. It's been 16 so far. It's 14 years. And here we even have information in the item that speaks of sex and age of treated addicts. That under the age of 14 such treated addicts were 10. I think that's quite a bit of a concern, so there's a lot to be done in that part of it. The data is also that up to 24 years almost in that group is almost 50% addicts. As far as prevention is concerned. It should also be noted here that more than 51% of patients treated in the hospital in 2003 belong to a group of unemployed or who have a part-time job, so this same unemployment is the same source of frustration that they should all make together, so to ensure a stronger economic growth so that such unemployed and potential users or addicts can do anything less. In addition to that first part that is related to the Ministry of Education and Education, this is therefore the second part that is very important, the third part of a criminal policy or repression which must therefore be harmonised. The second part is the treatment of an addict who belongs to the Ministry of Health. I'd like to warn you about two things here, so as far as the treatment itself is concerned, it's a matter of control, so tracking those addicts that I don't think are good, so it's not done properly, because, as we have, we have a huge increase in deaths since the overdose, in the 98th year there were 37 deaths, 99. 61, 2000. 74, 2001. 77, 2002. 86, and in 2003, as many as 95 deaths were from drugs. I warn here, therefore, that the main cause of death in overdose was therefore a heroin overdose of 52%, and what is particularly interesting, which should be paid particular attention to, therefore, is the occurrence that death cases at 40% were caused by methadone, so methadone therapy is treatment with drug withdrawal therapy. So we can conclude that there is an increasing abuse of methadone, as well as the need for an algorithm to issue methadone, so let's just put it under control that these addicts are benefiting from that methadone, and not that it causes them deaths, these are the data from this report. So the third part is criminal policy or repression. I also don't think it's the way it's supposed to be. And I agree with those who advocate decriminalisation, so possession of intoxicating drugs, that's how the judicial system is stifled. While those who join together to earn money, they remain most of the time out of punishment for drug waste. That's what the data in the table tells us, where according to Article 173(4), which speaks, in fact, paragraph 3 of the association, according to that article, 113 perpetrators were reported, 94 and only 29. So a small number of those who were guilty of something were also convicted. And there is also an item 6 that speaks of giving drugs to a child or a minor, out of the reported 114, 49 were convicted. So at first, I was talking about how we have to be very careful about what's going on around our schools. Here, today I also found an article that says that convicted several of these dealers in Split. They were sentenced to a total of several, their total sentence was 6 years and 3 months. The punishment was from two years apart to a year and a half, and what's interesting is I'm going to read "the dealers of the Hill were tried because in April last year they bought drugs from an unknown person and hid it at a drug point at the Brda elementary school." So that tells us all about where our drug checkpoints are, and apparently that the court didn't take it as a difficult circumstance. In my opinion, they would have had to get very severe punishments and they had received small sentences and were released to the power of judgment. I think it's also the same message, a negative message that we can read in different ways, but I don't think that's how our judiciary works. Here, and in the end, only through the coordinated work of these three components of this programme can we effectively fight against the addiction that is very burdensome for our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31768	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his speech, Pavlic pointed out one correlation, in fact, the link between the burden on school programs replicating it in a way that, at least as I understood it, bringing it in such a way that the discharge of the school programme might have a positive impact on the students themselves and on the possibility that drug consumption in that population would be reduced. I would actually take the opposite view based on my experience in schoolwork. I was the headmaster of a school that was actually based on students' musical tendencies, so I was the headmaster of art school. And I have to say that those kids who go over 50 hours a week because they go to two schools very often. I think that among them is the least of the problems of drug consumption. If we compare that with athletes who also have sports high school, who also train twice a day plus attending regular classes, so they don't actually have free time because they only deal with what they like, then we can really say that these kids are at least prone to this kind of behavior, or at least they're prone to drugs. So one controlled behavior in free time is much better than uncontrollably free time. It really leaves for thinking first and foremost on how parents will direct their children, what activities they will engage in, which they will deal with in life, which hobbies, etc. So I think it's exactly the opposite of that attitude of yours burdening children in a positive sense burden with what they like actually will give a certainly much better result than to leave them alone with free time that they don't know how to meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31770	Thank you. Mr. Pavlic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31771	That's exactly what I was thinking. When I talk about discharging, I mean discharging those programs where kids don't really want to learn. However, they should also be given the opportunity to do what they are pleased with, not what they do not accept and what they reject, and they have to spend a lot of time working out some curricula and program.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31772	Thank you very much. The replica of Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31773	Thank you very much. I really don't understand this fact that this percentage of mortality from overdose is caused by the methadone. Clearly, it is easy to determine the responsibility of why. I don't know what practice it is now, I'm not an expert and get into whether methadone yes or no but I remember when I used to deal with addicts a long time ago actually if he'd come to the infirmary and only then he could see me in the infirmary, then I'd be with him. The nurse would put it in his mouth, he'd drink it, then she'd check it out if he hadn't hidden it under his tongue, etc. So it's not clear to me at all how methadone, so doctors who conduct methadone therapy obviously don't respect the rules of the profession, and maybe it wouldn't be bad for the secretary of state to tell us something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31774	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31775	The answer is that these data that I've provided are correct. In 2002, the cause of death by type of drug is therefore 36.4% and 39.4% in 2003. This problem has been warned for a long time, unfortunately, of this problem, the solution to this problem has not triggered any concrete steps, and it still today is causing such negative consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31776	Thank you very much. It's Mr. representative of the Jure Bithunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! The report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2002 and 2003 is more than one statistical presentation for me, one statistical report than just a report, especially if we are and I believe that we are all present to have read the conclusion of the report itself, where I personally expected certain guidelines that would point to finding new ways in prevention, the treatment of drug addicts. Let me just say a few words, put out a few thoughts of my own. The drug destroys an individual, it destroys his personality, his personality. In some ways, the fundamental values of the young or the girl who carried it in them, which were passed on by their parents to them, are absolutely questionable and defacto they give up all of those traditional, universal values that they acquired through education in school and society. In this way they reduce the individual's chances but they also reduce the individual's chance to be a useful member of the social community tomorrow, to be a member of the family, to create a family, and therefore it's a big problem that is being imposed and in which all social groups, all environments in some way are susceptible and we here in the Assembly, given that we're all parents, or we're either gonna be or we're in the potential to be, they're guessing both those successful and those who didn't have a chance or who didn't know how to take the right opportunity to affirm ourselves as a person. I would also mention that we have sometimes witnessed that it is in the press, so I can say that there are certain political crackdowns on drugs, their legalisation, preventions, etc. And also those people, those individuals who work in prevention and each in their own way, given that they have different methods, then we come into one situation to read in the press that they object or dispute to each other in other words. I can freely say that in some ways each one of his theories on this matter seeks to show optimal, better than another. It's not a common case, but I'm a witness and I followed it through the press and read a lot in the paper. It bothered him by listening to all these discussions where members of the Croatian Armed Forces are somehow trying to put in some context although in the very report there it is evident that drugs are present today when it comes to the Croatian army only in the hand centres. In fact, there come young men who carry with them certain habits, certain frustrations, and that is it. The role of NGOs here is mentioned and I would also point out their role in prevention. But what is not mentioned and perhaps not even a place in the report to mention it is also a special part of the church in prevention. It is understandable in some way since the Catholic Church and other confesional communities promote universal lasting values, and that is exactly the kind of teaching I would say by affirming the general good, helping individuals primarily young people to find their meaning of life and in some way to turn to themselves to turn to something universal that connects people and that drugs alcohol and other things try to reject and leave. In my view, however, the role of the ministries of the role of this Assembly should be far more significant and greater that there is still enough space in the state budget and other ways to engage and in some way to develop only a strategy to implement it. In particular, I would like to emphasise the need to introduce preventive programmes in the school's curricula and final classes of primary schooling. As they did, the report also mentions Ireland, Greece, Spain and other countries. And I think that would be kind of a big benefit to prevention when it comes to drugs. Certainly, the police, the state's attorney's office and otherwise the Department of Justice can be even more effective in countering itself, although we must be aware that we live in time to live in a space where no matter how many police seized drugs that she's back where she's being produced, where she's being produced to come again. And that she'll come and then it's later reflected on the possible price of drugs on the market. Just quitting and in general, I believe that it should be absolutely under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, because it is the only guarantee of permanent stability and long-term solution to this issue. I think that, otherwise, returning to life in resociation should in some way help all associations of individuals and companies that hire these people who have retired. Thank God they need to be preserved when their anonymity is needed. In any case, I believe that the challenges that are ahead of us are that they are great to us as parliamentary representatives and also to the government that we must give the right answers. And try to somehow keep that evil under control. Thank God we'd all be glad to completely eradicate it. But the opiate issue goes back to the old age, so this issue will remain permanently present and it should somehow be fought by all means and mechanisms. There's so much Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31778	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Frano Piploic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31779	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Between the number of lists of this report on the implementation of the drug abuse strategy in the Republic of Croatia, during the period 2002, 2003 and the number of drug users in the same period there is one positive correlation. The more pages of them the 151st seems to me, it seems to be more of the drug use itself. This could then be interpreted in a way that we have described problems in this past period more or less without solving them. Last week, we discussed here in the Parliament a major disease of social illness, a social illness of corruption. And I personally said in my debate that Croatia had been declared by corruption by an internal war, a secret war, in fact Croatia was attacked from within. And this enemy is pretty dangerous because it's invisible and easy to hide, metamorphosis and so on. Analyzingly, we can say that when we take drugs as well as one, we can say that once again we have one attack on society in Croatia that we can call that inside is attacked but attacked and on the side of those who place drugs in the territory of Croatia, and on the other hand, they themselves are the users of this internal attack. So drugs have endangered and endangers modern Croatian society, endangers families, endangers individuals. And in fact, they've already started ringing bells on the general danger. The question arises that after 8 years it means we have eight years of a national strategy to combat drug abuse, which I have obtained, what results it has given. One also wonders, since we have a National Strategy whether we have and what is our system of implementation of this National Strategy. The fundamental question is why in Croatia the number of drug addicts is spreading gallopingly. It seems to me that this debate and all the other debates must give an answer. When the focus is revealed and the reason why drugs are so present in our society, in our families in different parts, then we will be able to prescribe the recipe and treatment more easily. The main elements of our National Strategy are relying on means that it is creating legal frameworks, developing a network of state institutions, developing a network of civil institutions, or associations, and programmes to prevent addiction. Each of these elements has its own weight, but in this report we don't really see what the connection between all of these elements is. Is there any quality of this relationship? It seems to me that there should be reasons for insufficient efficiency that we want to achieve in the fight against the drugs themselves in these areas. These are elements of the strategy, however, as the analysis itself says. In the analysis, if you follow closely, you will see that over this observed period we have a steady growth of drug addicts. Furthermore, if by age the most numerous of those addicts between 16 and 30 are actually the world of our youth there are the most used, which drugs. Furthermore, working status is primarily unemployed, making up 50% of those who consume drugs. In fact, between drug growth and unemployment growth, there is also one positive correlation. The next by-ranking numbers according to their working status are employed by 20% while students make up 13, students 6.5% of the opportunity 20% of the waste on this student student population, which is indeed a worrying data. For all of this for the following reasons, we can actually see that drugs are largely social, or socially conditioned and therefore it has this trend of expansion and growth in these areas. The following characteristics and what we read from this analysis are that men are three and a half times more consumers, more drug consumption than women themselves. Furthermore, during the observed period, we see that the number of deaths from drugs has increased, that each year it means that this number of deaths is growing. This has already been mentioned by colleagues here during the debate. It is very important that we spent 35 million kunas in the implementation of the national strategy in this observation. It's big money from colleagues and colleagues, and we're just rightly wondering if this money was spent in one proper way, if this money could have done a lot more than it's done. In the implementation of this strategy we have several factors on which it is actually based, which is police. It seems to me, and that's what my colleagues here and here have said that police are like one factor in preventing drug trafficking in this area, that she's the one who did the most. We have a lot of reports that show that large quantities of drugs have been seized. A man wonders how many things have not been discovered. It is the courts that have tried, schools, institutions, families, churches and all other institutions that I mentioned here at the beginning as a social framework, social institutions that should carry prevention programs. You can't see how effective they were in all of that. In fact, all these indicators say something's wrong with our strategy. That we should shake well whether it's a place here right now in the Parliament or somewhere else, but I think we need a better, more effective strategy than this one has ever been. And another question that arises when this is being debated and you see how much money is being spent there, means 35 million kuna, is the question of whether with this establishment of the Resociation Centre, for various social support, shelters, club establishment, whether we have actually solved part of the unemployed, whether we have hired some people, or if we have got people who have the knowledge and will, the desire and the programs to do so, and that they actually have a more significant impact on the prevention itself. It seems to me that the problem with lack of quality programs, because these quality programs will draw people away from drugs, will distract them from other facts. In the party I represent, at the Democratic Centre, we hold that society and government still have no full knowledge of the actual proportions and drug problems. We're particularly concerned about the fact that drugs have already entered primary and secondary schools. We witness this daily through an increase in drug consumption and increasing violence in schools and around schools, as well as on the streets themselves. Unfortunately, drug abuse and violence are preceded by young people. Since 2000, the number of new drug addicts treated in the health system has been steadily increasing by more than 2,000 new addicts annually. So far, 18 thousand 476 addicts have been recorded in the drug tracking registry. The number of deaths since the drug overdose in Croatia has been more than doubled, despite the national strategy to combat drug abuse, which has been under way for 8 years, the drug addiction problem has not been reduced but has increased. So again, always beyond that, this finding rightly raises the question of what the effects of this national strategy are. What can be said is that it is good quality that we finally have some quality record of addicts, potential addicts, I don't know because of the statistics themselves, but because of the preventive rehabilitation measures, or the proper resociation of the social community. And finally, on behalf of the Democratic Centre, I suggest one conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received it here on the tables, to quickly consider introducing a mandatory subject in primary and secondary schools called "Our Health" in which the problem of drug addiction, alcohol, smoking, as well as sexual education would be addressed. In any case, it's a new possibility, one new opportunity to get to know the whole nation about the scale of these problems by educating parents, children through various workshops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31780	Thank you very much. We don't have enough time for another representative. There are three others left, Mr. Šišljagić, Mr. Perusko and Mr. Brdarić, and we will continue at 9:30. I'm closing today's debate and we'll continue tomorrow at 9:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31781	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31782	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In 99 years, the Council of the European Union adopted the basic principles of the drug control strategy for a period of four years, which are summarised in the generally accepted conclusion that it is necessary to ensure that the problem of drugs is a top priority for the internal and external actions of the European Union with the main objective of reducing the supply and demand of drugs. In the Republic of Croatia, the abuse of intoxicating drugs has taken great proportions since the Homeland War, and since 95, there has been a real epidemic of addiction. The drug addict rate rose from 0.990 to 2.7 in the 99th year when the increase in the number of addicts stabilised somewhat at an annual level of 1500 new cases. The demand and supply of drugs on the drug market is a global phenomenon, significant, universal for all countries, and mainly expressed in transition countries. The growth of drug supply has been affected by the moral crisis of Croatian societies, the disturbed system of values, the problematic economic situation that generates a high unemployment rate, but the fact and insufficient functioning of the rule of law. On the other hand, for a reason unsatisfactory frustrated and the problem of poorly addressed youth from year to year increases the demand for drugs. State policy has in due time seen the need to approach this serious problem systematically, and the profession has proposed concrete enforcement and specific measures in the fight against drug abuse. At that trail, the Croatian Parliament adopted a national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 96. Thus, even nine years ago, the professional, scientific and political public was very sensitive and aware of the problem of growing drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia and the need to oppose this problem in a systematic and organised way. Repressive measures aimed at reducing supply and systemic treatment in the part of treatment prevention and resociation of addicts. Quality implementation of the national strategy is not possible without adequate support from the policy of the institutions of the repressive apparatus system and the institutions of the health and social system. In the past, this support, although largely, is necessary to warn at the verbal level, was not questionable. The truth from time to time was doubts and occasional violent polemics in a political attempt to decriminalize so-called. Easier drugs. From public persuasion that easy drugs are not harmful to public or political statements that they have tried drugs themselves in their youth. I want to stress my personal position here. For me as a doctor, every drug is equally dangerous. For me, there are no easy and heavy drugs, I don't make a difference about the harmfulness of marijuana, heroin, cocaine or stimulating means like ecstasy. I was the initiator of a draft centre for prevention of non-patient treatment of addiction in Osijek-Baranja County, talking with a number of addicts who started their cross road just as easy, so-called. Light drugs experimented with ecstasy, then with marijuana and then switched to heroin, or cocaine, bringing yourself into a state of self-destruction, and your family into a state of social ruin. According to the judgment of the relevant institutions, a system of organised crime in the Republic of Croatia collects about a billion kuna annually. This amount should certainly be added to the damage caused by the secondary crime of the addicts themselves through the theft and drug trafficking, the reduction of productivity in thousands of families whose children are addicts, the price of the repressive apparatus and the price of the system itself for... addicts. On the other hand, today’s report shows that the prevention and control programmes of drug abuse in the context of the implementation of the national strategy spent a total of 12.7 million in 2002 and 23 million in 2003, which is actually a negligible amount compared to traffic achieved on the Croatian illegal drug market. In any case, effective implementation of the national strategy requires far greater financial resources, and this is how the experience from developed countries that have faced the problem of drug abuse has been reported significantly earlier. The United States government spends over $17 billion annually in addiction prevention programmes by calculating that each dollar invested in drug treatment brings savings from $10 to $12 and that the biggest problems are present in the treatment of addicts. The organised treatment network is not at a satisfactory level. The legal structure in the health and social system has not yet been implemented. County centres for prevention and non-patient treatment of addiction are the cornerstone of the implementation of the national strategy, and it is of exceptional importance to define their teamwork, detour and way of working them. It is of particular importance to resolve their continued and secure funding. The report shows that, for example, the centre in Osijek-Baranja County during 2002 and 2003 was financed with a total of 150 thousand kuna. It's absolutely insufficient, it didn't even cover employees' salaries. It's a similar situation with other county centers. In view of the fact that, in the national strategy, the county centres are the backbones and the foundations of its implementation, it is obvious that in recent years the activities of the centre have been limited by small financial means, and thus significantly reduced prevention and treatment programmes of addicts. The inclusion of county centres in the public health system that is currently being implemented should be resolved by the current status and organisational indetermination and, above all, by providing permanent and regular sources of funding both within the county institutions of public health and from the level of the Ministry of Health, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government and administration. Of course, legal, professional and social status of the therapeutic communities is necessary in the system of treatment and rehabilitation. After eight years of its implementation, it is obvious that the time has matured for the full revision of the national drug abuse strategy, as well as the need to bring it into line with the European drug strategy and European drug abuse practice. Despite the numerous remarks, criticisms and dissatisfaction over the results obtained, and as shown in yesterday's debate, I think the national strategy, with certain complements and coordinations, provides a good framework for effective control of drug abuse. However, no matter how high-quality, professional and scientific-based a strategy is, the results will fall short if they are not fully implemented with full and real support from the policy, the repressive health and social system and, of course, much more material financial investment. And finally, during yesterday's debate, we had the opportunity to listen to assessments between the other and today's opposition, which themselves assess the quality of the implementation of the national strategy during 2002 and 2003, so at a time when the government was acting at the state level, I quote: "so these creepy data invites us to action. Furthermore, the report points to defeating results," and then, "is it the success of the police, the success of the judiciary", and then "where is the POA, whom they discovered, where are the drug lords". I agree with my opposition colleagues, the report on the implementation of the national strategy in 2002 and 2003 points to disturbing and devastating results. I join those who are dissatisfied with its implementation during the period on which this Report speaks, and for this reason I will not support it in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31783	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31784	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of drug abuse is a global issue and a global problem, which unfortunately is not an immune and Croatian society. However, according to the opening statement of Mr. Secretary of State, it is evident that our society is climbing from the middle to the top, and we cannot and should not be satisfied. Indicators that combine the situation in 2002 and 2003, such as the secretary of state and said the product of a different methodological approach, not a real reduction in drug abuse. I'm sure that's the problem all the nations of the world are dealing with. Here, these days, we have a case where in Mexico, the drug mob is threatening the president of the state. I am not saying that the situation in Croatia is such, however, one public change study in the Istrian county from which I come, with all the problems our citizens face, the question that the biggest problem is experienced by the citizens of Istria in their area despite the poor social status of certain categories of citizens, besides a large number of unemployed as a product of conversion and privatisation in Croatian way, the citizens of Istria are undoubtedly in the first place stressing precisely the abuse of intoxicating drugs. The debate on this issue in this assembly that lasted four hours yesterday and which, behold, continues to speak unequivocally today in that we are aware of the problem we face and that all of us MPs, regardless of the political option from which we come, see the problem that destroys the stability of Croatian society. It's just a matter of our approach, of our perceptions of drug users. We think of one as a disease, a disease that needs to be treated, and others think it should be contained with repressive measures. I, since the debate, I say, lasted over four hours and that in that debate a lot of things were said, I would like in my brief debate in a few words to refer only to the problem of prevention, curative and criminal legislation. I think that prevention is a key question that we have to deal with. I think it is crucial that we stop the increase in the number of opiates users in Croatia. I mean, just stopping that number, then you can go to those other procedures that will give results in terms of recording, or in terms of the actual number of users. Prevention is the most important issue, and special attention should be paid to it. By respecting all the methods that have been presented here and used in Croatian society in terms of prevention, I would like to warn of something that is characteristic of a young man. The young man must have such programs in which he will be the subject of events, in which he will be at the centre of attention, at the centre of public interest. It must be included in such programs where it will really be at the centre of attention, where it will be the subject of events despite all educational methods of education, etc., I think that the main role must play a sport. The sport is the one that occupys the young man, gives him obligations in his spare time and I must say, most specifically, that, for example, 15 thousand actively registered athletes in the Istrian County, among them there are no users of opiates or if God doesn't have, then it can be done possibly on one individual case. And I think that at that prevention through sport, through a sport that will have that place in society that deserves, we can contribute most to the prevention of drug abuse. There are a lot of active and former athletes and us sportsmen in this assembly. A debate on the Law on Sports is expected very soon, and then we will see how we will find ourselves in the light of the differences, on the various political options we come from. If we give prevention a priority behind that, it's just a curative. Curativ, the treatment of what is a disease, and I consider it a disease. Therefore, there is certainly a need for all the most modern methods, including through the therapeutic communities and everything we talked about yesterday. And as my colleague Marija Lugaric says in the 2004 and 2005 budget when it comes to material resources for these purposes, we have not shown ourselves. It is expected to be in the 2006 budget. And thirdly, in criminal law, I think that the distribution of intoxicating drugs is a dirty business where wealth is created on human tragedies, on the tragedy of man as an individual, on the tragedy of family and on the tragedy of society in general, and it is not good to be fooled by statistical indicators that speak, e.g., that from over, that over 6 thousand crimes have been discovered from this domain. And when the second data says that 77.2% refers to consumables. It's actually about detecting a disease, not, a disease that needs to be treated, not a part that needs to be penalized. And in that sense, I, along with most members of the SDP Club, advocate such a Penal Code that will sanction those who make profits on human tragedies. And the proposal is one concrete proposal. The day before yesterday, a film was presented at the Istrian National Theatre in Pula, a documentary film by one journalist, a former addict who successfully cured himself of these monsters, and I congratulate myself on the tenacity. He made a film, a documentary of the symbolic title "Leaved", which the journalist, the author of the film, is also a former addict of the Professional Council of the Government of the Republic, the Government's Office for Discontinuation of Dependence. The movie "Leaved" speaks of a sensitive topic of dying because of an overdose. World statistics, according to the author, and there's no reason why I don't trust him, show that 75% of the cases with an overdose are found at the time of overdose and some other person. However, emergency assistance, also according to global statistics, is called in only 10 per cent of cases, and the only reason is fear of prosecution, says the author of this film. And he says that parliamentarians will be asked to amend criminal legislation so that immunity is given to persons who, in the event of an overdose of their counterpart, call for emergency assistance, or to be excluded from prosecution. By amending the law, the author says that many lives could be saved and there is no reason not to trust him. This was my initiative and in relation to the secretary of state in terms of future amendments to criminal legislation to these facts, I hope that the true waters of accounts. And voting for this report, which we discussed today and yesterday, I will vote for not for the pleasure of that report, but for the intention of doing something to prevent this monster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31785	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31786	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The debate was really lasting, and we all agreed in principle that it was a great evil to fight with all the means. By reading this report, no one can feel anything but deep concern, if you are a parent and a true yawn. And why is that? For the reason that at a time when I was 16, 18 or 20 years old, drugs could be found in Zagreb, Rijeka or Split. It's not like that today. Gentlemen, you can find drugs in every school yard, in a cafe, discotheque, in barracks, in prisons, literally on the street. That's right, it also says a newspaper report from a year or two ago that she left her granddaughter in one village of County Posavina to her 80-year-old grandmother a pair of pot-planted pots she had been watering neatly without knowing what it was about. I think it really justifies our fear and concern and desire to deal with all possible means, and primarily with this evil. Because if you ask a top chef, so was he and Jamie Oliver to do a gastronomic miracle for you, and you don't give him the necessary ingredients, he won't make it. I heard yesterday that fighting drugs in school programs is not necessarily money, that there is sufficient and good will, unfortunately that's not the case. And I heard something else that made me sad, so that we from our children's teachers should find out if there's been any change in their behavior, whether anything's happening to them or whether something's bothering them. If we experience it, gentlemen, it means we've failed as parents. Doesn't mean we're bad people, but it means we didn't do our parental duty well. And we can't justify the amount of time spent with our children, because these things don't depend exclusively on the amount of time, depending on the quality of time spent with the child. If you show him that you love him, that you care, and that it means what he says, what he is burdened with and what is in his life, we may avoid one of the reasons why they reach for drugs. I also heard that it was a disease, an addiction that I agree with, or a disease that was consciously chosen, that I couldn't agree with, because you can't expect a 16-year-old to be aware of what he's doing the moment he first takes drugs. And I'd also like to refer to my colleagues who mentioned yesterday the problem of alcohol that is far wider and harder and I don't really think that drug abuse in our children is starting with light drugs, gentlemen, and she's starting by taking alcohol even in elementary school, then in high school, and when you're under the influence of alcohol, you'll be much more likely to take any drugs that anyone will offer you, and we've heard that she has everywhere. The cause of drug trafficking has also been raised. It's like knowing what's happening and why, it's easier to deal with. Well, it seems to me that the answer isn't that difficult. Narcotics is spreading precisely because drugs are all present, easily available and cheap on one side. And on the other hand, we have a well-organized drug business that is highly profitable and not just with us, but everywhere in the world, and that's one of the reasons why we're going to have a very difficult time dealing with this problem, it's... business, I'd call it that. But if we can cure at least one addict and reunite him in society. If we save one person from reaching out for that evil that's hard to deal with later, we've already done something. I think that in fact, the family through kindergarten, with school, primary, secondary, colleges, society in general must take this problem seriously and get involved in the solution, because when I read this report that shows how many registered drug addicts are in us, and the fact is that there are several times more, then I don't think about numbers, but that there is an unhappy person behind each number, members of her family, and the damage that has been done to society as a whole. That's exactly why we have to try to keep this evil from happening. It's better to stop than to heal. And I want to tell those who said yesterday that this might turn into a formal debate about another report behind which nothing will happen. My colleagues and colleagues, that's possible. But it's just as possible if we really take the problem seriously, to make some concrete moves that my colleague Lucin was talking about, so this won't be another wild debate without results. If we really care about it, let's show it to the greater amount of money, because you can't fight the naked one against such a well-organized criminal mile. I would also like to warn myself that when a person becomes an addict, he must indeed consider himself a sick person in the fullest sense of that word, and not consider his addiction to be in some way a punishment for his reckless behavior. Today it happened to the neighbor's child, tomorrow it can be yours or mine. It is terrible that there are no rules, which there is absolutely no security, which you, when you do your parenting job well, direct your child, you are still not 100% sure that he will not meet with this evil and perhaps kneel, because young people have a terrible need to fit in with society, belong to a group, to prove themselves in any way, and sometimes to these poor negative ones. That is why we realize that this is not about shame, that it is not about punishment, but about serious problems, the real disease that should be treated as such, and that we finally decide whether we are going to pursue addicts, patients, therefore the symptoms of the disease, or finally decide to treat the cause of the disease, means the well-organized, unscrupulous, who, in the accident of our children and all of us, are making a good living without any remorse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31787	Thank you. And a five-minute debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31788	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we are during yesterday afternoon and today we held a debate on the report on the implementation of a national strategy to combat drug abuse. The debate, in our opinion, was responsible and freed from politics, and it is a shame that only the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health was present to her. It is a pity that they were not present representatives of the Ministry of the Family, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries with great responsibility in countering drug abuse, as well as representatives of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. The report contains data which are unchangeable. It is evident that almost all measures have been implemented in the National Strategy and yet the number of addicts is growing, the number of deaths is growing. This is a clear indication that the strategy is outdated because it was passed in 1996, which means almost nine years ago. Most of us in the debate have pointed out the need to coordinate with the current state of the drug abuse problem. It was found that a significant role in the conduct of withdrawal from addiction, rehabilitation and social reintegration of addicts has been played by the therapeutic community and Croatia has no law on therapeutic communities. Such a law is necessary because it is precisely therapeutic communities that must play a key role in the resociation and withdrawal of addicts. There has been an increase in deaths since Metadon and Croatia has no algorithms for the use of Metadon. Prior to the start of the debate, the Croatian Peasant's Club of Representatives proposed conclusions to this Assembly whose foundation was confirmed in all the discussions and they read. Under one, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to rapidly coordinate the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia with the current state of the drug abuse and drug addiction problem in the Republic of Croatia, the current European drug abuse practice and the European drug strategy, and to deliver the proposed harmonised strategy to the Croatian Assembly within 90 days for adoption. Under two, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to deliver the Proposal for a Law on Therapy Communities within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament. Under three, in order to enable addicts who have committed criminal offences to replace the entire prison sentence with a withdrawal measure in the therapeutic community, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to adopt within 30 days a protocol for the application of a substitution programme for treatment of addicts to regulate the algorithms of the application of Metadone and its distribution methods. My colleagues and colleagues, I'll do it again. Let us accept the conclusions because they contribute to a more successful fight against addiction, they are deprived of all political motives and politics, they are the result of fear for yours, ours and my children. Guys, let's not close our eyes. I am not ashamed of the fear of all my three children who cannot reduce the knowledge that the fourth is an adult and strong enough person and that they will not accept the apparent charms that come from drugs. My colleagues, I appeal if we are to make a contribution to the repression of this great evil, there really is no reason why the conclusions would not be accepted, therefore the more they are supported in all the debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31789	Thank you very much. The HSLS club DC has five minutes of discussion by the respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31790	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! So here's after a longer discussion, I believe we're all aware of the danger we're in. However, in order for us to be able to discuss better in the future, I would ask that the new report proposed here to the Croatian Assembly not have to wear one of these markings for almost three years, so that it shows our seriousness, or indifference, as much as we want to get caught in one quality solution to these problems. I suggested a conclusion yesterday at the end of the session in my debate, I would repeat, I would like the Croatian government to seriously consider the possibility of introducing one class into primary and secondary schools called our health. Not even children who are meant to be seen from this 16 to 30 - year - old report, so young people are the most common drug-consuming population. So neither are they aware of all these dangers, nor are we as older, as parents aware of enough of these dangers. We all need that education. So, please, it means to support one conclusion like this because we need it to create an atmosphere throughout society that we can fight against this evil more efficiently and quality. And one more thing I would suggest in this House, that this Parliament introduces another day as an act of goodwill, means a good wish that we can successfully fight this monster, to introduce the Day of Fight against Dependence in Croatia. It's about a lot of addictions. Yesterday there was a talk here about alcoholism which we will probably touch when the debate on the safety of the Transport Act is held, that we will be able to say here how widespread the evil has been in the territory of Croatia. There are opiates of all other species, there is smoking. In fact, it is both physical and spiritual health of our citizens and nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31791	Thank you very much. And the final review of Secretary of State Veljko Bozikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31792	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the very esteemed Ms. MPs and gentlemen of the MPs! I will begin with a small historical reminiscing that the great teacher of folk health, the promotion of folk health and the finding of the treatment of the vices at the time was Andrija Stampar, who almost 100 years ago as a student issued a publication for the national enlightenment in which he said during that time, in 1909 he was, "In Croatia are ruled by droughts, sexual diseases, trach and alcohol and destroying from day to day folk power. It may improve the situation if the enemies get to know each other. That's why we came out in public to do something in our duty to heal our lives." So, a sentence if we erase diseases that are eridicated not only in Croatia but in the world as a trach, for example, we can only introduce these addictions here and it is current. During your discussions, it was seen that alcohol was also a major problem in our people, so I will show you only a reader 70 years ago published by Andrija Printar, so the problem was very current, he still exists. We have to work on that, too, but there's not the only topic of these discussions. It is a primary addiction because it is dedicated to its topic and if we look at the scientific what Croatia is involved in one project... where the following unfortunately proved that every fourth student in Croatia was 25% in the last 30 days in the store for their needs bought beer, every seventh day wine and every eight, thought of students, a fierce drink. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, marijuana is considered as easily or very easily accessible as 46% of subjects, Extazy 27% of subjects, LSD 22% of subjects, Amphetamine 22%, Crack 15%, while 11% of the students considered marijuana in 1999, that it was easy to get it at school in 2003, which is considered by 20% of the subjects of both sexes. So it's a lot more accessible. So, in a boy drinking, in a girl smoking and in both sexes drinking and taking marijuana is becoming increasingly common at a younger age. My presentation yesterday, i.e. this report of great and also your discussions that were very substantial, very well-intentioned because it is a problem that really bothers us all and what is the problem that is all of our society. The problem comes from the family. A solid and strong family, that's where it's supposed to start. Because when he gets to school, he's easily getting that drug, when he comes in, when we look at the data yesterday, and we see that our young man when we find out, that's four years ago, what was the parent doing? The parent is the first contact. So we need to strengthen the family and let it be the password of one of the professional symposiums held in Pula, in September of the past year where there really was a fight against addiction, a fight for a healthy family. Let it be our constant password. I'd just like to say some little technical things about this huge report. And I must say, they've made an effort to really why it was late in 2002, 2003, so you know the current opposition, then the position. They've been working on it a lot, too. Then why isn't it done? It's hard for me to answer that now, and we're also expecting this past year 2004. Today, by listening to everything, I will indeed convey my remarks to those who make this report, and let us learn something about it. I agree as someone said yesterday, it was I think he was a representative of Lucin who said he needed terminology. There's the same problem in medicine. Now that we're doing some pharmacology new books, we've got a lot of problems. Especially when a young country builds its own terminology, it really needs a lot to coordinate, find the best terms, not only do we know how to use them, but when we compare things to know what they're about. Furthermore, the problem is you see in children, small drugs are clearly on their way. Now how to treat it. Well, no one's willing to criminalize children. They need to be helped educationally and so forth. But if they don't try it then there's less chance he'll be an addict. How to avoid that, those contacts, that poor child who becomes behind it, an unhappy child, an unhappy person with a tragic ending. There's no day not to ring that bell that says in our dead bell because of the loss of life because of the drug overdose. Because the miles that he gets, or those chains of drug lords on our territory, which is a passage from the east to the west, that's what's coming, that's what's coming. Today is also the chemical industry that can be adapted somewhere in a garage, produced as extasy. Extasy's cheaper today than tobacco. These are all huge problems that should surely be met by the state, the state must play its part, with its apparatus to prevent it and agree that the special department is to strengthen the departments that do so. Don't spare the funds, the lack of equipment, the lack of the people. We really need to eradicate this evil as soon as possible. The way to treat it, there's a waist has to say its own. There were questions whether, why is it because of Methadon's increasing mortality? Unfortunately every patient, which means not only in this case which is an addict, is individual. And one algorithm, because it's just one frame, one progenitor that's being treated, but that, those people really need to be carefully monitored for their withdrawal, and like them, they die. Because, and Metadon, it's just a cheater for that heroin that, basically only them, if he overdoses as much as heroin can die, no, I mean, that's why everywhere and there's danger. So that's what badges should do. And just to better address this problem is a passed law setting up at the level of all the counties, where these, take over public health services that must have these trained teams and thus those in each, to local self-government, that they can practically help treat expertise. More difficult situations are being treated at the hospital. We've got more and more new rehab centers here, detoxification and so on and so forth. What's waiting for us? We are expected to have a greater concern in schools and I am sorry that there is no pre-enlightenment of what you have mentioned several times, the question, education must be strongly involved in this and indeed that proposal which says that, that a new subject of good health for schools, despite the overload of our students' programs, is necessary indeed to start and in schools to learn more about it, but again professionally, know-how with school medics, there is one process that can't occur in one day or in one year, but it can really be introduced and be effective. The question of a community that, with these detoxication communities, I agree with what Mrs. Lalic said needed more control. Everything needs to be controlled, monitored not only in terms of some deviations in financial behavior but in professional behaviour. The waist goes on, everything needs to be under professional supervision. Quality of control in every segment of society, especially in this, I fully agree. Gentlemen, indeed this debate that lasted all afternoon yesterday and this early morning has shown our unity, all the representatives in this burning problem of the need for strength, strengthening all of us, and also the whole society, all segments. Therefore, this must be multidisciplinary, and co-ordinates the clear Government through the Office for Drug Control and the Treatment of Dependence with this roof institution that needs to coordinate the activity in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31793	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31794	Mr. Secretary of State said we're all against being criminalized by kids, thinking about it from a context that uses easy drugs. We can't all be against it. I'm not against that at least until we have the laws we have. I therefore advocate that we, therefore, decriminalize these children. What's the difference between what you said about easy drugs and heavy drugs? And exactly that, that anyone who gets into heavy drugs mostly passes easy drugs, but in the meantime, that doesn't mean that whoever tried easy drugs to necessarily get heavy drugs. And let's do something to get kids caught with a joint or with Extasy. They don't get the penalty. [[Agreement: Comrade Lucin, colleague Lucin.]] They don't get criminal records. [[Intruder: Now you've crossed over, you've gone straight to something else, not to correct an incorrect quote.]] It's all tied up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31795	It's all tied up. I'm closing the debate. Report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2002 and 2003. The debate is closed. There we will have the conclusion and acceptance and we will have 4 proposals for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and 1 Club of Representatives of the DC. First I put the next conclusion to the vote. The report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2002 and 2003 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 100 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 1 against an accepted conclusion that accepts this report. The proposal for a conclusion submitted by MP Frano Piploic reads. ... What's this about? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31797	I know, Mr. President, I just wanted to say I know what they're complaining about. It said Djapic voted, and he's gone. But this key of mine doesn't work at all, I just wanted to try his key to see if it worked or not. So my key doesn't work at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31798	And my God, let's not do that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31799	No, I just wanted someone not to think I was doing something stupid.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-09-0.u31800	All right, all right. Thank you very much, all right. So, like this, let's move on. This proposal for the conclusion of a colleague, Piplopić, states: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to take a quick look at the possibility of introducing a mandatory subject to primary and secondary school titled "Our Health" in which the problem of drug addiction, alcohol, smoking, and sexual education would be addressed. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Who's in favour of that conclusion? The result? A conclusion adopted by 76 votes to nine abstentions and 19 against. We will now move to a vote on four proposals of the HSS Club's conclusions on this. Conclusion number one, the Government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself to rapidly aligning the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia with the current state of the drug and disease abuse problem, drug addiction in the Republic of Croatia with the current European drug use practice, the European drug strategy and, within 90 days, the proposal for a harmonised strategy to deliver to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. Please, let's get on with it. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? For? Against? Restraint? We can vote. Score, give it there. I find this conclusion accepted by 94 votes in favour and 10 votes against.
