ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31500	We are going to the next item - Proposal for a decision to set up an investigation committee to determine the facts regarding issues relating to public morality regarding the acquisition of the property of state officials Mr Ivo Sanader and Miomir Zuzula through the activities of companies owned by officials and their related persons, or on the other hand, the Proposer of this act is a dozen MPs. I would like to ask the representative of the proposer, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31501	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for the establishment of this investigation committee is a continuation of Mr Sanader's accepted proposal that everything should be determined about all of us. So, about everything. It is a continuation of our position from the debate on the Investigation Commission that we had yesterday and yesterday, that the citizens of this country must finally have the right and the possibility of truth about all of us, about all our assets, the way we acquire, the execution of tax obligations. Too much has been done in the past 14, 15 years, too many dilemmas, too many publicly charged charges that have never been brought to an end, where those who have accused have never presented evidence, those who have been accused have never had the opportunity to justify themselves from these accusations. So when it went into such a procedure, it was most often declared not to be a statute of limitations, a lack of documents or witnesses, and everything else hangs in the air without will and willingness to complete the matter. The investigation committee is the only means and mechanism for us to put this topic on the agenda and try to respond to what has been said in public. The basis for this proposal is the Law on Investigation Commissions and allow only short content and reasoning of the proposal. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Sanader and the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Miomir Zuzul, have been acting as state officials in office since 1992. First, Mr Ivo Sanader 1992 representative at the Croatian Parliament. 92-93. Minister of Science and Technology of the Republic of Croatia. 93-95, Deputy Foreign Minister. 95-96. Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and Secretary-General of the Defence and National Security Council. In the period from 96 to 2000, he was Deputy Foreign Minister. At the time of 2000 to 2003, the representative in the Croatian Parliament. And since 2003, he has been Prime Minister. Mr. Miomir Zuzul was deputy foreign minister in the period 92 to 93. In the period from 93rd to 96th, the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to the United Nations in Geneva. On 96 to 2000, the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to the United States. And since 2003, he's been foreign minister. Mr Ivo Sanader, in public and in print media, was also said to have received payments from Miroslav Kutle and his Globus Group since 95, of 750 thousand German marks and in 1996, worth 50,000 marks. In a section of the printed media, these allegations were also supported by a copy of the alleged documents that the transactions were proving. For Mr Miomir Zuzul, in public and media, it was pointed out that during the conduct of office functions through several affairs which were publicly opened in the media space of the Republic of Croatia such as the lobbyist engagement of the wife for Bechtel company, the business transactions of MTS and transactions through associations where he was the founder or manager. During the course of those incomes in the Republic of Croatia, the tax system is regulated by the Income Tax Act, the Income Tax Regulation and other regulations governing the specified matter. In accordance with these rules, taxpayers who did not pay only one employer were obliged to submit a tax application means that only one employer had to submit such an application. Furthermore, the tax system in the Republic of Croatia covers all receipts on all grounds if payment is made in accordance with the regulations and therefore it is possible to fully monitor the course of acquisition of assets. In addition, since in 1992, according to the statements and public tax cards, the property was far more modest than those held today, there is a public interest in determining how to acquire that property. The objectives of the research should be, the aim of the Commission's work is to identify the facts relating to public morality regarding the acquisition of the property of state officials Mr Ivo Sanader and Mr Miomir Zuzula through the activities of companies owned by officials and associated persons or other grounds. The Commission is obliged to establish all the facts relating to the way the officials obtained the property, whether they had their tax obligations in 1992, whether they owned the company or those associated persons, whether these companies concluded contracts with state bodies or services because there are grounds for doubt, given that Mr. Miomir Zuzula’s production of stockings was carried out by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Where contracts are concluded and the course of the tender procedure is carried out. Each person whose work or behaviour is being examined shall be required to provide an indication of the facts and circumstances of that action. The field of research includes the way in which Mr Ivo Sanader and Mr Miomir Zuzula's assets are acquired and the round of questions to which the investigation committee should give me the answer are the following. The assets held in 1992, the assets held in 2004, the course of the acquisition of assets divided by years, the way in which the assets were acquired, whether they owned or owned by a company or by a company or persons associated with them, whether those companies owned or owned by the associated persons entered into contracts with the state authorities. During the tender procedure, whether or not all receipts were reported neatly, whether or not they were carrying out the prescribed tax obligations, whether the payments of current costs, in particular of tuition abroad, were invoices and other. In the end, whether the total incomes recorded taxed justify today's assets and current costs in the country and abroad. I want to believe that all those who took the day before and yesterday advocated that the same way was achieved full truth in the business of colleagues Tomcic and Cacic, with the same arguments for the same reasons and reasons, will also be supported by this proposal for the establishment of this investigation committee. The same arguments and the same objectives for the work of this investigation committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31502	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, I would like first of all to highlight what this proposal is not, which we do not think and want to achieve with the proposal to set up this investigation committee. This proposal is not a battle in the war of committees, under quotes, because there is no war. The story of war and battles of committees and similar things is unnecessary fiction that cloudes the real state of things and fundamental public interest. That story is trying to cover up what's hidden and can't and can't be hidden. What the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know is what and how officials they have chosen to represent their interests are doing. This proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee is not even revenge for some other proposals that have arisen because there is absolutely no reason for revenge. Such a commission as any other commission involving the former, current officials is in fact a way to erase from their name any trace of suspicion that they have acted unlawfully, immorally, inappropriately, as they have already done. It's clear by the definition that everyone is in the beginning but absolutely all real and innocent. So, from that setting we're going. Of course, that's how it stands until proven otherwise. Now, what is the suggestion of this decision? Before and above all, it is an effort to protect the public interest and to fully clarify and present to the public the business and way of acquiring the property of the two officials who have performed for the past 13 years and today perform extremely important functions in the executive and legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia, or still act as representatives of the Republic of Croatia on points abroad which are of the utmost importance for the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Their credibility is the credibility of all of us and the credibility of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we have the right to check on him, and that's why we have the right to present him to the public. The aim of this investigation committee is to determine whether, during the acquisition of assets over the past 13 years, the officials whose commission will deal with any failures, firstly in respect of the legal provisions of particular those relating to the execution of tax obligations, and especially because during that period their assets have increased in value. That's according to the documents they submitted themselves. The aim of the investigation committee is also to determine whether Mr Sanader and Mr Zuzul have, in any way, favoured the business of their own companies or companies owned by them by close persons or in some other way that did not comply with morals and good business practices, to benefit themselves or others. The Croatian public has the right to know. The round of questions to be answered by an investigative committee whose establishment we are proposing is listed one by one, I would just like to point out that these issues are clear, decoded that they do not include any moral dilemmas, interpretations and similar things, to which figures yes or no can be answered. Did they do it? They didn't do it. When he answers all this, we will no longer have any dilemmas, all will be known to the public, about issues that are not only of public interest, but also of public interest. So, which Croatian public are interested. They will also know why Mr. Zuzul resigned, and they will know why the prime minister accepted it. And public interests will be protected as a whole by the credibility of the executive and the Republic of Croatia. Because of this, dear colleague and colleague of the HNS Club, the PGS supports this proposal. And we appeal to the other MPs to support him. It is no doubt about the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of us 152 who are sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31504	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31505	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me present on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club a position related to this proposal, which came from the ranks above all of the Croatian People's Party and whose course of proposal we could follow over the past two weeks. And right away, I would like to point out that it is indeed a political attempt with the prime minister and an attempt to destabilise the Croatian government that successfully sets footing and successfully solves all the problems that, unfortunately, it inherited from the former government. Let's not say we're not going back on the subject anymore, but it's quite clear that it is indeed a perfidious attempt at political reckoning and destabilising the government. And at the same time, we can't get the impression that it's essentially a word in trying to distract those who have really been in conflict of interest in the past term of the former government. Whose companies made millions of dollars in state-owned business. And the more we can say freely, whose companies made hundreds of millions of kunas in the ministry business they ran. So it is quite clear that it is an attempt to distract attention from such real affairs from actual conflicts of interest in our opinion. And this is how they try to distract the Croatian public at a time when the HNS does not answer to expose amongst its ranks those who have dealt with such activities. What to say to the fact that three MPs withdrew their signatures from the original proposal. And that's enough talking about what actually happened behind the scenes of one of these proposals. Or more to say about the fact that after the debate on the proposal to set up an investigative committee concerning the actions of Cacic and Tomčić, a colleague in this House, in fact, only then did three representatives of the HSS put their signatures on this proposal. Not before. Not before this Croatian Parliament discussed Mr. Cacic and Tomcic but after that debate we therefore have the additional support of three representatives from the HSS ranks. I think the matter for the public is quite clear. But let us also say something about the essence and on what these representatives are based on, their proposal to set up this investigative commission. Let's just say that right before the 2003 elections, these same meals were placed in the media probably by the same actors. Regarding the Prime Minister, Mr Sanader, i.e. That he allegedly took some money from the Kutla, and the Glouss Group, and so on and so on. To make the matter more clear then, before the 2003 campaign, the State Attorney's Office had also checked on which the HDZ could not have been affected completely and clearly. And that State's Attorney's Department then rejected such allegations as unfounded. So we're being set up by something that's been rejected by the State's Attorney's Office, which is completely unfounded, and it's the only foundation and fundamental argument on which this group of MPs are based their accusations. Do these MPs actually want to replace the role of state's attorney? Whether they want to tell the Croatian public that in 2003, at the time of their term of office, the State's Attorney's Office did not do its job legally. If they really want to be what their colleagues used to be at the same time, Kadiya is suing you. Is that what they want? I'm sure no one can assign such a role to them anymore, and neither can they give themselves such a role more. BUT let’s say something else about these facts that have been presented here. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader was not born in 1992, nor did he get the first job as a representative at the Croatian Parliament. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. Why am I saying this? Because it is necessary to make it very clear that Mr. Sanader was able to read it in the media as a very successful businessman, i.e. he did business significantly before he entered the Croatian Parliament. Just to mention some of the facts presented in the media, let's just say that he was the general representative of the prominent Mer Press company, and in 10 years, according to the media, he could really earn quite enough to ensure his existence and his family. So I think things are more than clear. NO. What's really behind this. A colleague from the HNS who spoke on behalf of the club said we should all talk about everyone, everyone here should be accounted for and so on. However, your proposal is not for a colleague, Lesar, to be examined for an affair that rocked Zagreb City's leadership. To be questioned by your colleague Ferenchek, who sits here somewhere near you. So I didn't see one such suggestion that you came out with one such proposal you first after your colleague resigned from the City Head, that you came out with a proposal to determine really everything that was going on. And according to us, not only, according to what we have been able to read in the media, this really is about shameless actions, about shameless actions, where at the expense of a vulnerable population, a group of people have become rich and among them, unfortunately, your colleague. So, he really wants to distract the public from cases that were burdening both in the '90s, so your colleague Cacic hasn't been in the media since yesterday because of the affairs they're calling him for. Well, there was no affair yesterday related to the retirement home in Dubrovnik, and it's no wonder that this case went out of date. And for information to you and the Croatian public, the responsible person in that case could have been punished for up to 8 years in prison. You could read that from the reports we received from the Justice Department. So, not to mention other cases, Zadar, etc., everything your colleague is involved in. And when we talk about facts, or in this case about a completely unargumented proposal, because if you're arguing to us here that your proposal is actually based on the fact that someone might have written in the media that it paid off, that someone paid off the current prime minister, it really isn't any argument. That's more than I'm saying, the State's Attorney's already dismissed it. So let's be clear to the public. You want to mask your members, you want to put them somewhere on the side, put them in front of the public something that is truly unwarranted, which has no basis, which is unargumented. And I'm saying that really these accusations here really ate some kind of nonsense that just didn't trust anyone acceptable. Let's really deal with real affairs. We're going to deal with the affairs that we've already discovered here in Parliament, which were the cause of this investigation committee of yours, which was directed against Prime Minister and Minister Zuzula. So let's really deal with real affairs. That's what the public expects of us. And it's not true if it wasn't for war, you wouldn't be saying it if it wasn't for the actual war on the committees what you said. You really want to war with the committees precisely for these reasons that I have cited. So it's quite clear what this is all about. I still want to say something. Mr. Sanader has been in politics for 13 years. That's what it says in your file. Since 92 he has become a representative at the Croatian Parliament. At no time has his political action been questioned, especially as far as such matters are concerned, we must point out that to the Croatian public for the sake of it. But the Croatian public knows that well. Therefore, at no time was it questioned. It was tried before the 2003 election. Of course it didn't work out because it wasn't justified and it wasn't true. Therefore, Mr Sanader is very, very well known, very well known in the Croatian public, not only because he is now prime minister in this last period, but because of his overall political action since 1992 and is not really, it is not desirable to try to distract himself in this way. You have other ways, so try it on some other people, but I think you really chose them as the wrong target. I think you picked the wrong target this way. I also think it is necessary to point out once again, and ultimately to conclude that it is really about politics on the attempt of political reckoning, distracting attention from yourself, or from your members who are actual participants in the affair, which are evidenced from all these materials that have already been before us in the debate. And finally, I would like to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, on the basis of all that I have said so far that we will not accept your proposal to establish this commission, because what you have brought here has nothing to do with either the truth or the argument, and of course we cannot and we do not want to support this proposal to set up this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31506	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Chicin-Shain Kossha.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect quote by my colleague Matusic where he is talking about distracting attention from the Cacic-Tomcic commission. We have supported the commission of Cacic-Tomcic, we want such a commission to be formed and to examine the actions of our members, but also the indications that exist for Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Zuzula are precisely the reason why we are looking for such a same commission that will examine the creation of their assets in the past period since they became public figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31508	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31509	Thank you very much. Two false allegations. Comrade Matušić says we're setting something up for them, we're setting it up for you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Unlike you, we have made no judgment. We just suggested that the truth be established. You suggested to establish the truth but you've already reached a verdict. That's a huge difference. Another quote about a colleague of Ferenck's. I hope you have this law on investigating committees, and as long as the state's attorney Bajic is not finished and the final solution cannot be proposed by an investigative committee. I can't wait for the report. But it's also very interesting that last time you asked for an investigative commission and against me personally. So when I went out to the Croatian public and said everything, then you gave it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31510	Thank you, Mr. Lesar. It's more of a controversy. You've corrected an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31511	Thank you very much, Mr. Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31512	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31513	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. You've probably noticed that this, at this point, is not on the agenda of the Cacic-Tomcic, nor Ferenčak, nor any other, except for one of the only ones we're talking about here, and that's Sanader-Juul's commission. That's the topic here today. Many precisely incredible moves have been made to prevent the implementation of this commission, or even put on the agenda in the first stage, and then the debate. The phones rang, the prime minister personally threatened and blackmailed. When it didn't work out, he did it. Namely, it is one complete truth and there is no dilemma about it, and that is true, and that truth is easy to see from a few things. One of these simple certificates is that some have been threatened, blackmailed, or traded, and given in. I've only seen colleagues from the SDP here from my colleague Lucin and Matt of the Church, I don't see anyone else... And I apologize, colleague Josipovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I apologize to my colleague Josipovic. Something, something's changed the number. counterpart Lucin correctly wrote in his letter withdrawing his signature that he was withdrawing because of his party's position. So he was completely clear. And one party was positioned in that sense. So it's all clear here. It still didn't work out, like it's never gonna work. Like they'll never make it. Muding can be thousands of times the truth is only one. But once the truth is spoken and it is revealed and confirmed then it remains, and here we are talking about what is objective, can realistically be confirmed as the truth and therefore it is very important that the Croatian public has a picture of it and that it is informed about it. Things are extremely simple. It is extremely simple to determine whether Mr. Sanader has received some money or not. The account numbers are familiar. It is clear and easy to verify the amount of his income and his wife’s assets. It's very simple. It's extremely simple to make an insight into his tax card, where and when he earned what and paid. It's very simple. I don't see any reason, not that there's any level of nervousness or excitement about it. I'm sure the Prime Minister is innocent. I'll be sad to find out if it isn't. I'm not so sure about his partner, Mr. Zuzul. I may be, but I'm sure of it, too, but not until the end. Not until the end. Why not to the end? I'd be quite certain that Zuzul is innocent, quite certain, that he hasn't been removed. Since he's been replaced, I have certain doubts. Still, okay. He's been relieved of his duties. ... Well, I didn't know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In other words, in all the jobs they've done together in the last year, Sanader's signature. Don't tell me that the "Sun-Sun-Hvar" that started with 40 million recapitalisations, and 185 investment in reconstruction as the best, smartest, best-quality solutions for the Croatian state, and then the next step was that it had to be because the court decision was revealed that it was a lie because there were no court decisions then, and then it was declared that it was only being considered and it was revealed that it was also a lie because there was a government conclusion of 5.5. Well, I guess that wasn't the best offer for Croatia, and she had Sanader's signature. Look at Bechtel, the best, the best, the best, the only possible, there's no other, first theory. The second theory, we have to because the former government signed the contracts, she threw us out, we're wearing shackles on our hands, we can't do it without it, we'll pay for the penals, the fines. It's been revealed as a faceless lie, no punishment, no court proceedings, nothing. Nothing past was against the law in this regard in any way done or done harm, on the contrary. ... Of course not, it has a lot to do with the investigation committee, dear gentlemen, a huge connection because what's revealed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it wasn't true either what was next, said the government we were just considering. What has proved to be the government's decision in Gospić, where the saying decides to go to work with Bechtel under the grain. What happened today? That today's Bechtel offer is 500 million more expensive than their own base, because when you're doing your own paperwork and offer, it's a little easier when you're making a deal with your friends. Sanader's signature, lobbyist Zuzul. So what are we gentlemen talking about? And now we come to this tragedy, we come to this terrible and horrible thing, we get to Match Telekom. Only three people are listed in Mr. Sanader's office, only three. Only three people are listed. Dr Ivo Sanader, Deputy Minister Gordan Jandrokovic heads the office and Daniel Benko. They're people of 99. Mr. Benko is listed as a representative of Match Telekom here, an authorised representative. Mr. Benko and his father were listed in the offer as an authorised representative until Match Telekom even surfaced. Mr. Benko, therefore, the closest associate of Prime Minister Sanader is the man who represented criminals who falsified 22m euros for what was discovered. So that's the man...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31514	Mr. Chacic, don't make such judgments from that pay phone. In the event of the next verdict, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31515	No, I'm not gonna finish. Mr. President, I don't want to make any judgments...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31516	Don't disqualify the people from that pay phone that they represented the mob. I'm asking you nicely and I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31517	I didn't say they represented the mob. Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, let me keep going. They have represented a company that has been proven by Interpol and Banka Di Roma that has falsified bank guarantees on behalf of Banka Di Roma at 22m euros. Proved. Is that causing certain public doubts? Of course, gentlemen, it's causing certain doubts. Is that what this is looking for? Of course he's looking for an investigation. And the Telekom case, but he's also looking for an investigation into the property of the man who signed it all together and decided on it. Of course there will be opportunities since my time is running out, to burn and a little more detail on property issues, to which I will return yet, we are... and there will be opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31518	Thank you. And I'm asking the following speakers either from the bench or from this pay phone here not to make such judgments and not to mention the people who represent the mob in your opinion. I'm asking nicely while I'm presidening that I won't allow it. Just like you said Prime Minister Sanader threatened. This should be proved, and Dragutin, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar, had the opportunity to prove it. Here I pray you don't mess with names and such heavy accusations. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is entirely incorrect that Prime Minister Sanader threatened his colleague, Lesar. First, counterpart Lesar could not agree with himself who threatened him, whether a minister or a prime minister, and that is absolutely an incorrect claim. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I am glad to say, in the end, Mr. Representative Cacic said that he is certain of the innocence of Prime Minister Sanader, which clearly exposes their goals regarding this proposal for an investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31520	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31521	It's the same inaccuracies. So it's completely incorrect that the prime minister threatened to ring the phones, because from the man from whom Mr. Cacic heard it, and this is Mr. Lesar, we have a chance to hear that one week he was called Mr. Racan, and another week that it was Mr. Sanader. It was published in the paper, and Mr. Lesar said so he can make a deal with himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31522	Thank you. You can't go on behalf of the proposer right now. You cannot, after correcting an incorrect quote, on behalf of the applicant. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31523	Mr. Cacic made such perfidious illusions at the expense of Mr. Sanader where he said I didn't believe it, but he made it very clear what might happen here. But, Mr. Cacic, I seriously expect that the court's corruption will still be revealed and that you will come to the wallpaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31524	I thank you, and don't let me give you any warning. This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I answered for a word on behalf of the Club not because it called out certain names or to analyse the foundation or non-basement of those meals, but to consider whether to establish the Committee or not to form the Committee. Since yesterday we discussed and discussed the establishment of committees, since we have said several times ourselves that we are in principle against the establishment of commissions, especially against the inflation of commissions that lose their meaning. However, the establishment of committees has also started by the one who first launched a request to investigate the commission, already mentioned here, Tomčić – Cacic. We have supported, or voted in favour of this commission for the reasons we have explained in the debate, because in this way we consider that we are actually doing good to those who have been called out all the time, we believe, unfounded. Whether they are unfounded or founded it will determine this commission. And it was indeed a pleasure to listen for a time in the congregation to think that others agree with it and that one and another measure should actually be applied to everything. And here, Prime Minister Sanader said he supports the establishment of a commission that will determine how to acquire his property. And we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the establishment of this Committee. Why? If we leave this question unsettled, which, truth be told, we didn't start, but others started, so when something starts, that's what needs to be done. It would leave room for speculation as to whether what was written by the newspaper, though it was at the end of 2003, they wrote in my opinion that for now it was not true that Mr. Sanader had received 800 thousand marks, the meal remains. The public's perception remains about it and I think that Prime Minister Sanader and Mr. Zuzul have their families who are doing unprecedented damage in a way that continues to speculate and leave doubt whether it has been done or not. I believe they acquired their property in a legitimate way and acquired their property in a moral way. If that's how I still believe it, even though the HDZ Representatives Club opposes the establishment of that commission leaving a certain shadow, I believe this commission will determine that. So if someone came to this legally, legally, in a moral way, and in this way it would definitely close speculation, these speculations, and these rumors take a little longer than a year. Rumors and speculations lasted for years on two of the aforementioned MPs, and they retreated whenever someone at that time had a daily political interest. I hope this commission will shut its mouth once and for all. And if we have such criteria and such standards according to the previous two MPs, I find it incorrect to take some other standards and other criteria for someone else. Especially since Prime Minister Sanader himself said he supports the establishment of the commission. So if Mr. Sanader supports the establishment of a commission, if this exposure is based on the belief that it is for the benefit of a person, that we are not talking about who and others is coming behind these persons, we see no reason why we do not establish such a commission, especially because the law provides for conditions for the establishment of an investigative commission to be fully satisfied. On this occasion, I was able to fully read the explanation of yesterday's committee's proposings and all that you, a colleague, said with a change of name and last name, could be said in this case. Here is an appeal from the Croatian Peasants' Club to be equal to everyone because I believe equality will bring something back to this Assembly, which, something has existed before. We honestly believe he hasn't definitely moved out of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31526	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31527	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not true that one part of HDZ's representatives opposed the establishment of the Committee, but I must admit it was interesting to observe that one such high moral party as HNS cannot collect 16 signatures. And thank the HSS for joining them. Secondly, which is very strange, we talk about the press all the time. The press is right, the press isn't, and I convinced the press two days ago that you were disgusted. So don't tell us another time that we're lying. Tell the open media lies, and you don't have the guts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31528	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31529	Since my colleague, an esteemed colleague, has spoken to me, I'm going to correct an incorrect assumption. It is absolutely not true that the same argument is neither the same factual degree, nor is the same argument compared to yesterday. When you do an analysis of one and the other text of the reasoning, if you did it yourself, then you will very easily see all the important points where the difference begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31530	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the promoter a few words more. Of course, the press often lies. There's no dispute about it. Sometimes the press is directed to sue and sometimes it seems so. I did the following, I sued, as I said, the slanderers who said the lunches they heard here and who one of them was then the president of the Privatisation Fund and the other regional director. The verdict's been passed, the trial's been going on for a couple of years, and that's where 99th ended. The one who had no immunity was convicted of the lies that were re-exposed here. I hear here that there will finally be a series of corrupt judges who, behold, are preventing me from being exposed in some way. It would be a good idea if someone against me would start anything at all. The funniest thing no one's ever done against me. The Croatian government and the government have had this opportunity since during the previous HDZ, it has never been done. Here's what Mr. Matušić is talking about, I think it's called Mr. Representative Matušić from Dubrovnik he probably doesn't know very well, because during the Dubrovnik war he wasn't, there was a man out there playing guitar. So he doesn't know what happened back then in Dubrovnik. He doesn't know what was going on back in Dubrovnik, but some other people were there, were HDZ mayors, HDZ mayors, were HDZ representatives of the government, ministers, long ago someone could have started some sort of procedure against Radiir Cacic. Never anyone. The only one who started it was a gentleman there himself, and about the procedure seemed to me to accuse Mr. Matusic by the living and healthy woman that 20 years ago he killed his wife. She's here nice and neatly alive and what she'll do to that state's attorney and court. They'll drop my application because it's out of date. It doesn't go into the scale of things, it doesn't talk about whether you're guilty or not, but it rejects because it's out of date, regardless of whether the lady is alive and well. So that kind of political substituting and dirt is not decent. Otherwise, of course, I call upon the gentlemen once again before they start to look back at the corruption of the judiciary, although there is, I confess, before they start to look back at it that at least someone in that state is suing me for anything ever. Here's to anything, nice please do it. If you do, for anything. And so for 15 years in the process. Now, gentlemen, onward, no. As far as these concrete allegations we're talking about here, I must say, of course, I am undermining once again, I have no doubt of innocence. I believe that also the articles in the Nationals that speak of an extremely successful career as a young and handsome student, a church that, right after the end of the study, threw itself into the acquisition of wealth on jobs that are explicitly mentioned here, which we may or may not have to call pornography. So, I have no doubt that he acquired enough to buy apartments and houses and more apartments in that house, to acquire property that roughly triple or quadruple the total income that taxfully according to his own card has been reported. I don't doubt that. But gentlemen, let's just check it out. Nothing else. Let's go check it out. When I was a kid, they supplied me with some baby picture with the beautiful one, you know, there's no more of it today, the cat, the grandmother, they're spinning something, so the ball's spinning down, and now the cat's pulling that hook, the cat's pulling the cat, the question just to start pulling gentlemen. So when he pulls out there's gonna be a lot of things to look at, it's long a bench and there's a lot of stuff hiding in it, my dear friends, but maybe not, maybe not. Of course, all those who believe in the innocence of Prime Minister and Mr. Zuzul will support this investigation committee. All those who feel guilty will vote against, let them remain in the public image that they are guilty but do not dare expose the investigation. So the HDZ will decide whether Sanader is guilty or not. Well, everyone always decides on their own destiny. If he votes against the commission, he'll clearly say the prime minister is guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31532	Thank you. HSP's respected representative Pero Kovacevic, please. And before that, the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frana Matušić, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31533	Mr. President, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that I said someone was stealing. I said I didn't steal from anyone, I didn't steal from a pensioner. Those are my words, you can look at it. So I didn't steal from a pensioner unlike some. That's what I said. And of course he wouldn't believe you, because you're telling the truth. Of course I believe what the Prime Minister said on the first day he was asked, unlike you who after 15 days began to invent who threatened you and when he threatened you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31534	Second correction by respected representative Vladimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31535	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Lesar repeated repeatedly that the Prime Minister, Dr. Sanader, threatened him. It's completely incorrect because he's making it up. One day he was threatened by Dr. Sanader, one day he was called Dr. Sanader, the other day he called him "dirty jobs", those are your words, Mr. Lesar, "dirty jobs" was done for him by Mr. Racan. Please decide who threatened you. Now you've said yourself that you have no other arguments except his word against your word. ... And his, and yours is... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31536	Third, respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31537	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Sir, you're not very nice to me, but why would you be unsympathetic or likable? It's not about sympathy or sympathy, it's about the lies you speak in the Croatian Parliament. You have repeated several times that you were called the President of the Croatian Government. You didn't say that outside of the Croatian Parliament. This is what you are saying at the pay phone of the Croatian Parliament because you know that you are protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 75, the representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detention or punishment for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament. Why didn't you say this to the newspaper outside, outside the Assembly of the Croatian Parliament. ... Therefore, I can get a warning now, but I won't keep my mouth shut in front of you, and neither of you are my vertical nor my moral nor political or ina. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You, sir, are telling the lies that have turned with your insolence into what you deserve to say, you are really lying in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President, I can get a warning, what I can. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31538	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31539	President, I thought you'd say before the warning, but good when you haven't already, it's practice today. I would correct the incorrect quote of fellow Lesar when he said we have a word against the word. That's not true. In one conversation with Mr. Racan, I was present, with a conversation with the Prime Minister, I was present. ... What you do not believe in me, I did not expect you to believe in me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't expect you gentlemen to believe me. ... And this also speaks of your culture, gentlemen, not mine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31540	Okay. Thank you. Gentlemen, MPs tell each other to lie, and then those who speak, when they are told to lie, then ask for intervention to be warned of that representative. When they refer it to another person and say that they are knowingly telling the truth, which is just another name for a lie, then they consider it a democratic expression of opinion that must not be challenged. When it's said that someone is a proven criminal, it's a democratic right. When you answer that with a similar remark, it's an insult. The warnings will not solve anything, perhaps with warnings, but with warnings, general warnings when they are not accompanied by some financial sanctions, the fines obviously do not act and that the purpose of either special or general prevention would not be achieved either by giving notices. Here you go, pal. ... Gentlemen, I need to see you answer it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I need to see, you need to hold the tile, not just shoot it up and get it back, I don't see it or get it signaled. I can't see if someone just makes it like this. If you've heard from me, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31541	Thank you. Well, I have to react, because the fact is I'm called yes. So the correction of the wrong quote. I'm not worried you couldn't collect enough signatures, I get that. I heard your cries this morning on Radio Zagreb, that everyone against you, everyone joined together, collated against you, and that's why you know that. Rating parties going from affair to affair, from "Coning" so... Centers and stuff. [[You don't understand.]] He's so down that no one else but this party who's had the same drop in the ratings, who's now been texting you the signatures, is going to be with you. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31542	A colleague named Lesar spoke finally on behalf of the promoter. Then you'll be on behalf of the club for five minutes. It's the only thing he can do. Okay. Vice-President, respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31543	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. One very simple decision is ahead of us. We discussed yesterday a committee of investigation for colleagues sitting with us here in Parliament and who were in the past term one of the presidents of the Parliament, another minister. We discussed today the investigation committee for colleagues, one of whom was sitting with us in Parliament in the past term, and now one and the other sitting in the Croatian Government. So the situation is completely identical. The assumption of the functioning of such an institution as Parliament is civil equality, which means the equality of not only before the law but the equality of all before the institutions, formal institutions of the state. Parliament...... Mrs. Petricevic, this is an elementary knowledge from the political theory of state and rights and would probably be useful as John Stuart Mil said, if education were also one assumption of participation in the political process. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, in this case it is one of the most ordinary institutions of civil equality. An institution without which neither Parliament nor the institutions of the modern state have any and no need to enter into the measure of things. You can feel that everything that has been said and everything that you suspect is a teammate and Cacic will prove guilty in the process of investigating committees, and that in this same process absolutely will be exculpated by colleagues Sanader and Zuzul. You can absolutely be sure of that. We can be convinced exactly the opposite or even share beliefs. The measurement of things here is not a question of our decision. The measurement of whether these people are really responsible for what was suspected in the public and in the debates here and in the proposed proposals for the establishment of investigative committees will establish investigative committees in their business. What we are today by voting in this House is whether all the people in this country, whether all the citizens in this country, and by the same logic, are all people in politics whether officials in the executive or officials in the legislative authority are equal before the law and equal before the institutions of this state. That's all we're deciding here and if they're equal we'll vote equally in case of investigation committee A and in case of investigation committee B. And if we have any doubt that one of these investigative committees might reveal something that might be incriminating for these people, and they are, for example, from our party, then we will, of course, fight hands and feet so that this investigative commission doesn't be established. But colleagues and colleagues, I think the best solution to this case would be to let these investigative committees establish at least the facts they can and so, in my opinion, one case and another, we'll put an ad act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-04-0.u31544	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. At 15.15, the vote on one part of the points on which we held the debate and on one part that was lagging behind from the last session. The fourth proposal of this nature is the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts concerning Public Morals as regards the acquisition of the property of state officials Mr Ivo Sanader and Miomir Zuzula through the activities of companies owned by officials and their related persons or on another basis. The debate was concluded as in previous cases. We are voting first on a proposal to set up an investigative committee as a previous issue. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that this proposal has not been passed because it was voted by 37 votes in favour of, four abstentions and 64 against.
