ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36396	And now we'd continue to argue with what's coming on the agenda. This is - Work Report 2004 of the Commission on Securities of the Republic of Croatia; In accordance with Article 9. The Securities Market Act was submitted by the Securities Commission to that report. The debate is carried out by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. I would like to ask the representative of Ms. Mladenko Glamuzina's board member to give a sufficient explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36397	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the Securities Market Act, the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on its work and position on the securities market in the Republic of Croatia. The Commission submitted a comprehensive 2004 report to the Croatian Parliament with a number of tables and almost all data relating to events on the capital market in the Republic of Croatia during that period as well as a summary of that report. The Commission's primary purpose for securities is to regulate and monitor the securities market in the Republic of Croatia effectively. According to the Securities Market Act, the Commission is an independent and independent legal person, with public powers and corresponds to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. which shall appoint the members of the Commission. It consists of five members, one of whom is acting as President of the Commission. The members of the commission shall act professionally and may not be members of the Board of Directors, Supervisory and Management Boards, nor of the other bodies of the issuer of securities, nor shall they carry out any other service or work which may affect their independence of impartiality and independence. The Commission shall be 200'4 from 1 January to 30 June. The Croatian Parliament shall act as a full member of the five members and, with effect from 30 June 2004, to discharge the duties of one member of the Commission at its request. And by the end of the year, no new member of the commission has been appointed. According to unofficial information available to the Commission or to the members of the Commission, given the planned unification of the supervisory institutions of the Directorate for the Control of Insurance Companies, Hagena and the Securities Commission, the Government has no intention of proposing the completion of the fifth member of the Commission. Since August 1999, the Commission has been working in the same number with the same number of employees, although the number of entities under its supervision has increased several times. With December 31st 2004, the license of the Securities Commission with the central depositary agency of the two stock exchanges also had 16 banks, 26 brokerage companies, 112 brokers, 41 investment advisers and 46 investment funds. All public limited companies, 241 but also all other shares related to the issue of securities, are also under the Commission’s authority, acquisition or alienation of shares. That the number has increased multiplely compared to the commission's initial years of work should not even be mentioned and the number of employees, as we can see, has been on the same list for several years. The scope of the Commission’s regular operations in 2004 may be best discussed in 1047 of which 348 administrative cases, 699 non-administrative cases, and a total of 49 sessions were held. The report shall specify in detail all data, and figures related to the monitoring and issuance of securities, acquisition of stock companies, investment funds and other activities of the Commission. Therefore, it would not talk about this in detail, but there is one segment that is quite significant and that is the Commission's supervisory function. During the reporting period, the Commission adopted 53 solutions aimed at eliminating identified illegalities and irregularities and taking action to eliminate them. She filed 89 misdemeanor reports containing 121 offenses. And three criminal charges. In 2004, the Commission also took over all the securities business for two brokerage houses for violations of the law and for one brokerage house and for a few brokers were suspended on condition. On the basis of the infringements filed, the courts imposed fines of 2 million 724 thousand and 415 kuna over the reporting period. Which is the income of the state budget. However, I must express the Commission's dissatisfaction with the decisions of law enforcement courts which are generally benefiting from the possibility of the Law of Infringement, so as to give the defendants fines significantly below the prescribed penalties, and thus maintain that the reduced penalties can be achieved by the purpose of punishing the fact that the Assembly has taken account of the importance of financial discipline in the financial market, and thus has allowed financial infringements to be prescribed and greater amounts of fines which have been done and what has been done by the Parliament in the Securities Market Act and the Act on the takeover of stock companies. The example works for not including shares in the census of public stock companies is prescribed punishment for legal persons ranging from 60 thousand to one million kuna. And the court imposes a fine of ten thousand kunas while the person responsible in the legal person for whom the fine of 20 thousand to 200 thousand kuna is prescribed, the court imposes a penalty of 2 thousand kuna. Or an even more drastic example of not publishing bids for the acquisition of stock companies is prescribed fines for a legal person of 500 thousand to a million kuna, and the court imposes a fine of 10 thousand kuna. While for the responsible person in the legal person where it is prescribed. The responsible person in the legal person for whom the fine is prescribed is 500 thousand, from 50 thousand to 300 thousand kuna, the court imposes a fine of 1,000 kuna. In some cases where fines ranging from 60,000 to million kuna are prescribed, the court only utters a warning. In addition, in the commission, we can express dissatisfaction with the slow resolution of criminal reports, and in particular the criminal reports, and the fact that a large number of cases are becoming obsolete. The dispute of courts is particularly unacceptable in cases of customer damage by brokerage houses when sometimes millions of dollars. In early 2003, the Commission seized the permit of the brokerage house from Split and in January of the same year filed a criminal complaint against the responsible person for using the money of the employers to settle their current obligations, which is legally prohibited. And that damaged several clients worth 13 million kuna. A similar situation occurred in the middle of the same year 2003 when the Commission seized permission from the brokerage house from Zagreb, filed criminal charges against the responsible person, because of the damage to its clients for the amount of HRK 25 million. Both cases have been delivered to the Department of Economic Crime of the Ministry of the Interior, however, so far there is no solution or decision of the court. Fast, in fact, no positive messages are sent to the market, or to the participants. A quick decision and appropriate punishment would be a clear message to all other participants in the capital market to behave in accordance with the regulations and not engage in such illegal activities. In addition to doing regular jobs from its regulatory and supervisory domain during 2004 the Commission also took on several significant activities in the other segment of action. So we published new websites that allow transparency of the Commission's work, with a number of necessary and useful information for all participants in the capital market. We have established a real-time trading monitoring system on the Zagreb and Varazdin Stock Exchange or to simplify, the commission can now monitor current events on both markets during the day on the screen. We signed the Memorandum of Understanding with the regulatory bodies of parts of the countries in the environment and also signed an Agreement on the Cooperation and Exchange of Information in the Prevention and Disclosure of Money Laundering and the Prevention of Financing with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering of the Ministry of Finance. As far as the capital markets are concerned in 2004 the Croatian market will be remembered as the most successful in its relatively short history. In the last year, especially in the second part, the market has been experiencing picturesquely speaking, star moments breaking records at prices and percentages of earnings per share. The number of shares with a three-digit gain exceeded all similar periods from a not-so-long past. At the end of the year, it was really hard to find a stock with a price lower than in December 2003. The stock indices of both stock exchanges, total turnover and market capitalisation of shares also recorded the highest values. This growth in the capital market is highly due to domestic and foreign investment funds and institutional investors who have been taught the multiple growth of stock prices in countries that were admitted to EU membership last year have also started to invest significantly more in the Croatian market. The June decision by the European Union to approve Croatia's full membership candidate status has spurred expectations that the Croatian capital market will follow examples of regional and Baltic markets that have provided investors with significant rates before entering the Union. The unambiguous growth factor of the market is certainly also a quotation of public stock companies. There were few who believed that the administrative and legal obligation to include shares of public shareholders would be imposed, these are those companies that issued shares by public offering or have over 30 million underlying capital and over 100 shareholders, which would thus stop a negative trend on the market, but the rise in prices of newly incorporated shares and traffic achieved in the best way showed the justification of such a legal provision. And in the end, in 2004 we can only conclude that it was a year that would be difficult to repeat. We believe that a small contribution is likely made by the Securities Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36398	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Honorable Representative of Šima Prtenjača. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36399	Thank you very much. Here is why it is important, and also for today's day, to brief the committee's session on the views on this subject, which is an extremely significant economic event. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the work report for 2004 at the 27th session held on 30 March 2005. The Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Securities Commission to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 3 February 2005. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the material in question as the home working body. The Finance and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament also held an opinion written by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the report on the work of the Securities Commission for 2004 has no record. In the opening statement, the representatives of the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia is a legal person with public powers who independently and independently performs tasks within the framework of the Part-Circular and Jurisdiction of certain laws, and for his work corresponds to the Croatian Assembly. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Securities Market Act is required by the commission to submit once a year to the Croatian Parliament a report on its work for the past calendar year. The main activities in the Commission's work on RH securities in 2004 were: monitoring and issuing securities, monitoring the work of investment funds, regulating securities markets, performing control and monitoring operations of the capital market in 2004. During 2004, the Commission received a thousand 47 cases and of which 348 administrative, 699 irregular cases and held 49 sessions in the debate. On the Committee of the Presidents of the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee of the Republic of Croatia also referred to the presentation referred to this statement, which highlights the presentation sent to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament requesting the protection of investors in securities damaged by criminal actions by the brokerage house Ceufin brokers, namely in the period of 25. Seven. 2002 to 31. 12. In 2003, that brokerage house damaged investors by 5 million 519 thousand 744. Commission Decision on Securities of 18. 3. In 2004, Ceufin's brokerage house has been banned from working for a year since 1 April 2004, with the order to close all tasks within 60 days, correct work irregularities and obliterate clients. I'll comment on this later. Against Director Ceufin Brokers and his representative from Poreč, the commission submitted a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure on 18 March 2004. According to the Commission, Ceufin brokers d.o.o. from the date of the final decision of the Commission to the adoption of today, it has not carried out any of the work referred to in Article 34. Securities market law. However, Ceufin indeed alienated part of its own portfolio during that period, which the Commission considered would use to settle its obligations to its employers, which was also imposed on him by the Commission's decision. Since the securities were estranged, the Commission did not fulfil its obligations to its authorising officers on 10 February 2005, it banned all other shares held in Ceufina's account at the Central Depositary Agency from being made available on 60 days in order to take action for the court's payment of the claim. A representative of the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the Commission would comply with the provisions of Article 15(4). The Securities Market Act also imposes other measures necessary to remove the consequences of criminal actions committed by the Ceufin Brokers brokerage house. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia decided unanimously without discussion to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly on the adoption of the report. And we're going to comment on this because the board's position is ultimately oral. The request of the board was to take all measures for the clients who were damaged for this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36400	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36401	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a quick look at some of the problems in this body's work. In the introduction, say a few facts that have already been highlighted and for the sake of reminding and the importance of this commission. Maybe at the beginning you'll say this is a newspaper. Of course, during the socialist planning industry that everything was unknown and now that newspapers are both in the capital market and market and in the supervision of these markets that appear in the Croatian state today, resulting in certain irregularities, i.e. legal solutions that may at some point and are not adequate or can not satisfy the expectations of those participants on the capital market. Therefore, I would point out once again that the Securities Commission, which makes up five members, presidents and four, has actually been completed since 1 April 2004, which means that something could have happened during the period of time, even though certain events have occurred in this time. The Commission had 27 employees, I would like to say technically that we see later in the content of what it must do and what the problems of this problem arise from, of course, certain conclusions through this and that, in the meantime, one member of the five-member administration has resigned, i.e. the Parliament has not appointed a new one. That the number of employees is down by two, so instead of 27 today they have 25 etc. and that the size of the business has gradually increased during this period. I listed the content earlier, so I would now repeat to us which they have to carry out especially the points of 2004 and from this once again recapitulate that there were 1097 of which there were administrative 348, 699 irregularities, etc. There has been a lot of opinions through this work, because those who are preparing for the issue of securities or possibly preparing the market, of course, address with the opinion of such a commission, the commission is also obliged, and now it is trying to issue certain views, opinions to target market work or reduce dangers. It is also a function to combine money laundering control controls, and it is clear that it is also a newspaper, and that this administration must carry out part of the work in that area. The first significant task is to monitor the issue of securities. Of course by the number of participants and by content that have extremely significant and so much more difficult to control. Here comes the content of the issue of shares. Of course, in the last year there have been attempts, and there will be a future, or in a controlled year, reportable 2004 there was also an attempt to issue shares, hence their active participation in the work and those who failed, and there are also companies that tried and not all of them mentioned in the issue of shares. The second issue of bonds is not a newspaper, but actually for the first time there are certain forms of bonds, especially in the case of ammunition bonds that two cities have issued for the first time. There, of course, should be controlled preparation, publishing and everything else that follows. Then the issue of corporate bonds, several companies in Croatia issued their bonds in that year. In particular, the paper is of course for this time and issue on the domestic but also on the foreign market of these bonds so that control and participation and participation in external control are required. The expenditures that are and the companies that are, therefore, are not of the utmost importance but of the phenomenon that is happening in that time and the need for supervision resulting from this. Companies are also listed as trying to take over companies, and there have been some problems or doubts about how to dispose as well as taking over stock companies. We will later see that almost one third of the takeover took place in the tourist sector, which of course needs to be controlled specifically from this mass that appeared safely in this area with certain weaknesses and failures that occur. In that period there were, but staying to a wolf, I will not deliberately appoint companies because we will also see in the 2005 reports that there were also those companies and ways and attempts to take over that borderline with legality and of the more significant impact and control of the Securities Control Commission. I also highlight all the funds that need to be controlled and all the forms of funds that are controlled at that time and the phenomena that occur through the funds and again the risk options, errors of intentional or unintended in all these funds that occur. It was in that year in the control of the securities market and the withdrawal of permits and authorisations for work. That should be pointed out. And it seems to me that here exactly the legislation should, in this experience, now, what we see and these next cases, probably also reflect on the Commission's particularly enhanced control function, but also on some corrective measures that can possibly be done interveningly to control market capital control. I also think about the direct role, but also that indirect role for the sake of the time it takes because not to let those famous ones' syndrome happen as they were called funds in the 1990s when without control, or with very little control of that financial engineering being conditionally stated, although this is about completely different phenomena, whether with possible similar consequences as is similar to that of... It actually happened. [[You don't understand.]] In this regard, therefore, this confiscation of market intervention should be accelerated and direct action should be allowed to shorten the time needed to take place. In the case of stock market surveillance, we have two exchanges of Zagreb and Varazdinska and there are huge business volumes of securities that are marketable and the ability to control regardless of directly established connections and day-to-day control, i.e. up-to-date control in the area, of course we should specifically monitor this area. When especially apostrophe of this supervisory function and regardless of the future solutions we will have, taught by this experience because we on several occasions of course customers are damaged. I repeat similar modality as with financial engineering happened with Ceaufin, and if they hadn't, simply the commission couldn't intervene directly to prevent further endangering the interest or financial risk of those clients being led to them. This may encourage us to consider something different, that supervisory function, or an enhanced supervisory function so that it can then act to protect investors in that time so that they do not experience the consequences that occurred earlier and later in the banks that occurred at a certain time. Here's what it all comes from, that this surveillance especially at this firm, I've read the text but there's no need to point out again, but I'm publicly pointing out exactly for the risk that Ceufin Broker's brokerage house actually did one precedent so far in securities trading and that it didn't actually act on the Commission's findings. There was also an observation whether the commission had taken action in time or not, but in our opinion and later we saw that actually the commission might have been able to intervene a little earlier, and that the consequences did not result from the time intervention, but from the later procedure that is being initiated by the courts and now the time that the courts have made the necessary decisions, those 60 days that were given to the possibility of possible compensation or compensation of the participants had actually lost time, lost funds and capital. And finally the question of responsibility then the individual is actually asking the positive question or negatively, but positive for whoever is ready to play such a game that he is actually driven because such consequences are not significant, so in this function of supervisory we will all need to do more together through regulation and in this commission, but also overall in this area because the capital market in Croatia is rapidly developing. And it wouldn't be good for us to be even harder or worse off than this case to encourage thinking already now to be indicative enough to take the necessary measures. There were words and only to point out this function of the capital market in total and these two stock exchanges in the last year, and already for 2004, we heard the largest, and the growth index was the most significant. Well then, various speculations later that occurred and were now about whether there was a reaction to Croatia's decision or whether to accept Avis and then the situation around Europe. Of course, every more serious debate in the country also reflects on the capital market. In fact, it's the barometer that responds most easily to everything. But fortunately, in the end, all of this together has one stable growth and growth in these, in that capital market, and it is likely that it is not a restriction that the ammunition form should be even more active in our society, but it is conditioned in this way by the market situation. Although the commission is autonomous and independent, I know one case, but I don't think it would be good if anyone in any way tried through this institution to possibly control interesting or uninteresting societies or capital or phenomena, but to directly exercise supervision and the legality of taking autonomous measures towards the court that I have previously pointed out. Overall during this period of 2004, the stock market control, when I think of the market, is primarily these two in Zagreb and Varazdinska. We believe that it was, come on, correct and legal although there are certain doubts, at least they are given to hear that, and I personally heard from the representatives of one house or another not to work under the same conditions, which I couldn't qualify for. But then I say that for the very reason that the Securities Commission has to control these areas in a very good way, and that we in the Assembly during these discussions, seeing these problems, we are apostrophe, or we are instigating another debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we support this information. All of these, of course, phenomena in that year can be commented on in one way or another, and this issue is technically about supervision, teamwork and the rest of the Commission, I think it will be necessary to resolve and fill in even more soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36402	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36403	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected gentlemen from the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia. This report is considered significant because it shows the degree of development of the Croatian securities market. Of course, it is quite clear that for most Croatian citizens, this topic that we are now discussing is space far away and that many of them with great surprise follow those figures that appear in front of the weekly, or daily and editions of news on Croatian television. This Commission has an extremely high responsibility for introducing order on the securities market and I am therefore glad that my predecessor mentioned the case of the Ceofin Brokers. For those who are not informed, it is the company that bought the Solaris hotels in Sibenik and which, as I later heard, is an irregularity in the work from its predecessor's report. There's no dispute in our court. Infringement of the Securities Act, violation of the Act on the takeover of companies, violation of the Company Act means or should mean elimination from the securities market in each country. And if the Commission did so, then she did well. If you're waiting for a court ruling, that's not good. Engaging and cheating with securities is the same thing as messing around and cheating with cash. If it was a robbery, of course it wouldn't react. If it's about tampering with securities right now, we should wait for the court's decisions. No, absolutely not. We ask that the Securities Commission must have all the powers and similar regulatory bodies in other countries in which securities are operated and therefore it is necessary to make a quick decision and a rapid reaction in these situations. That is why we have received the news with disdain that the Commission is not yet fully teamed, and it is evident that the Croatian securities market is growing year after year. It is a good thing that the Commission's information link was made to both exchanges in Croatia, both with Zagreb and that of Varazdinski. That this has been made more transparent and efficient business, but it must have been more transparent and effective control of this Commission over possible malfeasances, and there will likely be even more cases that will be seen in due time and their perpetrators removed from the securities market. Croatia doesn't have to be afraid of anything here. We have seen similar things in all transition countries, i.e. in all other countries that have entered the world of capitalism. If all of them had a variety of brokerage houses that were trying to get a quick hand while most of the population had no idea what it was really about, they'd come to capital. And these and all the other violations that are listed here aren't unusual. We'll be seeing them for the next few years, but I repeat, a quick reaction from this Commission is crucial. We, therefore, support this Report, think that it is good and in this regard we just want to remind ourselves of another fact, which is that during this year, "transparency obligations will be applied in the European Union", therefore, a directive on the obligation to transparency, which includes the transparency of ownership. It is amazing but true that if you look at the website of the Central Depositary Agency in a rare number of Croatian companies, you can find for their owners, i.e. a part of the shareholders listed only trust funds in individual Croatian banks, and in fact you do not know who is behind these trust funds. If Croatia wants to continue its path towards the European Union, then it is necessary to follow this directive as soon as possible, to implement it and to find out as soon as possible who owns certain Croatian companies. I hereby conclude this my brief presentation and the HSP Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36404	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honourable representative Plasimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36405	President-in-Office, Commissioner-in-Office. This report can be observed in, with two aspects or with two views. One question, of course, is the Commission's work on securities itself, and there are two comments, 1 comments and 1 suggestion in essence there is no reason for dissatisfaction but even more reason to be satisfied. We have reason to be satisfied because there have been no major financial affairs on the domestic market, no major public stock companies have failed, no listed companies, no other securities issued on the domestic market have been depreciated, but that does not mean that such situations will never happen in the future. Many fates are tied in Croatia to people with some form of securities. That dissatisfaction is quite certain that the commission had not had half a year, had not been fully filled but was missing one member of the commission, I really do not see any valid reason why the commission could not act all year long, if one of the members had resigned it was necessary to react and appoint another member. Unfortunately, when we remember in 2003, the situation was even worse, then the commission acted only with three members, so it was even more difficult and I think that we as parliamentary representatives and as the Croatian Parliament should not treat this commission in such a way that there were 6 months, or not now 6 but almost 9 months in a position to appoint a member of the commission that the commission would be doing a very important job in Croatia on which many fates depend. And secondly, I fully agree with the predecessors and I think that there is also a need to strengthen the control function of the commission and the possibility that the commission is currently responding in a situation where there are some irregularities on the capital market because if you leave enough time as is apparent in... whether it is then possible for the owners of a brokerage house or other participants in the capital market to benefit, i.e. to reduce their damage to the account of the investor or investor which would certainly not be, would not be good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On this side, I certainly fully support the Commission's work on securities. What is really significant is what was happening in the capital market in 2004 and should therefore be said, that indeed one date, which is to determine the candidate status of the Republic of Croatia as a candidate for the European Union, marked an extremely high interest in European capital, and even outside of the European capital that has hoarse in Croatia during the night and raised both stock indices and market capitalisation and trading volumes on the stock exchange. That's obvious and obvious because 18. 4, 18. 3. Pardon me, there has been a decline in stock indices, a decline in the value of shares, a decline in market capitalisation, so, when negotiations have not started, it is obvious that part of that capital that has entered Croatia, the Croatian capital market, from the Croatian capital market, is now slowly returning those frameworks as before Croatia's candidate status. This is an example of why it is really important for Croatia to start negotiations with, as soon as possible, on the accession of the European Union, because these negotiations have shown here, and that is, the movement in this process has shown an extremely great benefit for a large number of Croatian citizens. It is necessary to see how many Croatian citizens sold more valuable shares, so they bought or had shares of less value and were in a position to sell shares that practically doubled or tripled their value within three or four months. This trend of growth that was in the second half of the year continued until 17. 3. Unfortunately, here we are after 17. The 3rd thing turned around and the indexes had a downward trend again. But we were talking about growth, maybe we should say exactly the figures that are, and that is, that, that stock indices have increased by 30%, over 30% on one and the other stock exchange, that, traffic has increased by over 90%, that market capitalisation has increased by over 70%, or when we turn it into absolute figures, then market capitalisation is then, with a comparable period of one year before, from some 73 billion kuna to 127 billion kuna to both stocks. This is indeed an extremely large increase in market capitalisation but unfortunately when compared to the Central European Stock Exchanges, then we must say that our two stock exchanges are less than any other Central European Market Capitalisation Stock Exchange and that even this increased market capitalisation of our two stock exchanges is about 10% of the market capitalisation, for example, of the Vienna Stock Exchange. So it is obvious that there are still not enough securities issued on our market, that there is a huge potential and that there is likely to be a huge potential for growth of values, issued securities. What concerns me here is that we only have three shares in the first quotation of the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Therefore, only three stock companies, including Pliva, Podravka and Croatia, were able to issue shares that met the very strict criteria of the first quotation. All the other shares that were traded and included were included in the practical basis of the Public Stock Society Act, so the vast majority of them would probably not have been on the market had it not been for such coercion. The transparency of the business of the company is a very large or large difference in the transparency of the business between companies that are listed by public shareholders in relation to companies that are in the first quotation and should indeed see how to encourage, motivate more companies in Croatia to decide to be included in the highest quotation of one of the two stock exchanges, and ultimately it will give security to foreign investors or domestic investors to invest in shares of domestic companies because they will say here you see you have more than three companies that can meet the criteria of the first quotation. What marked last year is quite certain the issue of ammunition bonds and here it should be said that two cities, that is Koprivnica as the first and Zadar as the second city, have issued municipal bonds under the Securities Act. Before that, Opatija and Istria County had issued bonds but not according to the strict criteria of the Securities Act, so these two cities respected the procedure of making a prospectus, that they had advisers, that they had approval from the Securities Commission and what is most important these two bonds are listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, Koprivnica and Zadar, i.e. the Koprivnica and the Varazdin Stock Exchange. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria, for example, we have a segment of municipal bonds, which is between 7 and 8% of the market capitalisation of the Vienna Stock Exchange, which means that there is a huge space here for our municipalities, cities and counties to be owed by issuing securities rather than by raising loans. And in the end, it should be said that in one stock exchange, there was an even greater space for growth and development of the capital market in Croatia, on the other with 156, the vast majority of these papers are the same because they quote, or are listed in one and the other stock exchange, so there is an even greater space for growth and development of the capital market in Croatia to give sufficient security or to increase investor security on the one hand and on the other hand, I think it is necessary to consider giving stronger powers to the Securities Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36406	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36407	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Securities Commission, as can be seen from the presented 2004 report, fulfilled its basic tasks, which is regulation and supervision of the securities market in the Republic of Croatia. At the time of the capital market expansion as it was in 2004, which will remain as remembered as the most successful in the relatively short history of the capital market is the most important role of monitoring and controlling the growing financial market. The timely taking of measures and actions to determine illegality and irregularities on the capital market shall ensure what is important, the proper functioning and safety of that market. That is why I find it extremely important to establish a systematic monitoring of real-time trade on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Communication to the stock exchanges provides the Commission with full and complete supervision of the legality of labour in the capital market. The opening of the website of 1 September 2004 enabled the wide availability of up-to-date information from the capital market to participants, i.e. providing them with insight into a number of necessary and useful information; insight into registers, solutions, opinions, laws and sublaws, forms and public information books. It should be noted that during 2004, the commission received 1047 items of which 348 administrative cases and 649 irregular cases and held a total of 49 sessions. Indicators that are read from this report on the situation of the capital market are very important and important for the assessment of the situation but also for the projection of the development of the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. The data on financial developments in the capital market are already clearly talking about intensive activity. Thus, the total turnover on the Zagreb Stock Exchange amounted to 23.7 billion kuna, up by a record 92% compared to the previous year. There was nothing less alive on the Varazdin Stock Exchange where a 1.3 billion turnover was achieved without public auctions and interinstitutional traffic and an even greater increase of 92.68%. The same trend shows a stock index on both markets which ended up at the highest level in history in 2004. The Zagreb Stock Exchange Krobex grew by 32.1% and the Varazdin Stock Exchange "Vin Index" increased by as much as 127.28%. In addition to record traffic on both markets, there is an even more significant indicator of the development of the domestic capital market in market capitalisation. This growth was 70.7% on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and 78.6% on the vargine market. The biggest impact on this growth in market capitalisation stems from the increase in bond trade. Over the past year, 11 new bond issues have been listed on the market, 5 states or from countries guaranteed two municipal ones, these 4 corporate ones. The issue of bonds is particularly important structural change in the composition of the capital market. Commercial companies provide the necessary capital for growth and improvement of business and investment by issuing bonds while investment funds on the other hand receive a market for the placement of their assets with a solid profit. It is particularly important to highlight the increase in the number of investment funds. During 2004, the commission approved the establishment of a 4 new open investment fund. 31.12.2004 business, business in the Republic of Croatia 41 open funds and 5 closed investment funds. The total assets managed by the funds amounted to 5.7 billion kuna. The total assets of open funds at the end of 2004 amounted to € 4.5 billion, which increased by 53% compared to 2003, while the total assets of closed investment funds amounted to €1.2 billion, which is an increase of 21%. The favourable, favourable political circumstances resulting from the extraordinary efforts of our government to identify the fundamental values of a large number of our companies and strengthen the security and reliability of the market, i.e. to ensure trust led to significant inflow and foreign capital. And finally, I believe that this report gave us a good insight into the state of the domestic capital market, but also that it is the basis for a policy for future development. Strengthening and growing trading of shares, bonds and other securities inevitably enables the creation of capital for growth in the economy, fostering investment and ultimately increasing gross domestic product and a better standard of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36408	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Third, report on work for 2004 of the Commission on securities of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work for the 2004 Commission on securities of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 100 votes for and 1 abstention the proposed conclusion has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36411	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a report on the implementation of the 2003 statistical activity programme and the 2005 statistical activity programme. As the programme is an annual implementation plan for 2005, part of the programme of statistical activity in 2004, adopted by this Parliament a few months ago, as according to this programme, the State Statistics Institute is already carrying out statistical activities I would not particularly bother you with some introduction but after the debate and during the debate and any amendments I would like to give an explanation. On the implementation of the 2003 program, it really doesn't even make sense to me to say anything at all. In addition, there were no objections. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36412	Thank you very much. The committees? He won't ordinarily explain the report. All right. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36413	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Party Club of Rights will focus most on demographics and social statistics or statistics on internal migration of the population, statistics on external migration of the population, migration statistics and population projections. We know that he is the holder and official statistics, he is the holder of the State Statistics Institute, and the reporting unit of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Without a doubt, statistics on the internal migration of the population of external migration statistics and population projections are necessary for each serious and responsible country. For its democratic and economic development and for its national security. And at the 15th session of the Committee on Immigration, it was shown that Croatia does not have such data. The 2003 report on page 15 of Chapter 2 The projects and the expert methodological works show migration statistics that migration statistics have launched a study of international recommendations. The transactions provided for in 2003 were not fully carried out due to detailed control and analysis of the quality of the census data of households and dwellings in 2001. Dr. Crescent. Jakov Gele, director of the State Statistics Institute, made it clear that the worst part of the statistics is the one that provides the Ministry of Statistics to the national statistical office a reporting unit for migration. The 15th session was confirmed by a representative of the MUP, as it was only able to provide information that 13 500 people submitted a request for admission to Croatian citizenship last year, and the MUP rejected 3,000 requests. However, the MUP has no record of the number of Croats who applied for admission to Croatian citizenship. So at the HSP Club, we're interested in whether the MUP has sufficient human and material resources to do these jobs. Can the MUP do them unless some laws are amended and under legal laws. Like. Law on residence and residence of citizens who remained from the old system and without amending the Foreign Law. We couldn't even get an answer to the following questions. How many foreigners are on the extended stay, how many foreigners have applied for permanent stay. How many foreigners have applied for Croatian citizenship. How many persons a year get Croatian citizenship. HOW many Croatian citizens have requested leave from Croatian citizenship? And there will be no such answer before the foreign law is amended, for this law does not distinguish the Croats of the settlers and the returnees from the foreigners. ALL persons who enter Croatia and do not have Croatian citizenship are put in the same bag. The MUPs are obviously busy with jobs that cannot be done, because they are in part a business that does not work anywhere in the European countries. Like. Issuing work permits to foreigners. In other countries, it's done by the Ministry of Immigration or by the Foreign Office. Without a change to the Foreign Law, Croatia will not be able to obtain reliable information about the number of foreign nationals moving in Croatia and Croatian immigration policy cannot be determined. The government has a legal obligation to submit Croatian immigration policy to the Croatian Parliament. She also established a working group that should draw up some sort of resolution on this matter but no one has heard anything about government migration policy yet. We are all witnessing immigration for the Croatian opportunities of a large number of foreigners, mostly shoe dealers and clothing. These foreigners who establish companies dealing with the traffic of Croatian real estate. The core capital of these societies is 20 thousand kuna. These business people don't bring anything into Croatia, they just trade in Croatian real estate. Many companies founded only to obtain business and work visas and serve only as help to put away worthless foreign goods in Croatia. The M.O.P. doesn't control it anymore. The result is the awakening of the grey economy, the loss of jobs and the collapse of the Croatian textile industry. A total of 5,000 364 work permits were issued last year to foreign citizens. Of which 1722 work permits were issued to workers from BiH, 512 work permits were issued to Turkish citizens, 356, German 248, Italian 230, citizens of Serbia-Montenegro 229, Slovenians 176, citizens of America 122. Hungarians 119. How many foreigners actually entered Croatia last year and works in Croatia on black. Nobody knows that. But there's no M.O.P. How many beds are there? The illegals that Croatia serves for a shorter stay in order to prepare the passage to other countries. In 2003, a total of 45 thousand 619 foreign citizens lived in Croatia. Of that, 18,974 wastes on citizens of BiH and 9574 on citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. The site bought 3444 properties in Croatia, of which the Irish bought 600 houses in Croatia last year. In Croatian press, there are doubts that part of the companies involved in the trafficking of Croatian real estate are engaged in money laundering. The real number of properties owned by a foreigner is twice as large, many other properties are purchased at a previously established company in Croatia and then no permission from the Ministry is required. Finally, the State Statistics Institute does not have reliable data on migration and will not have reliable data for 2005 until the Act on Foreigners and some other laws is amended and until the MUP is qualified to collect migration-related statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36414	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36415	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me introduce that the HSS Club supports the proposal for an annual implementation plan as well as a report on the 2003 statistical research programme. When we talk about the annual implementation plan already under way, the HSS Club would just like to point out that sufficient resources are needed for all these researches. And we had a chance to see that last year we were rebalanced something, and then we often get into a position that we couldn't do a certain amount of business because of a lack of funds. Personally, I remember when, ten years ago as mayor, I was also the head of the statistical office that we had a lot of extensive research and jobs for which there must be then a part of the funds that can adequately monitor that part. In order to have certain competent data, especially what we want to highlight is the particular statistics of agriculture, we must also have a part of the resources in order to then, later on, on the basis of these adequate data and to create then a quality policy. In this case, agricultural policy. When we're talking about doing a statistical research program for 2003, then I'd like to say a few words about it. Negotiations for full membership in the European Union between the EU and candidate countries play a very important role in the statistical system, i.e. to introduce European statistical standards into candidate countries. In this respect, regional statistics are particularly important, i.e. indicators, which will provide the basis for an assessment of acceptability when running with assistance and EU structural funds. Which is already coming to us. In this part, the agricultural statistics of the regional accounts for agriculture, continuous land use and plant production statistics, regional data on the stock fund, are particularly significant. As a survey of farm structures, they form a set of information for the illustration of agriculture in certain regions. And I'm sure they're important for seeing one of the right states. Regional agricultural accounts provide basic data to determine the regional income of farms and the detailed division of the final entry explains the concentration of production and regional specialisation. In 2003, continued harmonisation of Croatian statistics in line with European Union standards and special improvements were achieved with regard to the reliability of their availability data and the public. In particular, I would like to highlight the 2003 agricultural list which, in cooperation with FINA, started a comprehensive survey in 2003 and the methodology of research was fully consistent with the regulations and recommendations of the Eurostat, the Agricultural List Act, was adopted for the purpose of carrying out the list also because it was in line with the European Union legislation, the comparison tables and the list of laws and regulations of the Eurostat on which the Ministry of European Integration gave a positive opinion. The agricultural census was conducted on its own for the first time in more than 40 years. The data from the list enables the start of the transformation of agricultural statistics, which is significant from national and international aspects. In 2003, the agricultural list served as a basis for the production and preparation of statistical bases for the establishment of the initial register of agricultural holdings in line with the structure and definitions of the European Union. Then under 2nd, setting out a new rear framework for agricultural research, sample selection and collection methods in line with the European Union recommendations and national resources. According to the 2003 statistical research programme, a total of 20 research and three projects and three projects were envisaged in the area of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. As a result, both the HSS Club's report and the other report feel that it can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36416	Thank you very much. Mr. Director, will you give a final review or something? If you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36417	I can only confirm what we heard. Unfortunately, as a demographic, we agree with the views you've heard about migration data, and until we have a population register and we change the laws, we won't be able to have better data. Here's what I wouldn't have more to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36418	Thank you very much. Mr. Director, I would suggest that you propose and initiate both the Government and the Parliament to amend these laws that are necessary in order for statistics to be closely monitored on migration. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2005 The debate on the text of the proposal for a plan has been concluded. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Gender Equality. Mr. Director, Mr. State Statistics Service Mr. Jacob Gelo. Here you go. We have 26 amendments to the committee. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36420	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36421	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part of the plan. The other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36422	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36423	It's becoming an integral part. Third?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36424	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36425	Give me a brief explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36426	The content of this programme is complex, and otherwise, according to the European Union methodology, it is not intended to be shown by sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36427	Amendment withdrawn number 3. Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36428	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36429	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Fifth?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36430	Fifth doesn't accept. Explanation as well as Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36431	Amendment 5 withdrawn. Six?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36432	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36433	It's part of the station. Seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36434	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36435	It's becoming an integral part. Eight?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36436	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36437	It's becoming an integral part. Nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36438	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36439	It's also an integral part of the station. Ten?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36440	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36441	It's becoming an integral part. 11?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36442	11. Not accepted. This report is done by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and this year it is not possible to prepare data and show by sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36443	Retracted 11. 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36444	The 12th is a mistake, because the 9th is a repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36445	All right. Retracted. 13?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36446	It's the 13th.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36447	It's becoming an integral part of the plan. 14?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36448	14. not accepted, same explanation as for 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36449	Retracted. 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36450	It is also not accepted and the explanation is as for the 11th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36451	Amendment 15 withdrawn 16?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36452	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36453	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 17?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36454	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36455	It's becoming an integral part. 18?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36456	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36457	It's getting complicated. 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36458	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36459	It's becoming an integral part. 20?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36460	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36461	It's becoming an integral part. 21?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36462	It's also acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36463	It's becoming an integral part. 22?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36464	The 22nd part is accepted. In the monthly reports on the structure of users, it is shown by sex, and in other reports it is not accepted at the level of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36465	Accepted by the applicant in changed form. 23?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36466	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36467	Retracted. Thank you very much. 24?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36468	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36469	Retracted. 25?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36470	The 25th doesn't really make sense, because it's about legal persons, so gender exposure is not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36471	Pulled 25. 26?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36472	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36473	Reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36474	The National Statistics Bureau is monitoring the perpetrators of criminal acts by subject matter and sex. So by gender, crimes are manifested, further arguments have no Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36475	Then we should vote on this. For Amendment 26, please engage. You can vote. The result? 37 for the amendment, 18 abstentions and 52 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm voting on the draft plan. ... How's 27? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's not 27, he's 26. I therefore vote on the proposal for a plan for the implementation of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2005. Please engage. We can vote. How about a score? 104, are these two of Alemka's colleagues and I falling in? So 104 for and 2 abstentions and 1 against. ... Don't leave me alone about why it doesn't work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36488	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This report is the result of a legal obligation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions to the Parliament under the Penal Code. However, regardless of the legal obligation, I think that in front of this high House, other than the judiciary, there is also a need to discuss something, which is prisons, so where persons who are convicted, prison sentences support this prison sentence and that it is an opportunity to draw attention to both the state and the work of those working in that system on the one hand and to the treatment of those who support those penalties. In the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, there is a special administration, the Administration of the Prison System, which performs administrative and professional tasks related to the execution of prison sentences, i.e. penalties imposed in criminal and criminal proceedings, and the replacement of the sentence of superlative punishment when the fine is replaced by the sentence of imprisonment and the sentence of detention. Of course, the prison and juvenile prison sentences are not carried out directly within that administration, but are executed in 7 penitentiary prisons, and the detention and detention measures for up to 6 months in 14 prisons, with the existence of a special institution, a health institution in a prison hospital in which diagnostics, treatment and basic treatment are carried out by persons in support of the prison sentence. If we look at the typeology of the prison and the penitentiary towards the degree of security and freedom of movement of the prisoners, the penitentiary in Clay, Leprechaun and the prison hospital are closed. Penitentiary in Lipovica Popovaca and penitentiary in Turopolje are semi-open. And Penitentiary Volturi is an open penitentiary. By being a penitentiary in Pozega for women and in her... Juvie prison and they're closed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for men, the penitentiary in Požega is half open. Prisons as special criminal authorities are the authorities of enforcement of detention and imprisonment measures and they are therefore always a closed type. If we look at the numerical state of the persons in charge of carrying out the prison sentence, then for surveillance and auxiliary services. So the numerical state in terms of the officers, the inmates in the prison system, is something that is one constant pain in this system because there are not enough personnel that could carry out this truly responsible and difficult task. So if we look at the situation, I'll look back on 2004 only, although it's also a report for 2003 and 2004. At the end of 2004, 2,000 366 perpetrators were employed in the prison system, which is even less than a systematic number for 467 perpetrators. And if we look at the number of people most often in the focus of interest, that's what, insurance officers, judicial police, of the established number of 537 employees at the end of this year was only employed by a thousand 361 perpetrators, which is even by 176 perpetrators less. And that is something that is regularly observed in reports from international institutions, the Council of Europe when visiting our prison institutions. So the need to really adequately fill this system on one side. What may be interesting and what is really difficult to find in the prison system may not be the ones working on insurance in the judicial police, but it is the most difficult to fill it with medical staff, nurses, doctors, psychologists who are important segments of treatment in these institutions. But unfortunately, it's simple, sometimes it's hard to fill. And an additional segment warns us about the Council of Europe and the members of the institution and what is systematically within the ministry, especially in the prison system is the education of those working with prisoners within the prison system, i.e. within the Administration of the Prison System, a special centre for the education of the prison system has been established and there is, on a regular basis, education, so 14 different seminars, consultations, workshops were held last year. In addition to the inadequate number of prison staff, officials and tenants, the ongoing problem of our prison system is also a real re-acceptation due to inadequate spatial accommodation in individual penitentiary facilities and prisons. This is particularly evident in prisons, in large centres such as Varazdin, Split, Rijeka where prisons are usually located in the city centre by courts where they are of their nature closed type, and where the re-retraction is sometimes 130 to 170% higher than the optimal conditions and, of course, creates problems with the aspect of security so that as a permanent task and problem, the question of adaptation and additional security measures of these areas is raised in order to meet the conditions that should be met for prisoners. As far as prisoners are concerned, if we look at the number in 2003 in the prison system, there were approximately 2,000 998 prisoners. And if we look at the structure of the crimes for which they support prison sentences, then it shows us that the most common number is due to crimes against life and the body, about 32%. They are followed by crimes against property, 30%, and then 16% crime against the value of protected international first. 8% are crimes against sexual freedom and miracles. I'm not going to count it any further because it's contained in the written report. And in terms of the number of years for which persons are sentenced for whom they are sentenced, the maximum percentage of 30% of prisons is held from 1 to 3 years, and 21% approximately 5 to 10 years. Of course, just maintaining a prison sentence isn't just about shutting you down and then doing nothing even though it's a repressive measure, but it also has the purpose of resociating and preparing those people for later inclusion in their community so that they take a series of measures. In the case of alcoholism or drugs, measures of drug and alcohol treatment and other security measures, and then one of the important measures and which is otherwise being warned and which is the legal obligation and work of prisoners so that it is regularly organised both in units inside and out of prison and there are auxiliary works such as kitchen work and so on. As for the security situation regarding certain incidents that would have occurred, they did not, of course, have or should not be covered up. Usually public attention attracts some big cases. However, they are not so much as to give the impression that the security situation is alarming or that people who work there are really responsible and consciously not doing their job. Of course it should be constantly promoted. I said that one of the reasons and problems why sometimes it can't be prevented in a timely manner is that it's really an inadequate number of people doing the job. So at the end of this report I tried to shorten it,... in detail really written in the written report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia after this report was received and after it was actually found that the difficulties and problems of this system were indeed not filled with the corresponding number of people, that indeed the spatial accommodation of the requirement of a rapid reaction to extend and further ensure that the security system should be expanded especially in those environments, prisons that are closer to the centre as video surveillance and similar. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has entrusted two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and Finance, the one that gives money to cover the losses, to provide additional funds to fill the required number of officials and subsistences in these institutions, and to provide funds in order to eventually, during this year, resolve the issue of accommodation and adaptation of these areas. In fact, talks with the ministry are under way and this year should be secured approximately 500 million kuna in order to secure these funds. I thank you for your attention and so much in short and important.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36489	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters? The chairman of the Justice Committee, the esteemed representative of Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36490	Dear President, gentlemen of the ministry. At the 22nd session held on 9 March 2005, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2002 and 2004 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report in question was examined by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body. All segments of the system, structure and personnel, capacities, standards and conditions of prisoner accommodation, security status, condition of facilities and equipment, financial reports are included in the exhausting assistant of the Minister for the Prison System. A special problem in operating in the system is the attitude, since the system lacks 467 perpetrators according to systematicised jobs. During 2004, the capacity fill in the open conditions is below 60% while the closed conditions have been re-tracted among which the Split model is visible. The state of security of the prison system, other than the lack of number of officials, is reflected in the lack of security equipment such as the video surveillance system, special vehicles, detectors, drug and alcohol testing devices, etc. The state of some objects is not satisfactory with regard to construction parts of buildings, installations, equipment and the like. The prison system administration in 2004 had 22 million kuna debt. The total debt coverage was not resolved in 2005 either but a food production project for its own needs was launched to reduce debt growth in one part. In the debate, board members supported the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational prisons. It is the opinion of the board members that the prison system works in a satisfactory way despite existing problems. Special credit to the functioning of the system belongs to the employees themselves. The Committee member recalled the debate on the policy of punishment in the Republic of Croatia, which is, in many estimates of goods with a lot of conditional convictions, about the purpose of sentenceing under 6 months, the expectations of tightening the policy of punishment, and all these issues are necessarily related to ensuring the conditions of enforcement and the problems contained in the report. The Committee supports the Ministry of Justice's intention to find ways to fill the vacancy in the prison system, obtain the necessary equipment and improve the living and working conditions of the system, therefore recommending the Government of the Republic of Croatia to try to provide additional funding for the prison system in line with that conclusion. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. First, a report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2003 and 2004 is accepted. Secondly, it is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia make efforts to provide additional financial resources to the Ministry of Finance's prison system in line with its conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36491	Thank you. Any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of HNS representatives, pardon HSLS DC's respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36492	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Ms. Secretary of State. The DC Club and HSLS supported this report with one conclusion that it is good to hear that in these times when there are different objections to prisons in the world, say America, etc. that there is no abuse, that Croatia is in spite of all its difficulties and problems in the transition period to respect the basic elements, the fundamental rights of the accommodation of prisoners and that, in fact, such institutions are not the places of some new punishments and torture sites, but rather that it is one place where man can face himself, what he did, and that in the end when he serves what he came to prison to actually come out as a new person who will be useful to this society. In that sense, we support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36493	Thank you. HSP club, a respected representative of Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36494	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the prison is an institution in which people support the sentence because they have sinned against Croatian laws. Except, of course, the Privatisation Act, because those who have sinned against the law are neither condemned nor in prison allegedly due to antiquity. But regardless of the severity of punishment and the worst of prisons, they must meet minimum standards and protect the human dignity of prisoners. In the HSP, we hold that this report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2004 is very stressed by the need for debate on the state of our penitentiary. From the very conclusion of this Report, the measures to be taken shall be imposed. The lack of personnel is their greatest illogicality because it is clear to everyone that a system must have minimum conditions for functioning. I suppose the lack of personnel is caused by poor motivation for this kind of work. Which is due to low wages, which is due to technical conditions and, of course, the nature of the job itself. The question arises which measures is being taken by the Ministry of Justice to begin solving this situation? It is also seen from the conclusion of this Report that the general situation in the penitentiary, prisons, and educational institutions is, in the least, difficult for all participants in the process. Whether it's about punished persons, whether it's about those who care about their punishment or their safety. This condition is always a reflection of the policy towards the problem. It seems that Croatia's official policy is underestimating the weight of the problems that can be read from the actual situation, and we in HSP believe that this situation must change and that the situation in the penitentiary must be one of the priority issues that the government must start dealing with because this situation has far-reaching consequences beyond this area and can only continue to deteriorate. Take the situation in the foster care facility in Turopoly. I can say that firsthand because I was there the other day. The condition of the facility is collapsing, the dormitory is terrifying. That's right, you can't believe the beds for those kids. Professional staff is insufficient, there aren't enough. Children who, for some reason, end up there, who most of these children didn't even have a warm family home, when they end up there and when they see that, when they see that, where at least a minimum can be provided they have nothing then they will grow further with the belief that they have all given up. In principle, the HSP club supports this report and notes that even if these minors are given a better chance of the future, they are still working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36495	Thank you. The HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36496	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant. To tell you the truth, I didn't intend to talk about this subject because we know what the situation in the prison system is and that it's really not easy for the Justice Department to run one such system. I think the key problem is actually somewhere else. It's a matter of positioning a system like this. The key question is whether or not such a system belongs to the Ministry of Justice. Of course there are various models, but given our prison system as it is and what Europe is applying to our Law on the System of State Administration, it is certain that this administration is seeking certain independence in work. This administration lives 24 hours a day and is seeking a certain independence that I believe is my turn to finally get out of the Justice Department and get that independence. We unnecessarily burden the Ministry of Justice with the work of this administration, and we also burden the administration with formal commitment to the Ministry of Justice. If we've passed the State Protection and Rescue Authority Act in this House last year, I don't see any reason why we didn't do the same here. That administration really deserved it. That's one reason, and another reason, we need to reorganize this system, it's clear to everyone. Except for that classic division of penitentiary and prisons and now to exclude Turopolje and Pozega who don't really have a lot of problems, if I'm not wrong, in this entire system, it's clear that we have to make a different organization of the prison system. Well, it's convenient, you know, to say that we've tied the prisons to actually county courts and that doesn't need to be covered. It was done for practical reasons and long ago it was being dragged, and before 90 it was so and we continued with that system so still work. And where does the problem arise? Now that you look at the burden of individual prisons, you'll see a huge difference. Of course the courts find that convenient because of the measure of detention, but that's not the solution. We must indeed reduce the number of prisons, but what remains must be improved and the execution of that sentence up to six months. And it is also not necessary to say at all that today's transport of persons under arrest should not be a problem. I've turned to a subject that's too harsh to say in those few sentences what to do, but the fact is that we have to do something with that system. This kind of system organization, I'll only tell you one example. When a penitentiary was built in Leprechaun, it was built under the so-called Irish progressive system of execution. The four-phase thing. And that was then Europe's most modern system of execution of prison sentences. But you know what the problem is? It's been 100 and a few years since then. Such a system no longer meets the needs of today. When we even go back a little bit and we know which is the biggest, biggest penalty for such a type in the Republic of Croatia. What has been returned to the church and this rightly in the process of denationalisation remains clear that the capacities are too small, the needs too great, the organization does not meet the needs of today. The system at the Justice Department where the HSS Club shouldn't be, then that's where the problems actually lie. And all this stuff we're talking about is the consequences of the problem. Of course, I don't want to be in the skin of people who have to solve these problems, but the fact is that we have to do something systematic and organisational. The HSS Club will support this report no matter what, because that's proof of the situation, that's the sum of the facts, that is, the fact that we have today. No matter how much you invest in that system, it's never enough and that's how it's gonna be. But we have to do something about it. So, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this report, but we suggest that the government consider a different positioning of both the administration itself and the different organisation of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36497	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36498	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with the assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club supports and will support this report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2003/2004. A year. We believe in the club that this report, which was actually submitted by the Department of the Prison System, was given very objectively, very professionally and it can be an excellent one analysis and to all those who deal with the penological system and generally penology. Even those who send people to prison. However, here when we are discussing the Report we must imagine what our obligations are here as a legislative body and what we, in contrast to the executive authorities, must do to make this situation about the work of penitentiary, prison and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia as it is rightly pointed out by the Department of the Prison System itself is alarming. It is such that staff and the Department of Prison System itself, and based on the resources available that have been given to that system, will simply not be able to function anymore. So far, and all these years, so I'd say for 15 years he lived and worked that prison system with his staff very correctly and very professionally. However, how many limits of endurance and staff opportunities can compensate for the lack of material resources, increasing overcrowding and, on the other hand, the lack of own staff. So in this sense something must be done and we here should not just receive the report without concrete conclusions as it draws attention to, or suggests, the Committee on Justice. To commit the government to finding additional funds for the prison system. Today, God forbid any situation that could shake this system, which could shake and the safety of the Republic of Croatia, is just about to commit us to such behaviour. I think the government's behaviour is extremely irresponsible when the budget is specifically drawn up and when exactly for the prison system, as well as only the ministry as its spokesman, points its needs to the government, the government is not proposing sufficient resources. And now, after this report was received, the government only tasked the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance to find additional funds for self-government within two months. Well, that's not possible without the government or without its approval, especially when we know how the state budget was drawn up. Therefore, the only means that can be found now cannot be found in the Ministry of Justice, it is not possible to find them in the Ministry of Finance but in the government itself. From the reserve funds, I must point out that this was done during the coalition and that thanks to the intervention of these funds and also to this joint conclusion and commitment both in the Committee on Justice and at the plenary session itself, a lot has been done. In such a way were approved the funds where the circular one was completed... in Leprechaun where the modernized wing is five in Leprechaun, and we know that as the Republic of Croatia we have been sued just to violate the human rights of prisoners because they support prison sentences in inadequate conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the situation is alarming and I think we should react in this sense. Today, I say, God forbid the situation gets worse to some extent, to some hostage situations that are also unknown in our system, but given the profile of prisoners and any major convicts who commit crimes unmotivated, which are very dangerous, that's exactly what we are told. I would also like to say something that we are seriously considering and I don't know why this happened, because the Constitution does not prevent it, under the Constitution, forced labour is forbidden, but working in penitentiary facilities must be introduced as educational therapy rather than forced labour. After all, we also have as a college measure, a work for the common good. Well, no one thinks that such a norm is contrary to the Constitution where forced labour is forbidden. The situation is dramatic right in Leprechaun where the hardest prisoners refuse to work. It is true that even the penitentiary is not always available, or the question arises whether it would be in a situation concrete and present in the ability to provide for all and work, but precisely those most severe convicts who have been sentenced to a long term prison sentence are needed just as educational therapy. They walk down the hall with open cells and the question is, how long can this situation last? Especially in the absence of frames when there's only one prison guard standing on one lap. So I think that the situation is very serious, let us remember that during the coalition government, a reform of the prison system has really started, that we have passed the Law on the execution of the law, where there is indeed a good foundation for the leading people in prisons, that they are professional people, and that is what shows that it is good, but I am saying this very difficult financial situation says that the situation is particularly worrying and that it does not suffer further delays because it itself will not be solved can only get worse. Likewise, although the government had previously refused a policy of linear tightening of the law's penalties, we still see it in this five-year commitment plan and further reform of the criminal trial. The government, however, has committed itself to what it was, which represented the SDP on a linear increase in the rule of law, and thus obliges us here now and to our own government to take great care of it. We also need to know that she's changed with... The legal population to make her, it used to be alcoholics that now it's mostly drug addicts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This may be, I say, a second chance to consider this very sensitive system, to give recognition to those people who, in these difficult conditions, have remained at the height of their human professional mission and mission, but it would be irresponsible at this moment for us to part ways without an explicit conclusion, I suggest that the proposal tabled by the Committee on Justice, be bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to elect for this Ministry specifically for the Administration of the Prison System provide the necessary resources. And once again, I'd like to mention, perhaps here's the most picturesque one. During the coalition government, they were secured and the reconstruction of the rolling stock began. The truth is that when over 80 vehicles were purchased for the prison system, there was nothing left, it was said to be done in the following year. Unfortunately, however, no kuna for the prison system's rolling stock has been approved. You'll see when you're passing what case and when you're driving on our highway, if you see an old van that everyone can threaten, it's a van, it's exactly a line that's driven by a prison system, it's not allowed, it doesn't fit the opportunities or the dignity of a country, neither does it say those who work in the system or those who are concerned about the system, because the state once shut down the convicts against him didn't stop the country's obligations, they've come up new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36499	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36500	Thank you very much, Mr. President, namely Mrs. Antičević-Marinović, speaking about the prison system, she said that the government's behaviour is extremely irresponsible in view of the current Croatian government, which is an incorrect allegation and commending the coalition government. In fact, if her colleague Anticevic had said otherwise, saying to the coalition government, we would have agreed because she, as a minister, signed under the same service number and the same class as the one officer under the prison system, was successful and then failed under the same service number and same class, and so much for the government's irresponsible behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36501	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36502	The breach of the Rules of Procedure and in Article 209, you did not, you only commented and incorrectly, in fact, would be a correction of the exact allegations. I didn't say that the coalition government solved it all, but it started to solve it, and much remains unsettled. I only appeal here that this is not a matter of politicization but of doing something together for that prison system. And I'm telling you, compare just the funds that were then, how many people have been employed in that system since 2000, how many are now. Well, let's keep going, so at least let's get on with it slowly. And as for the specific example, I don't know anything about manual numbers and how it is, because I don't write manual numbers, but please, I know what it's about, it's about the case of the murder of the Youngsters and the one who let him past the decision of the administrative central system where it's said, in the management of the central system don't let go, that despite that provision he let go and that happened in the same year, dear fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36503	Comrade Antičević, you have claimed one thing that she has disputed through her statement by claiming that your claim is incorrect. Well, it is, but you can't judge it through the Rules of Procedure's Infringement Institute. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] She can, she, the representative can also find that something is incorrect, she thinks that you presented incorrectly with regard to the quality of the government's work. It's a matter of claim alleged correct, incorrect. And you, as an excellent lawyer, know that under 209 we only need to regulate the conditions for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Well, come on. Solve it through replicas, not through a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Oh, come on. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36504	Mr. President... This report has nothing to give away, it should certainly be accepted because it is properly written, accurate and clear. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was put together by probably the prison system administration, so it's through the ministry and it's coming here to the Parliament through the government. However, it points to at least four important issues. So there's a lack of space in closed-type penitentiary. How to handle it. Look, it can't be solved by this Parliament. We can't handle it through debates. That can't even be solved by the Department of the Prison System, it can be resolved by the government. If he wants to react urgently, then I don't know from some reserve funds if there are, if there's no first budget rebalance. And the first budget rebalance will show whether or not the government wants to solve it. It's a big problem. Watch the penitentiary should not be re-tracted as it is. The Minister of Justice announced, as part of amendments to the criminal law, the raising of the threshold for minimum prohibited penalties. Personally, I think you should do it and you'll probably get support here in the Parliament. But that means the prisoners will stay in prison for a long time. Which means that these insufficient capacities will be even more re-tracted. Therefore, if there is an increase in the minimum of impediment then conditions must be ensured, we need to place those people somewhere who are convicted. The government must answer this question in the rebalance of the budget how much money it means to invest and what it means to do urgently. It's an emergency. Secondly, what happens here is the lack of employees. There are also reasons why the doctor is missing and the guards are missing because there are too little salaries. You're listening to the work being done to prisoners is hard work. Well, it's not the same to work in a hospital general practice or work in a penitentiary as a doctor. Well, it's quite clear that you won't even find doctors who will work in penitentiary rooms if you don't raise your salary. That's understandable in itself. So you won't find any guards in those prisons unless you raise those wages. It can't be done again by the prison system administration. It can't be in her jurisdiction. It's government business. And if the government wants to solve this problem, it has to solve it urgently. So that we don't read this well-concerned report from year to year and what happens next to them. Nothing. We cry to each other that's the way it is. It can't stay that way. The third problem seen here is terrible conditions in Turopoly. For minors. It's a matter of money again. Listen, if these conditions are so disastrous, then we need to fix them. The penitentiary should be restored to get that furniture if the beds are so creepy if the condition of the walls is terribly fixed. Who's gonna fix it? A council? The government has to predict. We therefore expect concrete items on these three issues to be rebalanced in the budget. And one question is convenience. That's what Mrs. Byte just mentioned. Suitability, one of the benefits is getting out of the penitentiary. During the use of such an advantage, Srdjan Mladjan killed as many as two, three people. And now that it has been determined that the deputy there has been given a negative assessment by the minister, then this here is being apostrophe as the inconsistency of the minister. Because first she gave a positive one and then a negative one. I know she gave a negative grade if the man let the young man out. And yet not respecting the decision of the profession that she said don't let him out. And he goes out and kills three people. Well, the man who let him out deserved to be fired from the service. He gets a negative grade, so by himself, he understands he'll get a negative grade. And it's not inconsistencies. Be careful not to get a negative assessment that nothing happened to him, and then you should ask the question of both former ministers and the entire government, I'm sorry how you could allow it. How come you don't punish the man who let the prisoner out and then killed three more people on that freedom? Well, someone's got to answer for it. Well, things like that can't happen. Why. And not only so that justice may be done, but the citizens are insecure. Well, citizens need to be sure that whoever's behind bars that if he's dangerous, he'll stay behind bars. Well, they can't doubt if they're gonna let someone else's killer out tomorrow, so they're gonna kill five more people. Well, they can't doubt it. So if this happened that the former minister punished him or gave him a negative assessment, we just have to commend it. Just compliment and encourage this minister to now express such measures. To make the citizens feel safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36505	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Stazic got his grades and he probably doesn't know the law on the prison system that's why I'm correcting his incorrect allegations. By defending Mrs. Secretary, he said she needed to be fired from the service of the person we're talking about. Namely, this person has been released by a powerful verdict according to all the charges, and is not guilty of Croatian laws or Croatian society. And Ms. Minister here at the Croatian Parliament, on several occasions before the court and before the trial, declared the minister of justice in the Republic of Croatia responsible and guilty of claiming that the culprit had been found. And what we're talking about is that the same lady minister made the same order number the same day and the same class of two different decisions politically-oriented and motivated. But this isn't about the case now, it's about the prison system. I only note the credibility of the former coalition government and the minister of justice in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36507	Injury of the Rules of Procedure in which he is now injuring the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36508	You're violating the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, you're violating the Rules of Procedure because you don't use your powers. That a representative who obviously does not correct the incorrect quote but gives a replica, do not warn that he is using the wrong tile. If anyone wants to replicate, they've got a yellow tile to encourage. So let's point out the replica and not that using the wrong tile actually leads the discussion, replicating, under the correction of the wrong assumption. Use your powers they are not small I support you you are the President of the Parliament. Enter order into this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36509	Yeah. You see, I followed this debate very closely, especially when Mrs. Anticevic was talking about this one case. So when you were talking about this one case, and you argued in your debate, it was about the governor of the penalty in Slavonic Požega. You did not appoint him as neither Mrs. Anticevic nor Mrs. Byte, who was fired in a strict procedure and who, against whom the indictment was brought before the court. In both proceedings, and in the strict procedure he was legally released, and also in the criminal proceedings of any responsibility, any liability, any liability, or criminal responsibility, that he was responsible for the fact that, which the convict Mladjan went to, not on the loose, but on the outside, to the use of time outside of prison and committed that terrible murder. You said in your debate that such a person was to be fired by the minister. That's your claim. Representative Maria Byte argued that this was an incorrect allegation that it was an incorrect allegation and called for a judicial verdict. So she corrected your claim that by calling for a final verdict, that he needed to be fired by the warden of Požega Penalty. I don't see what I've done to the Rules of Procedure because representative Maria Byte rightly and initially corrected your incorrect claim to her. So I used my... Well, that it should have, so I know, so it wasn't debated I don't know who it was, but it was debated with a clear, precise person who wasn't just mentioned by name and last name. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If I had used my Rules of Procedure then, that I had used my strict Rules of Procedure when you applied for the abuse of Rules of Procedure, then I should have warned you that you had violated the Rules of Procedure by reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it was not about that. But let us let it go, and that Article 209, paragraph 1 simply states that a representative may report for paragraph 2 for breach of the Rules of Procedure and should specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure. Let's get this over with. Does State Secretary Snježana Bagic want a final review? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36510	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the debate, it seems to me that I can return to the beginning of my presentation. That's when I said it was good sometimes that there was a legal obligation to report on the state of the state system to the Parliament. And that's what this debate in Parliament has shown. It is good to draw attention to a particular system such as the case, the Zadar system, so that details can be discussed and broken down. And I thank those who say the report is correct. It is. Because there's no point in hiding anything or being able to. The numbers all speak for themselves. And I also think that here it also shows that despite both the spatial and the problem of the frame, the difficulty in the frame is that the state is still satisfactory. The situation, however, is the safety of the treatment is what cannot be alarming and thanking, the praise of the people who work in that system. Also, regardless of what the government has now concluded by considering this report and by ordering the two ministries to propose measures to the government to find financial resources, and that seems to be what I initially said for filling in... I have to say that over the past year, we can't be completely satisfied with the number so that the number of missing judicial officers is reduced from 207 to 176, and it's obtained when it comes to vehicles of 16 vehicles for the Zadar system of popularly called "marica". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's constantly working as a filler... It's also on the supply of equipment, but it's never enough, so this debate can help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36511	Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2003 and 2004. I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2003 and 2004 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? 108 for, 1 abstention and 1 against. Accepted conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Justice Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: it is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with its conclusion, make efforts to provide additional financial resources to the Department of Prison System of the Ministry of Justice. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 93 for, 10 abstentions and 4 against. Accepted conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36520	I thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the laws that I dare say is on the trail of the need that is recognised to introduce order and to protect more believers when it comes to ensuring demand for publishing rights. Because when we talk about securing property rights clearly, it's an insurance against a mortgage in a land book, and there's an eevidence there. I'm not going to talk about the state of the land books and how much work we still have to do on that arrangement. However, there was a lasting need and necessity, and this was often an objection that we did not have a single record, so a single register, a mobile register. So where we're going to sign up for publishing rights or insurance for demand on the move. And it hides behind this law of a long name. It is indisputable that the persons who are in debt will not only be in charge of their property but also on the movement even more often than the rights to establish such a new public register because of the lack of a public register. By what does this Law seem? In fact, this Law regulates the structure and content of this register, the register of judicial and public record insurance, the search of the credentials on movements and rights. Although not included in other public books, then the type, assumptions and effects of this entry and then the provisions of the procedural procedure which determine who is running those registers, what is the character of that register, how is the application for enrolment, which is possible legal means and so on? This Law proposes that the register be managed in a manner such as the public register in electronic form by the Financial Agency. Why? Because it has one network that will allow wherever the stock is entered on the movement and the provision of demand can be connected uniquely and visible to anyone of particular interest. Therefore, it seems to me that this makes an additional order in the field of hostage rights, in this case for the example of hostage rights on movement. Any discussions and remarks raised in the debate before the committees will be adopted, or considered, in order to contribute to the better quality and clarity of this text of the law and the establishment of a new register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-07-0.u36521	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and interrupting the session. Tomorrow, the Croatian Parliament will not be sitting for the burial of Holy Father Pope John II. Resumption 13 April at 9:30 with subject, point 8. Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004, Report on audits carried out for 2003 and the specific part from which the designation of official secret was removed. Thank you very much. Continuing 13th at 9:30. Proposal for a law on the register of court and public record insurance for the search of creditors on movable matters and rights, first reading, P.Z. No. 280. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the register of judicial and public record insurance for the search of creditors on mobile matters and rights is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 4 abstentions and 17 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
