ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38161	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I would like to ask you to ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, to come to the Croatian Parliament today and report on the results of the talks with Mrs. Carla del Ponte, the chief prosecutor of The Hague Court. Given the fact that it is already quite clear that unfortunately, its opinion has a decisive impact on the continuation, i.e. the launch of negotiations with the European Union, and especially after yesterday's action to catch Gotovina in the centre of Zagreb, we would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister to report to the Croatian Parliament, on his findings on this and on everything else that arises from this discussion with the chief Hague prosecutor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38162	Thank you very much. I'll call him. Let's move on. On behalf of the Management Board of the Foundation, President of the Management Board, Prof. Pero Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38163	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would briefly present to you the content of the Report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development for 2004, because this report contains what we did last year and what we are planning and what we are already doing in this year. First of all, I would like to point out that in the introduction of this report we have made a brief representation of the European foundations that are similar to our foundation, because the mission of our foundation, so the Croatian Foundation for Science is quite clear and precisely defined by the law which established the foundation and we have read the wish of the Croatian Parliament to just structure and form our foundation in the way that similar organisations in Europe are structured and formed, and therefore, in the introduction of our report, we have created a presentation of similar European foundations that have been a model for us and whose rules, system, organization, very thoroughly studied and built into what we have done for our national foundation. In addition, what seems to be very important to us, and is already defined in the Foundation Act and the name of the foundation itself, which is still in 2001 when the Croatian Parliament established, i.e. voted the Foundation Act, was a requirement for the closer integration of higher education and science, and we are pleased that the Croatian Assembly has already recognised the importance of connecting science and higher education because, in practice, in all relevant European documents that appeared in the last year, especially with the conclusions of Salzburg and the Ministerial Conference in Bergen, the role of the link between higher education and science and insists that science is in no way organised and not connected with the system of higher education. In 2004, we established the organisational structure of the National Foundation. The organisational structure is shown in the report. In essence, the foundation is structured as according to the principles of the agency, which means that the structure guarantees flexibility and conversion of projects at relatively low costs. Also, in 2004, we defined the strategic plan and strategic direction of development of the National Foundation for the next four years, defined strategic values and identified, or sought to focus seven strategic directions. These are the inflows of brains, support for higher education reforms precisely following the Foundation's mission and what is now happening in the formation of a European space of higher education and European research space, and we have defined five strategic areas in which the foundation should invest in the next four-year period. These are information and communication technologies, biotechnology, new materials, new manufacturing processes, environmental protection and social cultural transition from industrial society to knowledge society. We tried these priorities, of course, on the basis of the documents that we had at our disposal, above all the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Declaration, the Declaration of Knowledge, the strategy of the previous Government of Croatia for the 21st century and recommendations, 55 recommendations of the National Council for Competitiveness. Clearly, we may have been focusing too wide. However, we did not have another stop point except for those documents that were available to us. What is important also the Governing Board has decided that it will not fund and allocate funds outside the programme. Therefore, only funds will be allocated through defined programmes, with the fact that, of course, the Management Board should define programmes based on the strategic plan and at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Parliament. Through the Foundation programmes, we want to highlight and encourage the fundamental strategic values that we have defined, which are people, ideas, cooperation and excellence, by paying particular attention to just excellence. So, developing a system through which we will be able to identify and, of course, stimulate excellence, and it seems to us that we have done a good job here, and that is the evaluation process that we have established which is very competitive and which we have tried to make as objective and as transparent as possible. This evaluation process, therefore the way in which the projects were evaluated, was firstly done according to the model and evaluation procedures carried out by the European Commission and the European Foundation for Science and Finnish Academy, which actually works as a foundation. We believe that the introduction of such an evaluation process is the introduction of European standards in the process of evaluation of scientific projects and scientific research, and we hope that such evaluation procedures will begin to be applied both in the evaluation and other projects, and not only projects that finance and evaluate the Foundation but also in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but also in all other projects. In addition to assessing the projects and programmes at the very beginning, at the beginning of the evaluation we felt that one major deficit in our project monitoring system was precisely monitoring the implementation of the projects. That's why we built a system of checkpoints and millilocks just to keep track of those projects that have been reported to those checkpoints and that timeline that it's reported, because we want the projects to be as objective and as precisely realised as possible. In 2004, we actually worked out and practiced this evaluation process, and we applied it to the first programmes that we had written in 2004. In 2004, we set out programmes, six programmes from, three from the programme group to support higher education reform because we thought that just the reform of higher education and the integration of higher education is crucial for the next step in the development of science and in Croatia. So we set up three programs. One with the aim of supporting the construction of doctoral studies. Because the doctoral studies we started to set up and make this year according to the Bologna Process and according to the recommendations of Salzburg and Bergen Ministerial Conference are, according to our assessment, a critical point for further development and higher education and science in Croatia. That is why we wanted to support those institutions that are willing to establish quality doctoral studies and that is in line with European standards. 18 institutions reported on the programme. Of those 18 institutions in the process, in the evaluation process met the standards required by the Foundation of 5 institutions, we further asked 4 institutions to amend the programme and of those 4 institutions we decided to finance in, the two programmes we decided to finance in full, two partially. So of the 18 institutions reported, we accepted for the financing of 9 institutions, which means that that standard of excellence and competence was satisfied in the evaluation process. In addition to doctoral studies, we have set up a programme to encourage institutions to establish a quality assurance system. First of all, the quality assurance system for higher education and because it is a key point in higher education reform in Croatia. So it is not enough to just change the structure and set up new study programmes, but it is necessary to guarantee the quality of the study programmes, and among other things it is our international obligation. Those tenders are open. And of course our goal is to promote good practices and good experiences that Croatian higher education institutions will install in a quality assurance system. In addition, we have opened a tender for joint studies, because we believe that quality can be promoted in higher education through pooled studies, thus pooled studies and joint diplomas. And of course, we especially expect joint doctoral studies which will be established by Croatian universities with universities abroad, above all with universities in neighbouring countries, which will be held together and will end with a common degree. Regardless of what usually looks like a very nice and good idea, this idea comes across a whole series of obstacles to realisation and not only in Europe, but in all of Europe, and that is why we have decided those institutions that want to catch up with this job and who want to find solutions to serve other institutions as role models. In addition to these three programmes, we have set up three programmes that are supported by so-called support. "brain inflow" programs, which are "guest", "senior" and "post- dock" programs with a basic goal of attracting prominent researchers in Croatia who have an independent research career to come to Croatian institutions together with Croatian colleagues to conduct research. Those programs are open. They are in progress and the next evaluation process, i.e. the next deadline for the application is the end of June this year. These programmes are presented at the congress of Croatian scientists from abroad and the diaspora, and we expect that these programmes will make it possible to arrive, primarily focused on our Croatian scientists working abroad, their arrival at Croatian universities and Croatian institutions to essentially increase the overall research capacity of Croatian institutions. Of course, these programmes also go as support for the government's or ministry's initiatives through a programme of 400 new jobs where a good part of our scientists from abroad are expected to return to Croatian universities and Croatian institutes. As regards the financial operations of the trust, the financial operations are also detailed in the report. In short, I would like to inform you that in the last year a little more than 9 million kuna was paid from the budget and that the interest revenue was slightly more than 5 million kuna. The total assets of the foundation amount to around 103 million kuna. Of which is the basic property, therefore the property that is not to be reduced and registered in the trust book is about a little over 49 million kuna. The foundation programme, a doctoral study programme that we completed in January, so the first programme was primarily used to train and spy on the evaluation process but also served as a basis for creating standards and recommendations on how to organise doctoral studies at Croatian universities. And in essence, the programme was the basis for recommendations from a rectorial assembly now adopted by the National Council for the organisation of doctoral studies at Croatian universities, which are expected to be a very extensive reform. We are pleased that these recommendations and objectives defined in the Foundation Programme are fully in line with the recommendations and conclusions of the conference on doctoral studies held in Salzburg and the Ministerial Conference in Bergen, which took place only two weeks ago. In 2005, of course, we continue to discuss the entire evaluation process. The 2005 plan is also shown in the report. I'd just point out two key things, and that's the further establishment of the foundation program. The programs that have been prepared and from which we expect the call are primarily re-focused on support, but now the realization of doctoral studies through the system of scholarships for PhDs, through the system of scholarships for employees. A programme that will support national courses and national courses for PhDs precisely to concentrate knowledge and concentrate resources not to organise every university or every university highly specialized courses but to offer these courses to all PhDs in Croatia. We have also prepared and designed a programme that we have been working on calling a partnership with non-profit sources of funding, and a fundamental goal in fundamental research, and our main goal is to get budgetary sources through, of course, industry and the private sector to invest in fundamental research at Croatian institutions and Croatian universities, and that is clear with the aim of knowing that fundamental research does not serve only for the mere academic reproduction, so to create new university professors rather than primarily to serve for the education of people and for the needs of the economy and industry. These programmes that we have prepared and that you have in detail in the 2004 National Foundations report are ready to call and we expect to call them very quickly. These programmes could be called by general programmes which are essentially for the establishment of research infrastructure, of course, in that segment relating to people, ideas and cooperation and excellence. Further programmes that we should and can call out must be research programmes that focus on research strategic areas. So high-competitive programmes, where there will be a great competition, where intensive international co-operation will exist. In addition to the programme of activity in 2005 I would like to highlight our activity at the internationalisation of the National Foundation for Science. Together with the Minister of Science and Education and Sports, we sent a letter to the presidents of similar European foundations with the aim of forming an international council of foundations for the presidents of the Irish Foundation, the presidents of the Swiss Foundation, the presidents of the Swedish Foundation, the German Foundation and the Finnish Academy which basically functions as a foundation. To this day, we have received a response of three or four, so that Mr. William Hari, President of the Irish Foundation, Mr. Ramo Vajrinen, President of the Finnish Academy and Mr. Ludwig Vinaker, the president of the German DFG, agreed to be in the international council of the foundation and Mrs. Alice Rajevski Director for South and Eastern Europe will arrive in Croatia at 9 months to see how the German DFG can be involved and help develop the Croatian National Foundation. We also set out to form a national foundation council according to strategic areas with seven groups, with each group having two representatives from Croatia, one representative from the Croatian diaspora and two representatives from abroad. They also replied from the Swiss Foundation where their president is asking for further clarifications to see if they can fit in and how they can join our mission and how they can help us and we expect the fourth member of the international council to be president of the Swiss Science Foundation. These foundations are shown to you in the opening section and you can see the strength of these foundations and how much money these foundations are essentially deploying for research. We believe that we will also have a significant impact on the profiling of Croatia's scientific policy, which finally the Parliament has already begun to do by adopting the Foundation Act, but also to enable the integration of the Croatian system of science and Croatian higher education into the European space of higher education, into the European Research Area. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38164	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur want a committee? Rapporteur of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honored Representative Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38165	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Foundation, the Ministry, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 submitted to you by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 13th session held on 18 May 2005 a report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, which was in accordance with the provisions of Article 17(3) of the Croatian Parliament. Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the Management Board of the Foundation by Act of 20 April 2005. The Committee members agreed in their assessment that the 2004 National Science Foundation Report in a systematic, reviewed and convincing manner showed the institution's growth in all its visions. This relates primarily to the function for which the National Foundation is founded, i.e. to the financing and evaluation of the implementation of individual projects, but to the organisation-management side, which is of particular importance to co-operation with the prominent European foundations. At the same time, the financial chief's growth in the past year has lost at the pre-planned pace of progress, and the Committee members express confidence that a more favourable movement reached a year earlier, or in 2003, at the very least. The debate has shown that the administrative bodies of the foundation in collaboration with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are gradually turning towards other possible co-workers so that the state budget does not remain the only source of income and that through these forms of cooperation and stronger economic entities of their association they gain for joint investments in fundamental research. Following the discussion of the members of the Committee, a representative of the rapporteurs of the report and other invited participants was unanimously delivered the following conclusion: The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38166	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, Secretary of State, Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow a few words, noting that you have a written statement from the Government on how it accepts the annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for the past year. I would like to point out that you still have an extremely good cooperation of the Ministry and the Management Board of the Foundation on the table. The excellence spoken of by the chairman of the board of directors is a field, it is a space and good I could say really very good co-operation between the ministry and the board of directors. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, as we know, has other types and other levels of its activities, but excellence is the type and the level of action in which or which is largely covered by exactly collaboration with the foundation. I would like to highlight this as a pledge of good hope for our expectations that in the coming year this report, which we consider positive, will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38168	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38169	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Management Board of the Foundation, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club fully accepts this Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. We accept it for two basic reasons. The report is in a formal sense complete. It is abundantly detailed in what the Foundation has done in the past year as well as in the basic guidelines for next year. On the other hand, what is offered in the contents of the Foundation's work is quite acceptable to us in the SDP and we believe that it is fully in line with the fundamental purpose of the Foundation that we established several years ago when we founded the Foundation itself. I do not think it is important to point out once again that the Foundation is founded on a fundamental purpose to support the final transformation of Croatian society from some industrial, or post-industrial society into a knowledge society, into a society based on a competitive economy that must once again find its basis and its basis for progress in scientific and technological projects themselves. In this sense, the Foundation which defined its purpose and based its core action on focused funding for excellent and creative individuals. In that regard, these excellent and competitive projects seem to be fully correspondence with the fundamental will with which we have established the Foundation itself. After a rather extensive and detailed opening presentation by the Reporter himself, we find it important to point out only 3 things. First, we are pleased that for the first time in this Report, a review of the work of foreign foundations is given which can be compared in some way to this Croatian foundation and we consider it positive that a great similarity is seen especially in that part of the visibility of the programmes themselves, in complementarity to the purpose of our and European foundations. But also what we have to notice is that there is one big and significant difference. This is the difference in funds, the money available by foreign foundations and the Croatian foundation. Unlike these foreign foundations that truly have great resources, ours seems to be just a small drop in everything that European foundations have. It is clear to us that the Croatian Foundation cannot in this sense be equal and equal with these European foundations, but we think that we need to take a slow step and even more than perhaps more developed European countries, increase resources and invest in these projects. Because without them, I think we're gonna have a hard time making progress. In that sense, I think that it is not good and that we did not do well as the Croatian Parliament when we adopted the 2005 Budget, and then in 2004, when we reduced resources for the National Foundation, that is, this budget grant. And not for a little while, but for a couple of times. Secondly, as for the Foundation's own programmes, we estimate in the SDP that they are well-defined, that they are well-defined, that the programmes are well-developed. In particular, it seems to us that support for higher education reform programmes, primary doctoral and post-doctoral studies can have a significant impact on the double. First, the development of specific doctoral programs, on the other hand being one indication and all in achieving a certain criterion of excellence. We would like the programme "braingain", or the inflow of brains to truly achieve its purpose as defined by the programme itself. However, the first data we have on this program suggests that it may not be as simple and as effective as the programme itself envisaged. And in that sense, and to support our special program. Third, we find it important to point out one significant strategic shift made by this Foundation. By establishing international licences, i.e. by defining evaluation procedures for the evaluation of projects at a truly high level. This is particularly important for small societies, for small scientific communities such as Croatia where scientists are mostly known and I think it is really one, one good process that they will have, which will achieve their purpose that only those projects that can really fall under the mark of excellence will contribute to the development of evaluation culture in Croatia itself, so that those projects that are financed through the Ministry of Science are slightly removed from the often social criteria and really go towards those who have a certain applicable character. Furthermore, we are pleased that the work of the Foundation, as shown in this Report, has managed to overcome a possible difficulty that is very often involved in trusts and particularly various institutions and associations dealing with science. And that's to be rigid, to be slow, not to meet the needs of society. We are pleased that this Foundation is the very way the Foundation works in which it is placed specifically related to the tender for funding projects, set up more flexible. What competitions go in cycles that are shorter than they are annually, and that seems to us to be a good decision of the Management Board of the Foundation. And finally, Professor Lucin, speaking on behalf of the promoter here, did not mention it, but it was written in the final review of this report. It is that indeed the Foundation needs stronger and stronger support from the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government in achieving their projects. I think that this appeal comes for the second or third time by the Foundation here at the Croatian Parliament and I think that, even as representatives and advocates, we really need to take this seriously. And that when we are going to make a budget, if we want to extend the Foundation's programmes and I think they need to expand, we will increase the Fund's funds, but also that by amending some of the other laws of the primary Law on profit tax and some income tax and other tax regulations, we will allow a good part of the Foundation's programme to be financed from non-financial funds and that, in this way, even moreover, only the economy may be linked to scientific projects. Which is ultimately the key objective of the Foundation's work itself, that all those research done in science are not, therefore, for the purposes of academic debates rather than having a quality application in the economy. And finally, once again, I want to point out that, here, this second report shows that we were not wrong when we formed the Foundation a few years ago. But if we were to do the same here in the Croatian Parliament, we might try a little bit harder to succeed with our resources, with our efforts to monitor the progressiveness that the Foundation offers us. Because I don't think we should leave the Foundation alone for their purpose, because of their influence on the future of society. In this respect, support and the SDP Club work of the Management Board of the Foundation and the Foundation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38170	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38171	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Academy and the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me refer on behalf of the IDS Club, therefore, to the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. At first, we can say that we at the IDS, and we at the IMF, therefore, support this Report, express satisfaction with the work of the very foundations and programs that it fulfils. NO, we are not satisfied with the overall attitude towards science, higher education and technological development that we read from different data, the relations of the Republic of Croatia to this particular segment of our lives. This is what different data tell us, for example, in the 2004 budget for the Ministry of Science and Education, 8.26 billion kunas were separated from that, 2.7 billion kunas were only separate, one small part for that particular segment, for higher education, science and technological development. What this specifically means is that for higher education and science, only more than 4.5% of gross social product or previous years have been separated realistically, and in the discussions we pointed out that this increase is necessary at least 17% in order to catch up with those countries that we want to join in the near future. Therefore, more investment in science and education tells us about the number of highly educated people in the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, therefore, the data tell us that the situation is three times worse than in the countries of the European Union and it is significantly worse than the situation in the vast majority of transition countries, namely the Republic of Croatia is only around 7% with high or higher expertise, while the European Union average 20%, Finland, Ireland, of course, bounces 35%, ahead of us and Hungary with 15% of the highly educated population. So, with this 7%, we can't possibly be competitive and insist on better and faster development. So the situation warns us about the Croatian Academy of Arts and Sciences yesterday we discussed the same thing, we discussed its elaborate, about the declaration of knowledge and I think it is necessary to read it here, so this first sentence from that declaration. Therefore, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts considers its duty to ring the alarm, because of the situation in which Croatian society is in view of the knowledge and its application in development and to point to perspectives. So these are some data that tells us that all together and we here in the Parliament, we must take seriously the situation so responsibility, and all together to make the conditions for science and education to develop as quickly as possible in order to get into the knowledge society. As far as this report itself is concerned, this report could also be said in the expanse of the declared objectives and possibilities, of course, that this, the work of this foundation, is largely limited or determined by the revenues it has. So let me repeat that the revenues from the 2004 budget were 9 million, 250 thousand kuna, that the revenues for 2005 in the current budget were slightly higher, which was 10 thousand kuna, and that, for example, when the foundation was founded in 2002, that 52 million kuna was foreseen in the budget, that in 2003 the foundation received 34 million kuna. As an illustration of perhaps a different relationship with such types of foundation, it can serve us information that an Austrian Science Fund had a 106m-euro fund in 2004, of course that we cannot compare with a strong Austria, but one Austria that has a very developed science, and highly developed companies that are also developing different scientific projects, invest proportionally much more than we are investing and how much we could invest and could therefore invest. These 9 million and 250 thousand kunas might be enough to redistribute it into some old account, and let's remember 10 years ago here in the Parliament it was said that a kilo of brain is worth about 2 German stamps, well those times have passed, we all know together that investment in one expert, investment in one scientist is costing a lot of money, but also that money can very well be returned if this expert is used in the right way, if his patents, innovations, etc., it can be invested in quite a return. So these investments, the amount of these investments in this trust and in education alone, are in some way in direct contrast with the declared objectives of the foundation itself. The report itself discusses a mission, some higher goals, of demanding targets that are therefore in contrast with the means it is available, so let me read these two basic objectives that the foundation has or should have under the law. Therefore, according to the law of the foundation, it is established with the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development of the Republic of Croatia with a fundamental goal of ensuring economic development and promoting employment. The Foundation shall provide support for scientific, highly educated and technological programmes and projects, as well as for the promotion of international cooperation in the field of higher education. Support also includes assistance in the realisation of scientific programmes of specific interests in the field of fundamental, applied and development research. In particular, the Fund funds higher education programmes that will result in innovations and patents and higher education programmes for science and technological development, assigns scholarships to talented students, graduates and after graduates. Especially young, prominent scientists and experts in the economy and scientific and higher school institutions of the Republic of Croatia. With this budget, that's not possible. We also know that this is a trust, therefore, an institution that should pool funds not only from the budget, but from the economy, from the donations, etc., unfortunately to our economy too much we cannot count on, we know what the situation is, that too much cannot be expected of them, because only the economy is also very little investing in its economic, development, innovative projects. We have data that only half of Croatian companies have some kind of research activity, only half no more. All 32% succeed in realising these innovations, with the most successful companies in the energy and chemical sectors the richest ones, so we cannot count on the economy alone while the experiences from Europe and the world tell us that just innovation is the most developed in economic companies and that investment in large economic operators in the world means that the funds are far greater in everything Croatia invests in its overall science and education. What we would like to finally warn, therefore, as a regional party, that only once in this report mentions some form of regional action. The section on science, the environment and state development mentions that thematic priorities need to be identified through the construction of national and regional sustainable development strategies. In our view, therefore, this regional dimension should be included in the overall project, as Croatia can therefore go forward and in an economic, scientific sense if potentials are exploited throughout its territory and territory. Therefore, in addition to these remarks, the IDS Club supports this report with the hope that we will all take responsibility together, understand the seriousness of the situation and already show this to the adoption of the 2006 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38172	Thank you. HDZ club respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38173	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development The Board of Foundations has submitted an annual report on its work for the period 1 January-31. December 2004. The report we received this year is significantly more extensive by its content, by its contribution, by the number of pages. But I'd say next. On almost a hundred pages with contributions that are mainly general information about what other foundations in the world are doing, about how the foundation is structured, about what the institution's strategic objectives are. What deserves our special attention is the real result of the foundation and it as an effort of such an important institution, one such important organization unfortunately comes down to just a few pages, perhaps just one page, and I'll talk about it a little bit more. Why there are no results we would like to talk about exclusively when the annual report is submitted there are several reasons. The results can't be generated so quickly, they're gone today, they're not there yet, but we can hope that we will have the right results in the near future. So important organisations, such important institutions require time but also require a wise, smart strategy both with less or less, the resources that exist are very limited, to achieve results that can be recognizable, which can be a model, a prototype how to function, how to improve not only the work of the foundation but how to improve the work of this extremely important segment of Croatian society. A few words about what you declared in the introduction of your strategic plan. I don't think it's too bad to stress and repeat. The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development was founded by the Croatian Parliament. At a parliamentary session on 21 December 2001 with the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia with a fundamental goal of ensuring and that is why I point out this and what I want to say more about. With a fundamental objective of ensuring economic development and fostering employment. This is an extremely important and valuable goal because ultimately science is more or less in all countries if it works well then only works for the only reason because it makes a significant contribution to the economic potential of a particular country, economic competitiveness, companies and the promotion of employment, especially those that represent the most qualitatively educated part of society. And this is an important goal that we have just said a few words about but I think it deserves a more serious debate and all our efforts to make this fundamental goal truly in the future work of this important institution to be fully affirmed. But it's much easier to say, it's much easier to write than it's easy to do, and I'll say a little bit more about it later. The vision and objectives of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development are defined in your strategic plan, and I will quote some parts and comment again. Investment in people, ideas and promoting cooperation by promoting excellence. I think what you emphasized about excellence is very important, it deserves special attention because it is better to work a little but quality in the right way with the right results and with the right contribution in order to affirm the project of foundation and overall science in the Republic of Croatia. That element and that segment you have it, I would say strongly and sufficiently, pointed out not only in your report but also in the organisational structure I think it deserves special attention. Furthermore, the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development helps transform Croatian society. That sounds so nice today. It helps transform Croatian society into a knowledge society, develop a world-renowned scientific research and knowledge-based economy. However, we are still very far from these goals, and we need to concentrate on those results that affirm this goal and which show that in the work of the foundation, not only in the work of the foundation, we were talking about the Croatian Academy of Science and Art yesterday, we are able to make a contribution in this regard. The Foundation is established with the purpose of promoting science with a fundamental goal, here again from your report sufficiently strongly highlighted in materials but not sufficiently highlighted in today's report. And that is why I particularly point out, with a fundamental goal of ensuring economic development and promoting employment, but we are talking about concrete employment. Yesterday we heard on television one piece of information that 300 thousand are, it doesn't matter whether it is true, the unemployed 20% of young people, and among them there are certainly not a small number of those who are highly educated and who are looking for a real challenge in order to affirm themselves precisely in this context of hiring the most educated, the most capable I will say in the Croatian economy, its competitiveness. The development depends primarily on talent, ideas and entrepreneurial energy of exceptional individuals. That is true, but all this depends on the circumstances and contexts in which this individual lives. If these circumstances are unfortunately not satisfactory in terms of scientific challenge, in terms of its development perspective and further improvement, then what we do not want is happening. Young people are looking for a real challenge, especially the best ones, and they're going out. Of course, you've defined your goals and your brain flow project. It is a good goal, an acceptable goal, but it cannot be achieved unless circumstances and conditions are created in which these young people can really function by affirming themselves as scientists, affirming themselves on projects that have their real use, economic value. Finally, it is seen on the market, not only the knowledge market but also the competitiveness of Croatian companies on the world market. Unfortunately, there are few of them there, I'd say worrying, maybe less and less. Here, a few words about the concrete results that should focus our attention and are related, unfortunately, to these three segments, science, higher education and technological development, exclusively to the contributions you have made in support of higher education reform. And that part of the report is given on page 20, deserves a certain comment. It is a concrete result that points to the fact that the system still works and is running, almost from a dead end because last year we did not have any concrete results of the report. The national Science Compensation has allocated a total of 6 million kuna to support higher education reform programmes. It is particularly important, I think you have seen this very well, it is the development of post-graduate, especially doctoral studies because Croatia loses its pace not at the quality of its undergraduate education but at the quality of its postgraduate education, especially that of the multidisciplinary, and especially of the one targeted by projects that can affirm and science in the function of economic development. Here are a few words, unfortunately from, I would say no small funds, I agree that 100 million kunas are really no means but to use the funds in accordance with the set goals by ensuring excellence, you will see that these are huge funds. I unfortunately remember that I was once in a situation when I led a military-... The defense ministry's advice that we only had a few million and when we wanted to spend those few million in accordance with functionality, practicality and excellence then we saw that little, unfortunately, we could get. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You gave financial resources to certain institutions and here on the table, in Table 4, projects were accepted for a third cycle programme... Study of Medical Faculty University of Split, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Rijeka and that is very good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd be very happy to have seen some other colleges that really have to and should take a step in the quality of their postgraduate is especially doctoral studies. I'll say something else that I think is important. How does the foundation work in practice? You call the competitions, you define the procedures, and that's what I would say clearly and clearly. However, I also think that the foundation should be much more flexible and efficient when projects and programmes that have their distinctive quality, functionality and through which the foundation can be affirmed as a partner. I will point out one project, and I was surprised when my younger colleagues told me that the foundation could not participate in one of these very interesting and significant multidisciplinary projects related to new methods and new technologies in the treatment of post-traumatic war syndrome and one of the world's most respected institutions is involved in this project. From the American hospital Walterid, the best American universities in Israel, Norway, France, Germany, etc. And this set of top quality scientists is meeting next week in Dubrovnik for their scientific advice on whose quality, whose functionality, whose excellence was recognized and then scientific advice. So if NATO's scientific advice with a strict, multi-member, told the international commission that it was an important project, it was not small, then it's really surprising that the Republic of Croatia does not find interest through its institutions and does not establish a partnership relationship because I would say as is important to this project, it seems to me that it would be very important for the affirmation of the foundation that it is present at this meeting because of its and scientific rating but also because of its functionality as well as the fact that this scientific set is only part of a broader project which will be very soon supported and the financial American Congress. This partnership requires more flexibility and I would say faster forms of response than those usual, standard competitions. And here, in the end, just a few words about the property of the foundation. Payments made by the budget of 9 million 250 thousand kuna. They are not large funds but we have seen in practical work when they want to spend quality and functional financial resources then it is neither simple nor easy. The Foundation was wise and in its financial business provided interest income during the year 2004 of 5 million kuna. Its total assets of 103 million kuna and I would say given the funds spent and given the possibility that these assets are really affirmed are not small. And I conclude that the HDZ Club supported, supported the work of the Science Foundation with the conclusion that significant steps were made over the past year, results in terms of improving the quality of higher education, especially postgraduate, doctoral studies but that they were not done particularly in the segment of the technological development of the Republic of Croatia. And we believe that next year in your report we will see the first recognizable results in that segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38174	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38175	Dear Mr. Vice-President, the distinguished colleague said that the number of unemployed in Croatia at this time is about 300 thousand, is the exact number according to the Croatian Employment Service 321 thousand, but the actual number is also higher because we know how and how the records are kept. It is also an incorrect allegation that in terms of youth employment more can make a foundation, far more can the government only make it possible for officials to appoint young people in supervisory committees who will do it far better than in a way that even the laws of physics disturb. That at the same time they're 10 committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38176	Thank you. We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38177	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representative probably didn't listen to what I said, I said the following, yesterday on the diary there was information that he was in Croatia
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38178	But it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a correction of correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38179	And Article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38180	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38181	And look, let me get this straight, I told you the information I quoted. That's one thing. The second thing, I said about hiring those young education students, I didn't generally talk about employment, I talked about hiring people who can affirm Croatian science, who can contribute with their own contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38182	So it's not a broken Rules of Procedure, it's a correction. So here, O.K., it wasn't, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38183	Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the Foundation and the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I'm very glad that all the clubs that have come forward so far about this report support it which is very good. And Club HSN, PGS will do the same because after 10 years of bile discussions on the position of science and higher education we must be honest and say that in practice very little has happened so far at least for the better. We've all always talked about the need for greater investment, we've all talked about the need to reform the system of science and higher education, and unfortunately so far, relatively little has been done. Especially clearly in terms of achieving greater efficiency in these systems and in science and education. What I would like to say here and I would even say to simplify the course of this debate is a few examples in us, but also in the world of this matter. So I started working as a scientific novel in 1978, and somehow at that time many European countries, Western European countries, were in a position where we were about today as far as this matter is concerned. And I will never forget what happened in Italy those years. It was then found in Italy that a very brave and very determined science minister who saw the ineffectiveness of their system was a huge number of scientific projects that served nothing but to clearly help the financial status of their leaders, nothing else. Their applicability is absolutely unusable in most cases. The minister courageously when he sat down in his chair said, "In a month, the current way of financing projects ends. I'm asking all Italian scientists to re-write my applications. Let them write that application in Italian and English." First time 30 years ago. What did he do with those reports? He sent them to the review, but beyond the Italian borders. To get a quality review, to get a top-of-the-line, world review. He shut down no less than 70% of Italian projects overnight. And now he's poured the money over to those who got a high-quality positive review. They were swimming in abundance. They received recruits, and I don't have to tell you that 5 to 10 years later, Italy's largest economic growth occurred in the country's recent history. That's what we should do about it. And this foundation is the first light in the tunnel in that direction. And that's why I'm glad we're all thinking positively about this attempt. Somehow at the same time, I was working with a French group and suddenly a colleague in France tells me that he no longer has the means to communicate and I ask him why you don't have it. He says: Well, you know what, we do biomedicine, and our minister and our government each, every time a new government comes, it decides the clear framework of a strategy for the development of a great French state. Very clear. Every minister must respect that stragegia and must support it with his activities. And what did the Minister of Science do in 1981 in France? He said, "I will primarily finance colleagues who will deal with fibrooptic fibers," and we know what they mean today. "which will deal with semiconductors," and we know what they mean today. "which will deal with genetic engineering," and we know what genetic engineering means today. "They will swim in an abundance of money." And he did it. All the problems were solved by their scientists to support the development of the French economy with these researches. All other studies were in the second or third group regarding the amount of money they had available. So again bravely, resolutely and clearly. In 15 years, no government has had the courage to say what development strategy is? These were guidelines not strategy. A complete system of education should be based on this strategy. Registration policy, software policy. A pillar of science and technology had to be placed on that. That's what they do to everyone but us. Why can't we do that? I don't know. But together we have to find a way out. We need to find a solution. I spoke quite extensively yesterday about the shortcomings in our work regarding the evaluation of certain reports on the example of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts report. That's why I'm not going to repeat everything I said back then. Perhaps just to say that as a country, a small country, a country that does not have a lot of financial resources must stop supporting parallel systems, it must stop supporting unrelated systems, it must stop supporting systems that are not in the function of the development of the Croatian state. We have to stop this. We don't have any money. We can't help it. I argue that it is better even to have colleagues and therefore I always disappoint that no government ever sends us on our benches a proposal for a development strategy. It's better to have a worse strategy than no strategy. It's better to have less coordination than no coordination. It's better to have a weaker organization than no organization. And here I see a really great need for our minister who doesn't have any associates today, our Assembly Committee responsible for this matter, the Foundation, the Rector's Choir, the HAZU, the Chamber of Commerce, at least two to three times a year together, and for the arrangements in which we are going, which we have achieved, which we haven't achieved and corrected from the moon to the march of our country and the entire system. I would not be much longer than really here in front of the PGS Club, I would like to say that we will support this report, but we hope that there will soon be much more quality coordination between all those entities who are compulsory to cooperate here, because otherwise these efforts of the Foundation and the Management Board of the Foundation if the system is hanging in the air, if it does not connect with the other systems will not clearly achieve its full impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38184	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Luka Roic please. ... On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Rožić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of today's meeting, the HSP Club asked the President of the Parliament to call on the Prime Minister to submit a report or information to the Croatian Parliament on the course of talks with the chief Hague prosecutor and on the results of the talks. Since we have no reason to doubt that the President of the Parliament has not done what he has promised, and he said he will call on the Prime Minister I ask you to let us know if this has been done and what are the chances that the Croatian Parliament will receive some information from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38186	The President of the Parliament is probably in touch right now so I don't know the result of that contact, and as soon as we find out, we'll let the Parliament know. Here we are on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Management Board, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HSS Club also discussed the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. The awareness of the need to develop national technology and international technological cooperation despite the facts that suggest it is still not at the level that guarantees change. The alarming fact is Croatia's technological lagging behind the developed world. It seems that neither the political nor the general public attaches any importance to it. And the direct consequence of technological lagging is the ineffectiveness of the economy with all its consequences. That this is also the case with the fact that the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the National Declaration of Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia from December 2001 to June 2004. So the National Foundation Act was passed in December 2001. May we allow such slowness, knowing that the foundation's fundamental objective is to ensure economic development and incentives for employment, i.e. transfer of science itself to the economy. We are all sure to agree that lagging behind and slow is a very big problem and can have fatal consequences on what is costing and doing so. As an institution, the Croatian mother expressed her view on the importance of technological development by holding a founding assembly of the Department of National Technology in 2.6.2004, and it is precisely national technology that has to respond that our wealth in the Croatian state is abundant in a safe and harmless way to convert it into products. How, for example, the rural economy, along with technological acceptance, will perform the transformation of goods into wealth. Will by sowing genetically modified organisms turn the treasure into wealth. I remind you that the Law on genetically modified organisms was passed on the 20th of 2005. This did not avoid the process of financial and technical globalisation. As the Report of the National Science Foundation for 2004 states, we can hope that everything will speed up, that conditions are created for focused funding of excellent and creative individuals, and excellent and competitive scientific and research programmes. Evaluation procedures in which less than 30% of projects are accepted guaranteeing the quality of the report, the National Science Charge, and can only turn to the best, willing to compete. Significant emphasis on the strategic plan of the National Science Declaration in 2004, 2008 was primarily on the transformation of industrial society into a knowledge society, the development of a competitive knowledge-based economy, the creation of a clear concept of reform, science and higher education, greater investment in research and permissive social environment, increasing the number of young people who want to deal with science, innovation, the level of education of a working-active population. It is known to be low, there are no appropriate personnel, the price of the exchange is too high. The recommendations of the National Competitiveness Council form the basis of a strategic plan. The need for diverse approaches, financial scientific research, funding of scientific and research activities. Scientists should be able to conduct fundamental research, but provided that what they do is top-notch and recognized in the world scientific community. The National Foundation for Science should now finance high school research and technology projects that are in line with national strategic directions, which are those identified in the national strategy of science, which are information and technology and telecommunications technologies, biomedicines and genetics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, new materials, new energy, environmental science, socio-cultural transition from a society from industrial society to a knowledge society. For example, I'm going to point out an example of Ireland. The Irish Foundation focuses on funding research in two areas of biotechnology and information and communication technology. Such focus is a great responsibility and only a single state parliament can do so. The particular importance is where I see our task is that politics should build stimulating measures that will encourage and encourage, above all, students, post-doctors and scientists to remain active in research within and outside the system of scientific activities. It is necessary to encourage human talent that has achieved discoveries and innovation and prosperity. And other strategic values support good ideas, fostering cooperation and partnership, and promoting excellence will certainly hope to give the desired results. Focusing on priority areas can help identify strategic developments at national level and create a wider political climate that will enable the convergence of strategic thinking and planning. Priority areas are underlining the reform of the system of higher education, the inflow of brain information and communication technology, biotechnology, new materials and new production processes, environmental science and sustainable development, the socio-cultural transition from industrial to knowledge society. I will remain at the top of environmental science and sustainable development. Under this heading, the report says, I quote: "Thematic priorities need to be identified through the construction of national and regional sustainable development strategies, but at the same time it is necessary to think about the development of products and services that can find a place on the world market." Several possible thematic priorities that are broadly consistent with the thematic priorities of the European Union's sixth framework programme. These are clean sources of energy, savings and efficiency, alternative motor fuels, sustainable transport and transport systems that are favourable to the conservation of the environment, global changes and eco-systems, gas, water protection and clean water production, biodiversity, sustainable land management and the development of a system of irrigation of Mediterranean culture and sustainable development of Croatian islands, healthy food production. Furthermore, the report says. The emphasis should be on research and development of technologies that would allow economic progress on sustainable development principles while at the same time preserving the natural environment. Croatia has natural advantages and specificities that favour the use of renewable energy sources, so that Croatia could easily become a land for development, demonstration and use of new energy sources and new energy technologies. It literally stands in the National Foundation for Science Report, which is actually our reality. It is an obligation to keep a fifth of the diesel fuel of vegetable origin on our gas stations by 2010. Are we going to produce the diesel or are we going to import it as usual? These are questions we need to find answers to. Despite suitable soil, climate conditions and the knowledge of voritants, the main restriction in the production of raw materials and bio-processing is still an undefined legal framework. So this project, which binds us and the European Union directives, has no laws, and when we sow genetically modified organisms, we remember calling for European Union directives. What will happen, for example, with the project "Adria Society". This project is a good model for applying the precautionary principle, as the adverse consequences are mostly reversible. So that this does not happen to us, that the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology and the Development of the Republic of Croatia does not go in one direction, and the Croatian Assembly with laws and ratifications such as the "Adria Society" possible in another direction. For all these reasons, we appeal to continue, of course, with all those objectives outlined at the National Foundation for Science and at the Club of HSS, we are prepared to support this Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38188	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38189	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Management Board, Mr. Secretary of State. The National Foundation for Science is a strategically important institution with the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development in order to ensure economic development and foster employment. The foundation's intention is to help transform Croatian society into a society of knowledge. The development of a world-renowned scientific research and knowledge-based economy. The foundation systematically develops its work from its draft, which is witnessed and a very thorough and quality prepared report. However, the fundamental elements of the foundation's action should be publicly repeated because of the key shortcomings in the current action. This is about the problem of attracting outside the budgets and overall co-operation with the economy. The experiences of countries developing in the direction of a knowledge-based society and economy show the necessity of cooperation between science and the economy. Croatia is significantly lagging behind here, and the National Science Foundation can be one of the most important institutions that can change such a picture. Despite the above mentioned strategic specifics, the 2004 National Foundation Report does not mention any realisation of extra- budget revenue or cooperation with the economy on the implementation of its own programmes. On page 38, it is mentioned that the programme "Partnership with Industry in Basic Research" is prepared but without details. It is positive that the report recognises this problem, announces a proactive action, as well as the inclusion of a new member of the Executive Board in charge of the design and implementation of activities related to the attraction of extra- budget funds. It is obvious that, in the future of the National Foundation, significant shifts should be made in this area. But it is a systemic problem that cannot be solved in isolation. Therefore, in realising cooperation with the economy, it would be useful to encourage cooperation and partnership, above all, with prominent companies such as case in neighbouring Slovenia, with business associations e.g. with Croatian Employers' Association, with scientific institutions e.g. with the Economic Institute and civil society associations working to explore or promote the cooperation of science and the economy. In fact, the problem in Croatia is the ethical concept of science. It's one of the rest of continental ethics that, of course, was the only recognized pattern in this case in the second half of the 20th century. This led to a complete, complete dependence of scientific institutions, universities, yesterday we saw the Croatian Academy, about the state. And that state sucks is something that we just have to get rid of. It is very good that private universities appear, although I must say that there are not enough of them at this time and their activities are not yet thoroughly evaluated. The most important thing this Parliament can do is help encourage donations. We in Croatia simply do not have adequate tax laws that could direct companies and individuals to design various programmes that would benefit this partnership and cooperation between science and the economy. Until we achieve such a thing, we will have a situation where, for now, this National Foundation can mainly serve as a coordination institution and which, I hope, can be more successful than we have previously passed on the experiences of other countries, especially those in which these issues are far better solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38190	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government. The report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia has been made up of quality and shows that we are on a good path when it comes to the tasks that this institution has and which it has given itself, or which this Assembly has given in 2001. But this report I would have said is actually a report just practically one year, the first year of real work because in 2001 and until 2003 it was stalking and forming a foundation, so we can talk more about programs than the results of work which is logical given the shortness of time since its founding. However, I think the founding dynamic was good because it has been following exactly our approach to the Bologna processes since 2001 when we signed the Ministerial Conference in Prague in 2003 when we accepted the general principles of the Bologna process. So I think the foundation will grow and stand up together with our reforms in terms of accession to the Bologna Declaration. That's why we would be talking here more perhaps in principle about the tasks we should have in the future than about the very report that's really correct but I say we can't have results yet because it's only been one active year. So we can divide the trust's tasks according to the law and according to what's shown into two parts. One task is to reform the system of higher education and another group of tasks of brain inflows, i.e. the inflow of more quality researchers. In this presentation, given the limited time, I would refer only to the first group of tasks, so improving higher education. It is a sad fact that the necessity of such a project is really very relevant because for decades we have neglected higher education, and with us today studying is unfortunately exclusive and not something that is available and common. This also suggests that we have only 7% of those who have a college degree and that European norms are 30%. So if we have to double that number, then we're way behind on the start of the reform, because we're not gonna be able to wait for the results for ten or more years. It is even more tragic to know that as many as 30% of the working population are lower or lower education. And what's still unfavourable is the ratio of technical professions in a higher education study to others. And that is the basis of the technological and therefore economic development of the state. That ratio is just the other way around than it should be. In the decline is the interest and study of technology and technical branches which should certainly correct this foundation by stimulating its scientific projects as well as by directing the high school system itself. Several perhaps crucial, I would say the recommendations that the foundation should include in its programmes so that the following reports are also of quality in the results and not just in the programmes. So our goal is not only to increase the number of people with higher education but to change the quality of the way in the higher education system. This system has several major defects that all of us who have been involved in it for years, unfortunately for decades, can recognize. First of all, there is no creative way of thinking in high school systems. The basic goal of the high school system is not to accumulate knowledge because today we have knowledge on a computer on the CD or on the Internet, not to accumulate facts but to learn to extract facts where it is stored, and instead to learn to use it creatively. In this way, higher education suffers from the same disease as primary and secondary. The second is extremely unfavourable and the Bologna process will make it right, but it won't make it right if we don't get to know those facts. It is an extremely weak educational contact between teachers and students. It's a sad fact that there are colleges with us I won't name them, because they'll be recognized, in which the contact of teachers and students is once in a lifetime, and that's on the exam. That's inadmissible. Teacher and student must be in daily contact in the form of seminars, exercises, different projects, not just optional lectures and mandatory exams. It's something that's been throwing the quality of our high school system back decades. At the same time, according to the Bologna process, when the number of teachers and the number of students align, we will see that we lack a huge number of teaching spaces, unfortunately a large number of universities have fewer teaching spaces, classrooms and others than there are categories and objects, so that these are things that should also be included in these projects, because if we do not include them as fundamental changes then of course there will be no results. A few words about teaching programs in our higher education institutions. These curricula in most cases have nothing to do with practice. If higher education and science must be engines and must, technological and economic development of Croatia, then higher education programmes must be related to appropriate practice regardless of the study of technological, technical or biological orientation. The teaching staff also does not fit most of the cases in the Bologna processes, as the Bologna processes are associated with scientific and teaching work. Without a creative scientific way of thinking, there's no quality teaching in high school. If we do not produce an expert who has a scientific, therefore including a critical approach to the evaluation of a project or programme, then we have not done a good job, although we are likely to increase the number of graduate students, or completed experts. Another problem of higher education that the foundation can also correct and classify in its programme is the publishing of textbooks or teaching readings. There are colleges where the teacher's promotion is not related to the issue of teaching reading, so then you have a teacher who is a regular or outstanding university professor, and on his department is a 11-year-old textbook. It's better not to learn at a college like that than to learn. Finally, the length of the study duration shows that the relationship and the serious approach to the student is very different. We know that some studies, we won't mention colleges again, lasts exactly twice as long as planned, eight years. So for four years there's been a waste of money, a time of teachers, students, parents, and a society that pays for it and maintains it. On the other hand, we have colleges where the average study is exactly a month that matches the predictable years of study. So what am I saying? We have studies that are already consistent with the Bologna process or are very close to the Bologna processes. Their experiences should be used. I'm going to be subjective, so I'm going to say medical school at the highest number of department working group students is five to seven. The number of contacts with a student, teacher and student is ten times a week. Contact with the profession is absolute and it is unimaginable that one teacher is not also a quality expert and ultimately a condition for advancement under number one with scientific papers and publishing abroad is the publishing of textbooks at least every five years, which is already too long. But, of course, the foundation certainly sees it and will include faith in its processes, but there is also a problem of funding. Here we see the funding being counted I'll say in millions. This year 9 million, last 11. When you look at similar people abroad, at least the initial measures are being invested in billions. So from our foundation as long as it gets 9 million kuna a year we can't expect it to boost all these processes and connect with all the other entities that need to encourage these processes. However, the economy should also be stimulated to find in projects not a good friend's foundation in cooperation but to find its own interest and higher universities can and must offer profits to the economic operator. This gain can be a scientific analysis of some results, a new product, new material, a specifically educated expert, communication with abroad, etc. So the economy needs to offer cooperation in a way that the economy finds its profit in it and then it will give money for a project like this. You could talk for a long time if it wasn't for the red light, but I'd say only one example of Austria, that's the last sentence. In Austria, there is a similar institution, called the Science Fund. The first sentence of its programme is to encourage fundamental research that can contribute to economic development. So do not finance the project why the fly orbits the wine at a speed of 6 meters per second rather than how to produce new technology, new product and improve the Croatian economy. I believe that the foundation in this direction will continue to work and therefore I accept the report on the first year of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38192	Thank you very much. It's your turn, sir, but before that, at 11:01, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. And now it's Mr. Representative Marko Turic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38193	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Management Board, Secretary of State. The report we have received gives a complete picture of the position and work of the foundation, its growth, positive development in all aspects in this short time. I remember last year it was a very rude report and not to say that all the MPs were somehow critical of it. I'm glad the mood's different now. The Fund is undoubtedly fulfilling the function for which it was established, which means an assessment of the implementation of individual projects and their funding. The growth of the institution, this major national project in the development of national science and higher education policy, takes place in accordance with the strategic plan foreseen for the period 2004 to 2008 which sets out the values and priorities of the labour rules and means to launch the Foundation Programme. And now something about activity. Significant activities have been undertaken in the programme to support the reform of higher education and adaptation of science and higher education systems so that the Republic of Croatia can join the European space of higher education. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education has created basic conditions for the implementation of the programme. There is a need to build institutional systems to improve quality in higher schools and to necessarily support efforts to build this system. Then I see the reform of doctoral studies as crucial for further progress in higher education and science in Croatia. I also support the promotion of a high standard of higher education at higher schools and active support for all members of the academic community mainly teachers, co-workers, professors, students, then administrative staff in building mechanisms to improve their own quality. Furthermore, the programme called the "brainflow" is very important, and given that both people and knowledge are lacking today and that all countries are facing a lack of highly qualified people. The business sector around the world must simply compete for them. Highly qualified persons must be able to choose stay and employment in Croatia. Responsibilities for the creation of conditions that will stimulate the inflow of the brain lies also in the appropriate educational system and science system that produces labour in the required number and level. We also need an open labour market that offers good jobs and attractive careers, highly qualified professionals. Responsibility lies also on responsible political institutions, but also on the business sector. In order for experts not to leave us and for highly qualified migrants to return to the country after they have improved their knowledge and skills abroad, we must offer them appropriate conditions, which is primarily an attractive system of higher education and research in our own country. I consider it important to cooperate with prominent European foundations, especially the European Science Foundation. Here are mentioned, the Irish Foundation, Sweden, then, the Swiss Science Report, the Science Foundation. By taking good experiences from systems that function for many years we expect that the Croatian Foundation will contribute to the promotion of science and higher education and technological development. As the report is adopted by half of 2005, it is very useful to include a review of the establishment of the Foundation programme for this year. According to the 2004 Strategic Plan, as mentioned by 2008 with key objectives indicated. It is also particularly important that the Foundation strives to encourage industry cooperation and, as we have heard from the gentleman, and basic research in Croatia through direct co-financing. This will result in an increase in the share of extra-financial financing in the overall financing of development research in the Republic of Croatia, and the state budget would not remain the only source of revenue. I hope so, and my wish is that the Foundation and extra budget sources will encourage those programs that will result in innovation and patents and help talented students. Especially younger prominent scientists and experts in the economy, high school institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I believe that further positive growth of cooperation with other European foundations, visible and in the formation of an international council, will contribute to further profiling the National Foundation as an institution that finances high-quality scientific and educational initiatives, and all of this fully according to, of course, world standards. And in the end, he would look back, and I agree with the distinguished representative Doric, who mentioned that in some countries scientists from such foundations, then the academy at one point thought strategically about its country and pulled a huge economy forward. I would like, since we have a report yesterday from our Academy, and a roof scientific institution, and a cathedral of wisdom, so I would like to hear and see that and those strategic, I will repeat that, strategically considering exactly what Mr. Representative mentioned. I'm happy and glad to hear about olivery and Arboretum and Trieste, but perhaps some other experts and other difficulties can do so. And these people are worth exactly what we want and need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38194	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38195	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the proposer, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I won't repeat much of what's said. I think it's a very exemplary report and that the Reporters deserve every recognition of the conscience and the thoroughness of the work they do. You'd put a word in this whole discussion that seems very important to me, which is "realism." When it says realism, then I think that on the one hand our expectations about the Foundation must be realistic, and on the other hand that the Foundation must also be realistic when setting its goals, priorities and work plans. The debate has shown from time to time that we may expect too much for a truly practical year of work. And I personally appreciate what happened in the first year very successful, aware that this is actually the beginning of something that we all want to be one of the role models in science and higher education. What I would point out, as I did yesterday at the Academy of Science Reports, is therefore, it is necessary that the results of the action have practical implications. In doing so, the work of the Foundation should promote research and those programmes that contribute to the economy and development. And here I have a note that apparently the First Year Foundation focused on building a system as such. Personally, I don't think that this phase should last too long, that from that stage of building the system as such should go more in a few years, maybe a year or two, right towards the economy. And I would like to stress this prejudice a little bit by the fact that I come from the sphere of social sciences, which is a prejudice that only technical, biological, natural and similar sciences contribute to society and economy. I think they also contribute to social sciences when we talk, for example, about what justice and its organisation mean for the economy. That it's a very good example. I'm also going back to that word "realism," what Professor Hebrang was saying, I think it's a key thing. That we'll eventually face the fact that we lack equipment, people, and maybe some criteria. And that it can't be achieved overnight. It requires huge investments. Even more human resources than material resources. I also see some areas that I know of where there is an obvious proportion between the need for human beings and the fact that human beings simply do not exist. They don't exist. With that, too, and when we talk about reality, I think the expectation that the Foundation will return or bring in some large number of top experts from abroad is not very realistic. In fact, even if it were a much bigger asset, I think by investing, and even in wages, we won't get that effect. In fact, people come and go there, real scientists and researchers, where they have top working conditions. Therefore, in order to get back either a Croatian scientist or someone from abroad to come to Croatia, you need at least the same conditions to ensure that you work in Croatia as you did and somewhere else will not come because it is scientific from horse to donkey. And here, not to be too long, in the end, I think we should really look at the needs. I don't think the funds the Foundation has, because you're looking out for that hundred million kunas are available to the Foundation now to go into programs for 100 million kunas. The Trust has basic capital to be preserved. So, only with that extra one can handle it. So they are actually for these great goals that we have set, which we expect, humble and should be aware of. And I'm going back to what some others have pointed out, the state budget must not be the only source of funds. There should certainly be ways to get other sources involved, but I don't think that's going to be done with nice words. None of the economy is going to invest money, big money just because someone came to convince him, but they have to have their own interests. The interest is primarily in programmes that will return something from research in this same economy, and the second in tax policy where it is outside the domain of the Foundation itself and we have to say to the Ministry of Science, it is a strategic issue of this society because experience shows that so far all the councils and all governments have been reluctant to create one more significant flexible mechanism of tax relief that would, of course, with the control that there is no abuse motivated on investment in science, and the other parties also have to say culture and art. At the end of the report, I think it's very well done, and especially the same cooperation that's also very good between the Foundation and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38196	Thank you very much. The debate ended with the MPs. And now, Mr. Proposer's representative, Professor Dr. Pero Luchin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38197	First of all, I would like to thank all of you for your support, for supporting the report, but perhaps I would like to thank you most for supporting this and, several times, stressing our approach to evaluation, our approach to evaluation and our approach to excellence. Because we don't have such habits in our system and clearly when you start with the program and when it happens that 4/5 projects don't go through, it doesn't get accepted, then it usually creates riots, protests, pressures, etc. Of course, in our experience, we have been exposed to such pressures, namely, in our higher education, there is a habit that the project is enough to report, that it does not matter what it is and that funding is expected for such a project. I think that this is the most important support for us to insist on such an effort because, of course, many will not be able to identify ourselves in the programmes and others, we expect that just those who fail to learn how to access the programmes, and learn that every time we fight for funding, we need to clearly meet the content and requirements of what the evaluation process requires. It was clearly a whole series, there were not so many questions so that I might not systematically answer but I would like to put some of your comments and suggestions in the context, I think we all need to keep in mind that it is a system building and that the National Science Foundation is just one of the segments of the system that has its purpose and that this purpose and its mission should be made measurable and visible. Clearly, if the foundation remains out of the context of the entire system then it will not be able to achieve its mission because of this it is important that the organisational changes in the system of science and higher education, and therefore the National Foundation has set out with the first programmes to encourage these changes, to support these changes and the whole reform of the science and higher education system will be turned to excellence which can only essentially give some assurance that the science system in Croatia will achieve its objectives. Therefore, the foundation must have its clear defined position and what is terribly important, and that is that you are insisting therefore on the Croatian Parliament in that position and supporting that position of the foundation. I would refer to the discussion of Professor Hebrang, for example, we are pleased that you have recognised the importance of investment in building and supporting reforms in the system of higher education and the construction of doctoral studies but also quality systems because clearly, we are talking about the development of industry, we are talking about a knowledge-based economy, we are talking about inclusion in Europe, but it is not all going without people. So if you simply go to see who is able to carry a knowledge-based economy, then you will see that there are only 8 to 9 thousand doctors in Croatia who are working. With 8 to 9000 doctors of science, you cannot talk about a knowledge-based economy, and that is why it is necessary to reform doctoral studies, and therefore the foundation has decided to support doctoral studies or to set up doctoral studies and to change some of our habits that have essentially gone in the wrong direction as far as doctoral education is concerned, and we can talk in this country about a knowledge-based economy only when we have 20, 30, 40,000 doctors of sciences who are clearly educated with quite clearly defined competences, and in defining these competences to participate in the economy, or those who need those competences. Therefore, the purpose of doctoral studies in this country must not and must not be exclusively academic reproduction, the production of new professors for colleges, or universities or for scientific institutes, but above all people with competences that are necessary for the development of the economy. You have a whole series of examples but perhaps the easiest example from that sector where I work in science, so in order for you to develop biotechnology, you have to have educated people. The training of a man for biotechnology so that he can do anything in biotechnology especially if it is targeted for two to three years, and now can you imagine what industry, which the company in Croatia is going to invest in 30, 40, 50 people in order to just school 2, 3 years somewhere where it is expensive, while not taking into account that there are Croatian institutions, that there are Croatian universities and that there is a doctoral study whose task is precisely to produce experts who will be able to apply one biotechnology method. So if, for example, Pliva now decided to produce monoconic antibodies as a tool that is a fundamental tool in... period, it should invest at least 2 to 3 years in creating experts who can do so. If it's done by universities through doctoral studies and, of course, through... scientific results it's clear that it's much more effective for example for one Pliva but also for the whole system. I'm also so glad that you recognize the importance of the quality assurance system, because it's a huge challenge for our academic community, for our universities. It is very often interpreted, i.e. the very idea of quality is very often interpreted as unclear, inexplicably something as itself implies, however, it is a very serious job that we should do in a very short time, adapt to European standards and install all of this into our institutions where among other things there is a rather solidly rooted traditional Humbolt way of thinking that implies that there is a university professor that no one should control and let alone those who are users of this system, therefore students. I am also pleased that Professor Josipovic pointed out the importance of social sciences we recognized it as a strategic priority so we defined it through the strategic priority of support or support of transition from industrial society to knowledge society. So that's how we formulate it. However, clearly if we are talking about the competitiveness of one economy and if we ignore that the competitiveness of the economy cannot be seen beyond the context of the competitiveness of the whole society, therefore the socio-humanist context and that it is not possible to talk about the competitiveness of the economy if there is no relevant indicators or competitiveness in the social and humanities field. That is why we expect that by just launching the program when we identify them and according to what we estimate or what you are asking us to do is either a strategic priority for Croatia or a solution at a certain point we will prepare these programmes, of course. Clearly, the real results of the foundation, we all try to structure all the programs to make the result as measurable as possible, so visible that we can document it. This is why our focus in this period is therefore to support the change of system and to encourage the creation of people or education of people clearly in the science and higher education sector, to define competences, to promote education based on competences, and not only on competences defined by the academic community, but competences defined by employers, defined by the private sector but not only by the private sector, but also by the social sector. For example, health reform will be difficult without the creation of people with competence to bring out this reform. But there are also resources to encourage cooperation in Croatia, there are people, but in Croatia there is a huge fragmenting of research, the fragmenting of institutions, there is too little cooperation and practically all the programmes that run the foundation are going to seek cooperation between institutions, among individuals. Of course, we expect that through the programmes we will attract investment from the private sector especially in that segment relating to fundamental research primarily with the aim of creating people for certain processes. However, a clearly established system, clearly developed excellence and principles of cooperation through, above all, programmes will create our competence, hence the competence of our system of science and higher education to compete on funds outside Croatia. So there are funds, there are... The work programmes of the European Union, there are pre-accession funds, there are a whole series of sources of funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of these foundations I mentioned in the introduction also have funds related to cooperation with individual states. We clearly expect that through a quality defined system, through a clearly defined and documented quality of our programmes we can also join European funds and European trust funds. So we count that we can attract funding not only from the private sector but also financing clearly from Europe. Several times, the issue of technology projects was mentioned, and why the foundation no longer focused on technology or technology. Clearly, the foundation cannot and must not function outside the context. So there is a system of technological projects that is funded by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. In this system, significant funds are being invested in technology projects and we have estimated that at this moment it is not our strategic priority to develop a parallel system but to build together with the ministry a system in which the foundation will receive part of its mission and encourage that part of the technology projects that join the Foundation mission. Most of the time, when thinking about scientific policy and the way it will be chosen, or what kind of projects will be financed, then most of the time, in most European countries, it has now been stabilised that the government's changes are first targeted in terms of funding, research funding is directed towards applied research, and then through the changes in the next period it is directed towards fundamental research, so that there is always a squabble that basically means instability in the system and you can imagine what kind of instability would be in a small system that is ours, which is not even clearly defined. Therefore, when defining national policy all resources should be taken into account and it would be wrong to focus solely on fundamental research or, for example, exclusively on applied research. In one and the other, excellence is important, and that's what needs to be insisted on. I think I've answered more or less all open questions and open dilemmas. Once again, I thank you. I think the next steps we need to take, and that is to define programmes according to strategic priorities, are essentially big bites for all of us, and we will find it difficult to achieve this if the Croatian Parliament does not stand very clearly behind certain decisions, behind certain programmes. And I thank you for standing behind what we've done so far because it's a guarantee that we can actually take the next step right now and that's to define research programs that will be focused on strategic priorities because you need to know when we focus on shutting down a large number of people and all those who don't recognize themselves within the program will rebel, protest and create resistance. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38198	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38199	Report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am giving the opinion. A report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 90 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38200	It would now be the 9th item of the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 301. We're waiting for a representative of the government, so we're going to make an inversion, with item number 10 out of condition, so it'll be postponed for Wednesday. And now we're going to the 11th point. - Final proposal of the Law on Plant Health, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 302 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Mr Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! Allow me, in short lines I will try to state for which reasons the government went to law-making and laid down the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health. First of all, I would like to emphasise that this is another law that harmonizes Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. I must also point out that so far this issue has been regulated by the Law on Plant Protection. The law in question is 1994. He had amendments and additions in 2003, and the Law on Plant Protection was not in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, no directives were incorporated which later came and regulate this issue. I would also like to stress that the 94 Plant Protection Act was regulated two areas, two, I would say separate areas which we just did and by law which was also here in the government a few weeks ago. It is a segment of the field of health control of the plant in transport and the area of registration of plant protection products and their placing on the market in the Republic of Croatia. So the existing Plant Protection Act is divided into two separate laws. The Law on Plant Health and the Law on Plant Protection. In addition to the lack of compliance with European Union legislation, there were still certain, certain shortcomings in the existing law and therefore we went to the adoption of a special law. I would like to stress from certain lack of law, the applicable Law on Plant Protection, that it did not have a single body in charge of the area of plant health in the Republic of Croatia. It also did not regulate the system of issuing plant passports, then did not foresee the possibility of prescribing protected areas. I would also like to say that the next deficiency was that it provided for a mandatory review of all types of seed, unlike the legal regulation of the European Union, which sets it only for certain types of seed. It also set out the obligation of two years of quarantine supervision for certain types of fruit material which is contrary to the acquis and European Union directives. Furthermore, in addition to only work on the harmonisation of a large number of directives and decisions, full reorganisation of the existing inspection service should also be carried out with the employment of the minimum number of plant health officials needed, as well as the reorganisation and standardisation of diagnostic laboratories. The main objective of the proposed Law on Plant Health is the regulation of health care services of plants appropriate to international standards. The aim of plant health is to protect plants, plant products and other controlled objects from harmful organisms. Preventing the introduction and spread of harmful organisms. Determination of the presence and determination of the harmful organism as well as the possibility of optimal production and trade in plants. Environmental protection, as well as environmental protection against the effects of harmful organisms, the introduction of biological plant protection and the direction of the development of plant health. Questions to be settled by the Law on Plant Health. The proposed Law on Plant Health sets out all relevant issues in the field of plant health and creates a basis for the adoption of a large number of sublegal acts that will allow further harmonisation of the regulations of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the community. The proposed law will primarily ensure the next establishment of a system that allows adequate health protection of plants in the Republic of Croatia, especially after the suspension of supervision of the border crossing points of members of the European Union. Afterwards, the provision of a plant health system as well as in other Member States of the European Union with regard to compliance in implementing the measures and meeting the requirements applicable on the common market. Furthermore, appropriate international, appropriate internationally recognised standards and measures for the field of plant health. Interstate cooperation to exchange data with each other and establish common databases relating to the area of plant health. Afterwards, the removal of barriers to international trade in plants, plant products and other controlled objects. All transactions and plant protection tasks resulting from accepted and signed international contracts will be precisely defined. Creating a legal basis for the introduction of a register of manufacturers, processors, importers and distributors of plants, plant products and other supervised objects. A clear distinction will be made between the duties of the main holders of these operations, the ministries of the competent state, the fitness of sanitary inspection, forest inspection, the institute and the Forest Institute, thus creating a legal basis for the more transparent design of the future structure of the single service for the field of plant health and establishing a clear hierarchy of responsibility for that area. As regards the process of drawing up the draft law, as regards the process of drafting, the draft law has passed the regular procedure, all phases and is fully in line with those directives. On the draft law, there were no serious objections, some of the comments were accepted and for those not accepted an argument was given. I would also like to emphasise that the government has proposed four amendments that should become an integral part of this Law, these are amendments that are not technically determining the pronunciation. The amendments are divided, I don't know if there's any need to read them? If not, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38202	Thank you very much, Minister. The Legislative Committee? The Agriculture and Forestry Committee? For European integration? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Željko Kurtov, Club of HNS Representatives, PGS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38203	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club, the PGS, will support this Proposal for a Law on Plant Health with the Final Bill on the grounds that it improves the situation in Croatia and we are essentially adopting European laws, we are preparing to join the European Union. However, I will try to highlight here some things that we do because in Croatia we have specificities and that we have touched on the Committee on Agriculture I will try to point out things that may need to be added or eventually inserted into this Law or into another. As an example of the local plum in Slavonia, there was a reference to the Disposal Committee of the Sharks that destroyed that plum. There have been attempts to introduce a U.S. hilly hill country that has been calculated to be resistant to the disease, however, it has been shown to have several viruses in America from which it is protected. There are several hundred viruses in Croatia, and it has not proved to be resistant to the pattern disease that has occurred, resulting in the fact that certain producers have invested huge resources and work. But they don't have results and they're going to lose a few years until they realize it, and we're simply not going to have the kind of plum production that we're supposed to have. We have examples of carnation planting. So in the flowering industry where we get or infected seedlings from the renowned largest producers of fruit material of the French company that is the strongest in the world and that a year, two days people work, torture and no results. How we've done it so far with border checks that haven't just been at the height of the task. They simply do not have the means or working conditions to detect these diseases. We think that since this law will create a team that will apply this in practice, it will improve this situation and not come up with these things. We still have examples of cornfields. What about people who just don't destroy cornfields, don't cheat and develop diseases, caterpillars, and so on who don't attack after the new cornfields of people who work, who create. The disease is spreading and we have examples that the apple that is for transport and the bullets are being attacked in the freezers by these caterpillars and it destroys the apple in the warehouses themselves. I think we're going to have to change some things, and it's going to have to be agricultural land law or it's going to have to be adapted to these laws, otherwise we won't be able to implement this law fully as we wish. The problem is that only larger producers have to pass education and training for plant protection products, and smaller producers will not be obliged under this Act which will result in them being uncontroverted because these smaller producers of their products will also be on the market and placed on the market, and they will not be controlled and will not be educated enough with plant protection funds. And as for the end of the sentence, I don't think it's enough just beatings, but it's also supposed to be carrots that people who stick to all the legal rules and maintain their fields the way they should be rewarded in some way. That's what the Ministry should find a way to do it. And finally we support this bill. We think he'll be in the function of our entire better quality life and the protection of plants, not just plant health. That our people will have a better diet and under control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38204	Thank you very much. HDZ Representatives' Club. Honorable representative Mato Stimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38205	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The 1994 Law on the Protection of Plants with the 2003 amendments in certain parts is only partly in line with the legal gains of the European Union in the field of plant health. In addition, the Law regulates two separate areas. The area of health control of the plant in transport and plant and plant production in the Republic of Croatia and its expansion in the field of the registration of plant protection products and their placing on the market. In the European Union, these two areas are legally separated. Each area is subject to specific legislation. For this reason, it is rational to separate these areas into two separate laws. So the Law on Plant Health and the Law on plant protection products because we are obliged to comply with the legislation of the European Union, and for practical reasons, because the amendments and additions of a directive would result in an amendment and addition of the Law, regardless of which the other directive would not, would not be amended. The launch of the activities of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the accession of the European Union, as well as certain shortcomings which have been initiated in practice during the years of application of the law in practice, has been the process of drafting the Law on Plant Health. In addition, work on the harmonisation of a large number of directives and decisions should be introduced in full reorganisation of the existing inspection service by employing the minimum number of officials needed for administrative plant health services and... and standardizing diagnostic labs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main objective of the proposed Law on Plant Health is the regulation of health care services for plants appropriate to international standards, and primarily to enable the coordinated and effective implementation of work and obligations. The aim of plant health is to protect plants, plant products and other controlled products from pests, prevent the introduction and spread of harmful organisms. The Law on Plant Health regulates all relevant issues in the field of plant health and lays down the basis for the adoption of a large number of sublegal acts which will allow further harmonisation of the regulations of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the Community. The proposed law will primarily ensure: the application of internationally recognised principles of standards and measures in the field of plant health, the establishment of a system that enables the proper health protection of plants in the Republic of Croatia, the removal of barriers to international trade in plant, plant products and other controlled objects, the provision of plant health systems in other Member States of the European Union as regards compliance with the requirements applicable on the common market. Creating a legal basis for the introduction of a register of manufacturers, processors, importers and distributors of plants, plants, plant products and other supervised objects. As the proposed law is in force, it is a prerequisite that it could continue without delay to work further to comply with the phytosanitary rules with the legal property of the community as agreed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the National Programme for 2005 the Croatian Democratic Community Club proposes to adopt the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38206	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38207	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to be a little more critical than this law because I don't think this speed is good because it's going to make a mess. We now have the Law on Plant Protection which regulates two areas. Plants and plant protection products. We are now passing only a law on the woody, the protection of plants, in fact, and this other law does not. So I'm afraid there's going to be a mix-up in the application of this new law, and I would suggest that it goes with normal procedure, to go to another reading. That, to be well considered and all remarks possible and not to go at such speed. In fact, the reason I see that the current department that runs it is considered to be concerned, which is in the agriculture administration as not enough to, that the whole procedure is being conducted and that this department should actually be raised to the level of administration. So like the Agriculture Administration. It primarily collects the entire system. That's what the promoters said, and on the one hand, we keep saying that we have an overpriced state and the IMF that criticises us to spend too much on the state. This is the way we're practically repurchasing the state again, and everything in good intentions. And the other one is the grudge I have, which is mentioned here as good to be all the unique body. I'm afraid of these unique bodies because such a similar attempt was made a few years ago when the State Inspectorate wanted to put all inspections under his hat. So even merchants control what's in health care, and I think food, and that's the same thing that belongs to this law. You need to stay out of it and control what concerns human health should be out of the range of traders. And another thing that is mentioned here as good and that says why it is the reason for the law to be passed, says to remove obstacles to international trade. I'd go back to the old law that exactly according to me is better, which says it's mandatory for all kinds of seeds, not just for certain species. And secondly, it's a mandatory two-year quarantine, quarantine two-year surveillance for certain types of fruit material. That's what the old law specifically asked for, and this law erases it. Therefore, in order to protect healthy, human health in some way and the health of plants in Croatia, I think that the solution in the old law was better regardless of the European Union directives, which clearly aims at something else, the rapid flow of everything, and then everything can be introduced there. That's why I suggest it goes into second reading, because I don't see any reason for this kind of speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38208	Thank you very much. No more reports. Does the minister want to give a final review? Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38209	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for the supported proposal and perhaps we need to clarify a few things about the debate of the MPs. It is true that so far, the Law on Plant Protection has been regulated as the area of health control of plants in transport, as well as the areas of registration of plant protection products and their placing on the market in the Republic of Croatia. I pointed out that we were going to adopt two, laying down a proposal of two draft laws of which the Law on plant protection funds was already and it was already passed to the Parliament. It was a parallel process only for technological reasons not to come to the same session of the Parliament, but the Law on Plant Health has now entered the procedure. I think it's two weeks or a week apart. It means that we have not only practically passed the segment of the law, but it is practically regulated the whole area. I would say here I would refer more to us we often stand in the position that Croatia has expressed its readiness and desire to join the European Union. There are certain obligations in this context, and one of the obligations is harmonisation, harmonisation of legislation, domestic legislation with EU legislation on the one hand. On the other hand, the fact that standards, legislation and directives applicable in the European Union are raised to the highest standard and the protection of consumers and the protection of users and all those in that chain. I do not see that applying and harmonising legislation with the premature acquis of the European Union is something that is to the detriment of Croatian citizens or Croatian consumers, but that the European Union directives prescribe stricter criteria of supervision, control, manipulation and all that is more than our legislation so far, and in this context, I do not see any reason why they should not be applied. The following is also the fact that, by entering the European Union, it becomes a single and single market and of course, in this process of harmonisation, we must bring our legislation into line and accept and I am free to state the conditions that are in the European Union. I'm not a fan, it's very nice to say, we have the best quality food, we have the best quality products. That's nice to hear, and it's good. We also advocate as a ministry for maximum protection of domestic production, increasing primarily domestic production, but also producing competitive production, which will be competitive production. So, which is an interest in the finality of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of all consumers who use it. It means that they have good quality, healthy food, but also food at appropriate conditions and a reasonable price, and in this context I stand at the point that this law, proposed by law, only raises these standards, that it is not about any descent, that there is no possibility that this would be a misapplication of the import barrier, but simply in a better and better way to regulate this problem. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38210	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Plant Health, P.Z. No. 302. The amendments were sent within the deadline by the Government and became a final component of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 86 votes in favour, five abstentions and one against the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. On Wednesday at 9:30, we would start with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, and then prepare the Committee to hold a session before having a basis for a valid debate on the amendment and addition of the Charter of Fundamental Education. So health and schooling are still in order. Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. The session was interrupted at 3:28 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38213	Dear Mr. President, MPs and MPs. Before us is the proposal for a law on the validation of a framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes. For the first time, on the basis of this Framework Agreement, the Republic of Croatia will also be able to benefit from funds that have so far been exclusively intended for members of the European Union. On the basis of the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We will be for the first time this year if today's framework agreement is confirmed, with the already existing funds, so PHARE, ISPA and SAFAART for the first time, we will also be able to benefit from funds that have so far been intended exclusively for the members of the European Union. This is why the Republic of Croatia has decided to join the possibility of using nine funds, and I would like to emphasise the significant increase in the possibility of preparing and the overall capacity of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union. I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has entrusted the state administration's resolution authorities with the responsibility of all those programmes, that they also provide financial conditions for participation in the same programmes, other than financial ones. It is very important to note that in this way the Republic of Croatia is further and better prepared and introduced to the Union's working methods and integrated into the Union's sectoral policy. So, with those three programmes already mentioned, we will now be able to conclude additional memos for the first time on the basis of this framework agreement. This framework agreement is a prerequisite for us to be able to use the funds for the first time as if we are already a member of the European Union. It is a total of 9 funds, and here I think that there is a very important law in front of us, as I have already told us, a prerequisite that the real funds of the European Union could be used for the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38214	Thank you very much. The Committee on European Integration and Legislativeness. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38215	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Membership in the European Union is one of the main priorities of the Croatian Government's internal and foreign policy. There is continuity in Croatian politics and the consent of all relevant political forces. Croatia aims to start and complete negotiations as soon as possible and achieve the level of readiness needed for full membership in the European Union. Since institutionalising relations with the European Union through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia has firmly mapped out its approach to the European Union. The signing of the agreement established a legal and substantive framework for relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. It also launched a comprehensive job of implementing the commitments undertaken and of verifying the ability of the Republic of Croatia to meet the conditions for full membership in the European Union. The perspective of membership as well as preparations for it are an additional incentive to speed up the reform processes and transformation of the state as well as the driver of new comprehensive adaptations in the transition period. By gaining candidate country status, the integration process in the European Union has become even more intense. In order to support and assist the Republic of Croatia in achieving the reforms necessary for its membership, the European Union adopted in October of last year a strategy setting out the framework of its accession process and needs, as well as the height and formats before the European Union's accession assistance. In addition to the possibility of using financial and technical assistance from the European Union through the use of three PHARE financial instruments, ISPA and SAPARD prior to the accession strategy, it also identified the possibility of participating in the so-called Community programs. It is about programmes from different areas such as research and education, social policy, energy and transport, environmental protection, culture, public health, which represent an integrated set of activities adopted by the European Community or the Union to promote cooperation between Member States over a period of several years. The purpose of these action programmes is primarily to support the internal policy of the European Union and the Member States. However, some of them are also open to countries in the process of approaching the European Union. These are considered to be one of the important instruments before the accession process, i.e. meeting candidate countries in the European Union with Union labour methods and their integration of sectoral policy in the Union. The participation of candidate countries will take place in accordance with the principle of full involvement of citizens and national authorities of those countries in the same way as those in the Member States and the principle of joint responsibility through co-financing. Preparations of the Republic of Croatia for inclusion in Community programmes have already started after the 2003 Thessaloniki Summit when it was decided that countries involved in the process of stabilisation and association of the European Community programmes will be open to them to make practical and operational exchange of knowledge with partners from the European Union in certain areas of Acquis and to work according to Union methods. The countries were asked to make a sound and selective selection of the participation programme in line with the priorities set out in individual European partnerships. Croatia has so far had limited access to individual components of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Development and Live 3 programmes and... After obtaining candidate country status, Croatia has joined the adjustment of administrative and financial conditions for participation and has set priority programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on the estimated costs and benefits for 2006, 9 of the 25 possible programmes were selected. The selected programmes will enable Croatia to engage in different areas of cooperation such as promoting development and setting up of services between the European and government or promoting electronic data change between administrative authorities, implementing the European Community policy and strategy in the area of entrepreneurship with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting gender equality, promoting cooperation in the implementation of labour market policies, better use of the transport system i.e. promoting the use of seas and railways instead of roads, promoting energy activities, promoting research and technological development activities and improving the work of the tax system and customs. The total financial contribution to the selected programmes for 2006 is EUR 9 million 317 000. In order to facilitate their co-financing, Croatia is allowed to cover its financial share in front of the PHARE instrument, up to 75% of the contribution. The prerequisite for Croatia to be included in these Community programmes is the conclusion of a framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes. The entry into force of the Framework Agreement will set up a legal framework for participation in Community programmes which will significantly intensify the process of bringing the European Union closer with a view to achieving full membership. It will certainly help to transform society internally, develop and strengthen Croatian potentials and achieve compliance levels with the most developed European countries. It would also confirm Croatia's determination to bring it closer to the European Union, as well as the willingness to accept common forms of cooperation and projects. The Framework Agreement does not require the adoption or amendment of the law but requires confirmation by the Croatian Parliament for its entry into force. This results from Article 12 of the Framework Agreement, which established that the Agreement and its Annex are added as a Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and form an integral part thereof. For all of these reasons, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38216	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing the right club to be exposed. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. HNS reps' club PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38217	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, first of all, since this bill is on the trail of a general provision for joining the European Union, which is one of the important policy definitions of the Croatian People's Party. We will support the proposals of this law. But since it is an important law, there should still be some reference to it. First of all, one reminder. This law is essentially an agreement between the European Community and the six countries of the former Yugoslavia and so on. The Western Balkans. So it's an agreement between the European Community, Albania, Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in the preamble to this agreement, it is very clear that it is the countries of the Western Balkans, which is very, very extensively listed by the promoter, just so that it is known. A few years ago, that fact or that topic would have caused major political questions here, a debate that is, is that the six plus one, minus one, if we're going in that direction, whether it's pulling into new Balkan associations, etc. So it would probably cost a good part of the debate. And here you can actually see it from this framework agreement and its name, but that's it. It is an agreement of the European Community with these 6 Western Balkan countries, and it is very clear, and I say the representatives of the government do not hesitate to use the term "Western Balkans" and in several cases and with a large "Z", only to make it clear where we are and how policies change. As far as this agreement itself is concerned, it is well recalled that as regards earlier programmes in which the Republic of Croatia participates, last year the amount of possible funds that the Republic of Croatia could withdraw from various European Union projects was around 150m euros, and this year it increased by 150, so around 300m euros this year. These are therefore very large funds and will be very interesting to follow at the end of this year or of course during this year, as these funds are withdrawn. It is therefore 300m euros, the funds that have increased by about 150m euros this year, and that is because big money is a very important and interesting political issue, and it is also important that if we miss those funds then, of course, we will disqualify ourselves with regard to the perception of Croatia in the bodies of the European Union and therefore it will be very important to monitor how they are withdrawn and whether the state is ready to withdraw those 300 million kunas that it could in optimal circumstances withdraw from this year 2005. Of course, it is not expected that a country can be able to withdraw a full amount in a short time, but it is of course very important whether it is 50 million or 100 million euros, because 50 million euros of differences are not small money and the club of HNS representatives of the PGS and I will personally monitor very closely how that part of our government's activity is carried out. By the way, be said parliamentary activity in this sense is not productive. As far as I know, there are no mechanisms, or it does not use possible mechanisms to monitor this process. The supervisory role of the Croatian Assembly through its bodies in this very important issue which can therefore be measured by millions, tens or hundreds of millions of euros, as far as I know, lagging behind, and that is not good. We know that our administration isn't perfect, that these are very demanding programs. With all that we can say about it, the European Union is a very bureaucratic institution and the Republic of Croatia, and every other country must meet a series of very difficult and very complicated bureaucratic and their demands in order to withdraw these funds. Therefore, it is not to expect that our bureaucracy is good to this extent, to the extent that it is flexible to do so, so it would be good for the Croatian Parliament to participate more in this than it has so far and so far, as far as I know, not at all. The Croatian Parliament and its bodies, its three or four committees that could deal with it, and perhaps more, say the Committee on Finance or the Committee on the Economy, in this process of monitoring the withdrawal of the 300m euros for 2005 do not participate at all. In some ways, this report, or law, shows that we are not serious about this. In this law very little actually says why the Republic of Croatia, why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is among these 25 possible programmes, why it has just been designated for these 8 and 9. For example, the multiannual programme for small and medium-sized enterprises is not listed at all in the addition of possible programmes. The programme exists, but the programme ends this year. It's a programme from 2001 to 2005. He is not even on the list of these programmes here in addition to this agreement, and it is very important to know what will be the fate of this programme, because of the importance of the content that this programme carries with it and because of its financial strength. In addition to the framework programme which is very, the Framework Programme for Development and Research and Development is the largest programme with 450m euros. However, he is not included in the supplement, and it would be good to hear from the government's representatives as far away as possible with the programme. If this programme really ends this year, in 2005, then we cannot qualify for this programme, it is too late for that, because 2005 is in its half, and these procedures as we know them are. It would be very nice to get an answer to the question why of these selected 8 and 9 programmes, 25 of them are not and community action in the field of public health. We know how many problems and difficulties we have in public health. Why this program has not been selected. It would be good for a government representative to tell us about it, especially since it is a newer European Community programme that started in 2003 and runs until 2008, so in this area, if we are late and I think we are late, we could certainly reach some of the deadlines that we missed. Of course very important, one of the most important certainly important issues that are being opened here given the size of the programme, this is the issue of the sixth framework programme for research and development, which has a total value of 16 and a half billion euros. So, awfully big, very high funds. This programme expires in 2006, and we are also somewhat late in this programme, but this is not only a question of our steps but also the facts of our rhythm of our accession to the European Union, but it would be very interesting to follow how we will and will fill in the possible quotas of the funds coming from this programme for 2006. When the 2005 budget was adopted, I warned on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club that the budget should provide funds for membership in the programme already for this year 2005. It's not done. Perhaps in this sense, it can be compensated because part of it is co-financed by the PHARE programme, but it is therefore a programme that is very betrayed, and just before here we had a discussion of the Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and we identified everyone as saying that this is the perspective of the Republic of Croatia, and of course, it should pay close attention to this sixth Framework Programme of the European Community for Research and Development. So, with all these notes that I have said, with the need for the Government to explain in more detail why this concept is just accepted, why these eight and not some other eight, to describe these programmes to us, their dynamics, until they last, what is their amount and yet equally important question, the question of the absence of any follow-up of these projects by the Croatian Parliament except at plenary sessions, which, of course, will not be enough, so with those two in our opinion important remarks, the Club of HNS and PGS will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38218	Well, here's on behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Damir Cain, who he doesn't have, so he loses his right. And another vice president, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38219	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen and ladies of the government. Of course, my colleague, Radoš, has said the position of our club and since it is obviously our permanent and long-term project that we will support this step. I have reported to warn of a programme that exists in this list, which is not envisaged among the programmes that Croatia is running for and will participate in, and I think it is extremely important and important. We have also talked in this Parliament and in the public over the last few years several times, and in the last year very often about the problem of falling support among Croatian citizens, therefore, in Croatian society. The decline in support of Croatia's involvement in the European Union and the problem of decline and support from 80% to below 50%. I believe that this is indeed a serious problem because there is, in fact, no successful involvement in the European Union without joint involvement in other words, without the highest participation of Croatian citizens in the process. Among the programmes envisaged and not taken into account as far as Croatia is concerned is the Community action programme for promoting active European citizenship. I ask if there is any particular reason why Croatia may not be in a position to join the Community programme to promote active European citizenship because the overall purpose of Croatia's involvement in the European Union, of course, is to build institutions, of course, building competences, of course, the possibility of Croatia operating according to the standards of the European Union. But the ultimate real goal is just to establish European citizenship and, I would say, to recognise civil status at the level at which it is at least minimally recognised in the countries of the European Union. Therefore, among all the projects, one that personifies our underlying problem, which is the rise of Euroscepticism, and therefore the awareness of European citizenship. At the same time, our main goal is to build awareness of this European citizenship and to identify us as other than the citizens of Croatia, as well as the citizens of Europe, as well as the recognition of ourselves and the first order as citizens. So I ask the representatives of the government why did Croatia not exactly put this programme among those to be included? Is there any formal reason for that, or is there a possibility? If there is, I absolutely think it's a program we should choose. Therefore, for this programme, promoting active European citizenship in Croatia, given that it is touching precisely the problem that is shown as crucial in all public opinion studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38220	Thank you very much. Like this, one little explanation. This item of the agenda was started here in the Parliament, a debate in 12 and 8 minutes. Therefore, anyone who applied could have received the word, and now 10 minutes also has the word Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38221	No, I didn't give up. I was cheated. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38222	No one's been cheated, it's not true that I said there wouldn't be an argument. The President of the Parliament has begun the debate and do not insist that you are deceived. You'll have 15 minutes just like you signed up. Ten minutes individually and you signed up for 5 minutes on behalf of the club. There's no fraud, so don't use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38223	Can I go to the pay phone or where?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38224	No one can tell me I'm incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38225	Okay. Dear Mr. Vice President, even though you told me otherwise in front of the secretary, it doesn't matter. After this French "no" to the European Constitution, after the Dutch "no" to the European Constitution, it is obvious that Europe is currently at a crossroads. There is also no doubt that the European Constitution would be told by the British. The European Constitution would certainly be told by the Danes, and if given the opportunity, the Germans and the Italians, too, would most likely. Why? ... The Russians won't get that chance. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why? Three are probably basic reasons. They're all "stuffs" would say Istrians, tired of their administration, and where they wouldn't then be of European bureaucracy. The European Constitution, on the other hand, did not bring down French or Dutch intelligence, did not bring it down either by their elite, or by their capital, or by the state. The constitution destroyed their work, whether they voted for the right hand or for the left. For the simple reason that their countries are in recession because the euro has made an additional blow to their standard, as it has all accumulated 30% to 60%, i.e. because of growing competition in the field of work. These material reasons, first of all by my court, are the reasons "no" to the European Constitution. These small people in Europe, meaning from "bottoms" that would otherwise expect solidarity with the "other European brothers in the East" have brought down the constitution. The European Union is certainly a major capital project. One coin, country without borders, no customs duties, one market, novelled finances, unique standards, etc. On the other hand, it is also clear that Croatia has nowhere to go, it must enter the European Union. The alternative is the Balkans or, as the report says in several places, the Western Balkans. The term "Western Balkans" itself bothers me too much even though this report mentions it in 10 places. Finally, Croatia is a Central European country, Croatia is a Mediterranean country, but Croatia is also a Balkan country in some way. Finally, an old ancient culture came from Greece, meaning from the Balkans. However, it is important to say something else. That Europe is incapable of further enlargement in a year or year or two. It is also clear that the European Union project is not dead. It is clear that such a single project must be pursued by Croatia. Finally, Croatia, in my deep conviction, has no other alternative. Finally, all the countries of these ten that entered the European Union before, for example, a year before profited greatly. They profiled economic, social, economic, development, financial, agriculture and so on. It profiled their industry, profited from their agriculture, for example in one Hungary or Poland, profited socially and similarly. I am sure if Croatia would be given such an opportunity for Croatia to profit as well. Unfortunately, Croatia has another problem, and in my opinion this problem is now called Great Britain. Cash for me absolutely, there is no dilemma, it is neither a political nor a legal issue but a police issue and it must defend its credibility in The Hague. However, the United Kingdom's projection on the other hand is in some way the Western Balkans not in one single new, third, I don't know which Yugoslavia is already entering the European Union in composition. So, along with someone else from this space. I personally believe it is the wrong policy of the UK, but it should be kept in mind that at this time in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are about 6 thousand International Forces troops in Kosovo around 18 soldiers in Macedonia. The projections are obviously slowed Croatia's entry into the European Union at this time. Therefore, in my court, there is no doubt that Croatia must lead an honest policy to the European Union. Croatia must strive for the European Union, Croatia must clearly and 100% co-operate with The Hague, but, above all, Croatia when it is an economy, a social one, when its development has to rely on its pecs. And that means working, working and working, and we need to understand that no one will give us anything but that we will have to fight for everything ourselves. I am also aware that without investment on the side like those that have entered one Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland etc., Croatia will find itself and is already in huge problems. We won't do anything but, unfortunately, a lot of ourselves are who we are. This concrete legislative proposal is about projects weighing 9 million 317 thousand euros where Croatia gives 5 million 334 thousand euros out of its budget and the European Union through the PHARE programme 3 million 982 thousand euros, so Croatia gets a circus of 4 million euros. This is one concrete aid from the European Union and it is understandable that it should therefore be accepted without dilemma. I was going to quote these projects, but it doesn't make sense now. Let me also give you gentlemen a few statistical comparisons for a new Europe compared to Croatia. The gross social product per capita in one Poland is 10 900, Hungary 12 500, Czech Republic 16 800, Slovakia 12 400, Slovenia $18,000 in Croatia. Industrial production in one Poland is rising at 15%, Hungary 8.5, Czech Republic 9.5%, Slovakia 6.5%, Croatia 3.6%. The unemployment rate in one Hungary is 5.9%, Czech Republic 10.3, Slovakia 14.5%, Slovenia 10.5%, Croatia 18.4. What is most interesting is exports, for example in one Poland $69.9 billion, imports $75 billion, to Hungary 48.53, so they're also almost covered, in the Czech Republic $60 million exports, $62 million imports, in Slovakia $28 million have exports and imports $29 million, in Croatia we all know $7.6 million we export, $16 million we import. Foreign debt in gross production in one Poland is 39.9%, Hungary 52%, Czech Republic 37%, Slovakia 48.5%, Croatia over 80%. To what extent the new Europe can thank these parameters, it can primarily thank the capital from Europe, Croatia cannot understand it, but without capital on the part of Croatia unfortunately there is no future. Finally, in regional development, the European Union has invested 257 billion euros from 2000 to 2006, of which 213 billion euros in old Europe and 22 billion euros in new Europe, it is aid through these pre-accession funds that weigh and the Republic of Croatia, among other things, that 3.9 million euros is a concrete fund, but on the other hand, the development of one Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland is not solely based on those 22 billion euros pre-accession aid, it is a concrete money that helps their property or their countries, but the development of a new Europe is primarily based on foreign capital or on concrete business investments, and this is what we will have to understand sooner or later. As far as this Law is concerned, IDS is absolutely that, I welcome this effort towards the European Union, the Croatian government has no doubt, however, once again we want to say that without attracting the relevant capital, the country is black-written. The referendum against the European Constitution has been strengthened, as Mrs Pusic said before, by Euroscepticism, and with Britain and the Hague prosecution is a major culprit. So there is no dilemma about the IDS, Gotovina must go to The Hague but if it is not on Croatian territory, Croatia can clearly not say how it likes to arrest, identify, transfer, but I have no doubt with the advantage of Croatia to do so. For the end of one more sentence, as regards this framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, since one specific financial assistance is clearly supported by the IDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38226	Thank you very much. We have one replica and four corrections of an incorrect quote, so now you're telling me who here can be visible how long a single item of the agenda will take and when it will start. Because there are MPs who are real replica producers and correcting incorrect allegations. Now, the first line has a Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38227	Mr. President, I did not expect Mr. Cain to say today that because of the fact that the referendum on the Constitution of the European Union has not passed in France and the Netherlands, Europe is about to fall apart. This is what I expected from anyone else but he will say that Europe is falling apart because it is not accepted by the Constitution only says that he does not understand that there are essentially two concepts, there is one concept that the European Union is an alliance of independent states and there is another concept that the European Union is a Federation, and in this it is in my court, the French, the Dutch, perhaps the others that you have gathered they want to retain their independence and do not accept such a constitution that will limit them, and you could probably hear that in the statements of people who have said that both in the Netherlands and France did not vote for such a European Constitution. I also cannot agree with you that the issue of the Gotovina General's case is just a police matter because we ourselves know what the content of the indictment is, therefore it is for us both a political and legal issue and cannot be reduced to just a political question, because God forbid this indictment to pass in this content means a criminal enterprise, all those involved in the defense have therefore joined together and have done genocide. Therefore, do not say that this is just a police issue that is a very legal and political issue, and it is unfortunate that neither the former government nor this government have taken any political or legal action towards the Security Council nor the Hague Court to put things in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38228	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38229	Mr. Kovacevic, I don't know if he understood me, but apparently he didn't listen to me. That's the problem with him personally. I know what I said, I said that Europe is at a crossroads, never falling apart, at a crossroads, at a crossroads, you can look at phonograms and you can make sure that's exactly the term I used, and second time concentrate and monitor this discussion if you're going to replicate. As far as Gotovina is concerned, I will repeat once again he is at this point a purely police issue, he must defend his credibility in The Hague and can't Croatia, which the note of the bene, among other things, has owed to be the hostage of one man and the most responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38230	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38231	Mr. Vice President, this is where Mr. Agent Cain said to me a very terrible thing to which this House must react and of course I will not go through with it. He said I don't mind the Balkans, though. Mr. Cain, it's not the first time you've hurt yourself. That's incorrect. This is contrary to the Croatian Constitution Article 141(2). It shall be prohibited to initiate association procedures of the Republic of Croatia in relation to other States where the association would lead or could lead to the renewal of the Yugoslav state union or of a Balkan state bound in any form. That's it, sir. It's not a replica. It's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38232	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38233	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38234	Thank you very much. He's giving up. And correcting Mr. Representative Ivo Banac's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38235	I'm giving up, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38236	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38237	Mr. Cain said that this whole program that we're dealing with here weighs seven billion euros, I don't know if he got it out. But actually, it's for the public to know what it's really about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The whole programme, of course, is much harder and only the country's participation is about 9m euros. No, it is only participation of the state and that it could participate in the programme at all, and the programmes themselves are much greater by giving the European Community the benefit of the countries that 75% of these participations can be taken from one other European Community programme, which is the PHARE programme. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, the programme itself is much harder than 9m euros, as Mr Cain says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38238	Thank you very much. And we have a five-minute debate on behalf of the club. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38239	It's really not right that you don't give an opportunity when you're already trying to correct someone's allegations that they're doing it through the replicas institute, but by correcting an incorrect quote. It's not fair. It seems to be happening to me so I can't replicate to anyone. But I will try very hard to quote several parts of this proposal for a framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in community programmes, which is what is said. And keep your comments to the government you support. In further development of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in December 2002, the European Council in Copenhagen confirmed the European perspective of Western Balkan countries. It's a done quote. Next, as potential candidates over... its determination to provide a need, to support their efforts towards the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In June 2003, the Stabilisation and Association Process in Thessaloniki as a framework for the Western Balkan countries' European direction, the Western Balkans was strengthened. I quote, it is strengthened by the elements of the enlargement process and the Thessaloniki agenda for the Western Balkans has been adopted towards European integration aimed at further strengthening the privileged relations between the European Union and the Western Balkans based on the experience of enlargement. It's just one quote where the Western Balkans are mentioned in four places, and I said, "I don't mind gentlemen of the Western Balkans, I don't mind." I don't mind the notion of a balcony. Finally, it is the source of an old Greek culture and so on. But it bothers me when someone imputes me like Mr Turic that I am violating the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by mentioning, quoting, paraphrasing the report of the competent ministry. Let's move on. During the Thessaloniki summit, the European Council adopted a conclusion on the opening of a Community programme to the countries of the stabilisation and accession process. In December 2003, the European Commission made a statement to the Council and Parliament of the European Union to which Western Balkan countries are familiar with preparations for inclusion in Community programmes and agencies, etc. Therefore, gentlemen, if there is a need here to pollemise, then don't do it with Damir Caine, who only correctly quoted this bill as a bill, but with the promoters of it. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'll do it again. IDS is absolutely for this framework agreement. Damir Kajin did not mention any 7 billion dollars, Mr Radoš mentioned this amount of EUR 9 million 117 million for these ten indicative programmes where through the PHARE programme the Republic of Croatia can withdraw a circus of 4 million euros and a contribution from this country's budget to develop Europe's intelligent energy programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, customs, gender equality, Marco Polo etc. The state singles out or provides 5 million and 334 thousand euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38240	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38241	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Cain has re-exploited and incorrectly used this phone booth again in three minutes to summon what he wants nine times, and what I was talking about here and what's the counter-constitutional shop.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38242	Excuse me, Mrs. Byte. She was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In effect, a colleague named Cain hurt Article 214 because he insulted other MPs and was not adapted to this assembly session and debate. And he hurt his rules of procedure by insulting MPs to keep their comments to the government they support. I think it is immodest and inappropriate with everything that he said in his debate as an agent where he violated the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38244	I don't know if, I don't know, I'm not sure, but it's not even forbidden to speak a little louder because it's obvious that there's a little bit of life here after this. We could conclude Mr. Secretary of State right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! At first, I'd just like to say a little bit. As a sovereign country, the Republic of Croatia signed a bilateral agreement on stabilisation and accession, as well as a bilateral agreement. This Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community is a pure bilateral agreement. We didn't sign it. It's not a multilateral agreement, it's not a convention. It is a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. But what matters and what I think is more important is that this is just a financial ticket. Positive effects will certainly be far greater than these figures that are involved. This is our financial ticket and the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry and all bodies of the state administration and other bodies will be able to benefit by far greater means if, of course, the absorption power will be greater, if we work on good programs. In this sense, we should consider this not as some final amount of assistance that we receive from the European Community but as just a financial ticket and a start. The government has decided on these programmes on the basis of the opinion of the resolutions, and opinions have been drawn up on the basis of the absorption powers and programmes available at this time by individual ministries and other state administration bodies. Of course, the goal of these programs is to make the absorption power far greater. What I would also like to mention, therefore, has already been mentioned here, but I think it is necessary to mention one more time. By way of this programme, we will be able to work more on the electronic data exchange between administrative authorities in the field of entrepreneurship, also with an emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises. Because if certain programmes are available by 2006 we are allowed to extend these programmes for the next period, so that these programmes do not exclude both small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in general. Gender equality, monitoring the implementation of labour market policy, transport system, energy, research on technological development, reform of the tax system and customs are certainly already in itself saying that these programmes are extremely important for what the parliamentary representative said and that Croatia is a competitive country and that as soon as possible we can use and attract both foreign capital and make reforms. Without these programs, without these projects, it will certainly be far more difficult. And because of this, I think this is an extremely important agreement that will allow the Republic of Croatia to continue to adapt to European standards on its way to the European Union. When it comes also to the programme for active citizenship of Europe, I would like to point out that the Government has decided to use the funds for this year and for the coming years under the PAR programme for the issue of civil society development and the Government has not forgotten this very important aspect of approaching the European Union. And that is certainly the education and information of Croatian citizens about what the European Union is. With the help of these projects, we are likely to strengthen the euro quite safely and one realism, as the prime minister says not only optimism, but Eurorealism, it means informing Croatian citizenship about what the European Union is bringing us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38246	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Pero Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38247	Mr. Vice President, I'm using this inaccuracies institute because now I don't understand. Is this an agreement with the European Community or the European Union? Because we know when the concept of Europe is needed, that it used to be used. It is not clear now whether it is an agreement with the European Community or the European Union. It is about the Constitution of the European Union, it is about the legal gains of the European Union in the further development of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, now I am not clear at all. Is this an agreement with the European Union or common or is it a bad translation? What's that now?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38248	Legal personality has the European Community, Mr. Representative, so that's one legal thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38249	Thank you very much. It's 13 o'clock. I suggest we not move to the next item of the agenda. But the session continues at 3:00 when the agenda and vote will be extended, so please don't forget the voting keys. Thank you very much and pleasantly! It's the first time I've seen you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-03-0.u38250	Final draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 301. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I set out with 90 votes for and 3 abstentions of the proposed law, the final draft of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will continue to work at the 14th session. On the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 300 Proposer of law is Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
