ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53239	Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament allow me, in a few sentences, to give the basics of this law and to paint the moment and actually the reasons why it is presently in front of you. The obligation to adopt the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company is set out in Article 42. The law on railways which explicitly stated that obligation within a certain time limit. This deadline is until the application of the Law on Railways, and as we all know the application of the Law on Railways is on 1 January of the following year. The basic principle of the Law on Railways adopted in summer 2003 is the separation of two basic segments in railway operations, which is infrastructure and transport, and this obligation through the basic law is unobstructed and defined which must be respected and which must be implemented by the latest until the application of the law. This division is necessary and necessary because of the fact that the functional rail market as recognised by the European Union is only the one in which there is division into these two basic segments, i.e. the infrastructure segment and the transport segment. These obligations, on the other hand, are also defined in the European Union guidelines. They were also implemented in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and oblige the Republic of Croatia to implement them in its own legislation within a certain period. The Law on Railways under the PAL loan agreement with the World Bank also provides a legal framework on, in the process of restructuring and structural changes on the Railways in order to train it to be competitive on the transport market. Let me remind you in just three points of the framework of the restructuring process of the Croatian Railways during 2005 or the results of this process. So the privatisation process of dependent companies that continues next year was started. The employment ratio was reduced in 2005 so as to be the best indicator of the productivity of the Railway from 243 to 220 which will therefore be achieved with these, from 31.12.200 and is also reduced for the first time by an absolute number of employees in the system to, from 4 and a half percent and by 670 employees respectively. The expected effects of these restructuring measures in 2006 also enabled the reduction of subsidies for Croatian railways, but does not mean that this is reflected in the reduction of support for Croatian railways. In fact, total support from the budget, from the Resolute Ministry, is approximately at last year's level. To be more precise, it amounts to 2 billion 852 million kuna while, within that support, a significant increase for rail infrastructure investments is more than, compared to last year, 167 million in transport investments more than last year by 132 million. So for next year's investments more than 300 million kuna, and for subsidies less for 235 million kuna. The rest make up the others, the difference makes up the other items. So suggested, it was also necessary to say these few sentences about the state of play in the railways. An additional and key restructuring measure is certainly a prerequisite for liberalisation that I was talking about at the beginning. The division proposed by this Act is proposed as follows: 4 limited liability companies are established, a management, maintenance and construction of railway infrastructure, so infrastructure and 3 commercial companies that are in function of transport. So transporting passengers, transporting cargo and pulling trains. The law also provides for a roof company owned by these companies, and the only owner of the roof company will be the Republic of Croatia. The law also provides for adequate government decisions. First of all, the Government's decision on the next 5 months on the definition of i.e. the division of the property of the Croatian Railway Company d.o.o. the kind we know today. And then, a month after that, by 30 June of next year, the Government should, according to this Bill, make a decision on the establishment of the mentioned 4 companies plus a roof company. Commercial companies formed by division, day of registration in the court register... are followers of Croatian Railways while Croatian Railways d.o.o. As we know today, these moments are being wiped out of the court register. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reason for the submission of this Act in an emergency procedure is the time limit for the application of the Law on Railways and the explicit provision provided for in Article 42 of that Law that the law must resolve the issue to these two basic segments until the application of the Law on Railways has begun. This law has been prepared for a long time. He submits on time and proposes to adopt in time. It is in conformity with its procedure with all relevant factors. He agreed first and foremost with the social partners, with the profession and around him reached a high level and a high consensus. We also reported yesterday to the committee responsible, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, and in particular stressed that both full consent and with the social partners were reached on the subject of this Act. It's a rare case, but we're proud of this achievement. We've explained the reasons for the emergency procedure. I therefore ask you to make your constructive positive contribution through the debate, and here we will hang out for the next hour more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53240	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53241	Mr. President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the Secretary of State that an obligation has been imposed on the adoption of this Law, the Law on Railways. The railway law gave the government two years to take a series of measures to implement the restructuring of Croatian railways. A series of discussions in two years showed that the government is not working on implementing the Law on Railways. And there was no obligation or adoption of this law, but because of its unhappiness, the government today had to propose to amend and supplement the Law on Railways because it had not worked for two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53242	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53243	I'll have a similar correction. Namely, there is no obligation under the law to do so now at the end of 2005 by emergency procedure. In fact, secondly, if so, then other obligations would be imposed, for example. Article 32, which speaks of additional sources for financing the Railways, which was amended in 2004, thus abolished. The same date of application was also moved from 1 January 2005 to 1 January 2006 on 3 March. Thus, it is incorrect and that the law is passed on time. Because if the law had been passed and published and entered into force on 23 July 2003, then the law would not have been followed by an emergency procedure several days before it should be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53244	And the third correction, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53245	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53246	You're not on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53247	Thank you, Mr. President. Just so the law is passed on time I think it's incorrect because this law could have been passed in two readings, so in the first reading and in the final proposal it could have been passed by this time. That's one correction. And second, no full agreement has been reached with the social partners, and a very high agreement has been reached with the social partners and we expect as is the committee and said that today during this debate, we will get the signatures of all six social partners who should sign, co-sign on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53248	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Rapporteur of the Committee President, Honored Representative Zeljko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53249	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 38th session held on 14 December 2005, the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on the division of the company HZ, Hrvatska Želice d.o.o. with final bill of law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 411 submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 9 December 2005. The Committee is the Proposal for a Law on the division of the company HZ, Croatian Railways d.o.o. in accordance with the provisions of Article 89 of the Final Proposal of the Law, he discussed it as a home working body. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who stressed that the basis for the adoption of this Law on Railways which adopted the relevant directives and established the basis for the further process of harmonisation of domestic legislation, with the legal property of the European Union, or the restructuring of the rail system in the Republic of Croatia, on the principle of separation of rail infrastructure from rail transport, and the liberalisation of the rail transport market. He also pointed out that this law regulates the basic principles of the division of the company HZ, Hrvatska zelice d.o.o. on independent business entities according to business areas. In particular, he met the board members that it did not go into the process of passing this law without agreeing with the social partners and supported 6 unions representing 99% of employees. Or a consensus has been reached with the social partners. The Consensus has been drawn up at the signing stage on the one hand by representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and, on the other hand, by representatives of 6 unions, signatories of the Collective Treaty, and the signed conclusion will be delivered to the Committee. The debate raised the issue of law-making by emergency procedure. The opinion is also expressed that it is necessary to support the adoption of an emergency procedure law, since the failure to pass this law would create a vacuum, in view of the provision of Article 42. The Law on Railways, which stipulates that the special law will regulate the separation of the company HZ, Croatian Railways d.o.o. according to business areas. In view of the proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure, the Committee adopted by majority the proposal to adopt the law by emergency procedure, in accordance with the provisions of Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. After the discussion of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 6 for, one against, the abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the division of the company HZ, Hrvatska zelice d.o.o. in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53250	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club representative of HSP, respected representative of Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53251	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. This law is actually fateful for the Croatian railways and therefore it is unacceptable for the Club of HSP Representatives to bring it by emergency procedure and now on the last day of the session, in haste, not seeing all the problems he carries with him. Another thing I would like to warn you is that this is a law that was adopted at the government's meeting on Friday afternoon, at a time when the entire nation was stationed with the arrest of General Gotovina and when everyone in Croatia's attention literally focused on The Hague and on what the indictment contains and how this case will continue. In the smoke screen of such a national feeling for our war hero, the government is dead cold on Friday afternoon at 4 p.m., making such a law knowing that no one will ever get media attention to him, to write about this law a more significant review, nor if he writes it that this review will get any space in the media. I'm just afraid we'll have a series of laws like this these weeks. But to get back on the subject. This law refers to Directive 440 of the '91. I will be free to take you a few minutes to read the most important parts of that directive, so that you do not speak in the blank, or that here you do not repeat the thesis that is actually not in the directive. So, the objective of this Directive, forgive me for the simultaneous translation from English if there is any mistake, the aim of this Directive is to encourage the development of a rail network within the European Community to create a single market and increase its efficiency. It'll be done. Private management of railway undertakings separates the management of the railway operator from the infrastructure operator, separates their accounts, along with possible separation of companies themselves to private companies. So, the emphasis is on the accounting separation of the firm and eventually, if at all different, is not going to separate the firm in the way it's proposed here. But also increasing, improving the financial structure of these companies, i.e. ensuring network access to railway operators from other countries. Therefore, the emphasis is therefore on accessing accounting separation with a goal, as the Member States further say in Article 6 that Member States will ensure that the rail infrastructure accounts and the railway operator are managed separately, that the debt is managed separately, that there is no overflow of money and that the accounts will be kept separately to ensure that there is no overflow of funds between them. The whole Directive also stresses in Article 10 that it is authorised and that foreign operators must be allowed into the market of a Member State which adopts this Directive. I mention this all together because in all these articles whenever it comes to the adoption of this directive, this is all mentioned together because in all the articles of this directive that the Government calls on whenever accounting separation is talked about and modernisation. It is simply because everyone is aware that we want to create a single European rail market that will be destroyed by those who are not modernised. Here, however, a dead-cold entry into a project like this without getting a report on how we're standing by modernising the railroad. What is also worrying in this law is Article 3. which says that the Government will decide on how to separate HH into separate companies and will also determine by that same decision what is the underlying capital of these companies. It is not about a small company in a small town in Croatia, but about a Croatian railway with huge properties, with enormous value and a huge strategic importance for the development of the Republic of Croatia, all this is about the government in its decision that may not even be seen by the Parliament. It's totally unacceptable for us. Nor does this law mention in any single word what will happen to the local railways, who takes over them, which belongs to the railway infrastructure manager. But what's scariest is actually the question of the international business association of the railroad. We are witnessing that there is a grouping of Austrian and German railways, that the Italians are also trying to have railways that rely on them, that this whole story about opening a domestic railway market and including in a large pan-European railway market each uses in a way to create one round of railway lobbys and we with this actually ladies and gentlemen are opening our rail market for foreign operators, but it is a huge issue to which neighbouring railway markets will be available to our operators if they survive next year. That's the question. I read the Greek law on the Internet about this. The law is not written on several sides but 56, half of which refers to where all Greek railways have the right to drive and what awaits them there. There is not a word here, but it is easy to leave it to the Croatian government to regulate it with one decision. Completely unserious, very irresponsible and catastrophic for HZ. The aim, therefore, is to open the domestic rail market without the modernisation needed, and I repeat, one of the preconditions for access to this step, because those who wrote this directive and the countries that ratified it within the European Union have taken great account of this component of modernisation, because it alone allows all to be at the same level of technology and at the same level of service, and that at that time, it is indeed fully good for all the equal common market for rail services. Small railway operators are also present in the European Union. For example, IKEA itself wants to drive its own goods among its department houses, so between the factories and its large department stores, but there is not a word about it here. Also, as there are no words about what will happen to the local railways and how they will be further regulated, who will drive them, who will keep it all together, who will buy train cars and locomotives for local railways, which is the role of local self-government, from which taxes will be financed by local self-government, who makes the decision to lift these railways, all together with what I repeat to the Grga, are left with arbitrary decisions of the Croatian government. There is also no word about what will happen to the property of the Croatian Railways daughter's company. Look, it's a whole series of companies that do a perfectly good job while they're in the HZ system, but it's a big question of what will happen to them and their employees when they find themselves in the open market. So this is a whole series of issues behind which there may be only one goal behind it, and this is the quick privatisation of Croatian railways and the seizing of real estate that HZ has, and this one and the other with the law written like this gets unsuspected opportunities. For all these reasons, the HSP club cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53252	Thank you. HDZ representative club, respected representative Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53253	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The obligation to adopt this Law on the division of the company HZ – Croatian Railways is indeed based on Article 42 of the Law on Railways and Directives of the European Union, as far as it is said here that this is not true, which will apply, starting from 1 January 2006. So if it's not before then it has to be today. The Law on Railways was passed in 2003 as part of the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, according to which we have already said, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, the European Community. The basic principle of the Law on Railways is the establishment of a rail system on the principle of separation of rail infrastructure from rail transport and the liberalisation of the railway transport market and it is important to mention as already all the countries of the European Union and candidates for the European Union, the candidate countries have already done or have, as we have, done in the preparation process. The Law on Railways and the Treaty on Loans with the World Bank is a legal framework in the process of restructuring and structural changes on the railways and in order to train it to be competitive on the transport market. As part of the restructuring process of HZ during 2005, the privatisation process of society addicts began, the employment ratio was reduced by 9.4% and the number of employees was reduced by 4.5%. In view of the expected effects of continuing the restructuring process in 2006 with the division of HZ according to this legislative proposal, a reduction of state budget subsidies is planned by 12.7%, amounting to around 235 million kuna compared to 2005, clearly. However, increases in the 2006 budget were planned for investment in rail infrastructure by 167 million kuna and means of transport by 231 million kuna. So almost 300 million kunas more than in 2005. The proposed law regulates the basic principles of the division of HZ into 4 independent companies with limited liability of private activities. First, management, maintenance, construction of railway infrastructure. Second, passenger transport. Third, cargo transport. And fourth, he's pulling trains. The law also establishes a roof society, a system of related companies that manages the ownership stakes of newly established companies. The only owner of the roof society is the Republic of Croatia. The transformation process is carried out by adopting a decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the division of assets on the proposal of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. The current is June 1st, 2006. After the distribution of assets, the Government shall establish by 30 June 2006 companies which determine the value of the underlying capital, the subject-matter, the company bodies and the way in which they are appointed, and the way of achieving the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the congregations of the company. Commercial companies formed on the day of enrolment in the court register are the real followers of the Croatian Railway Company in relation to the property, rights and obligations acquired. And of course, until then, society is deleted from the court register. The law regulates the transitional period from the date of application of the Law on Railways to the establishment of new companies and their enrolment in the court register. And the reason for submitting this legislative proposal to an emergency procedure is, as has already been said, once again, the Law on Railways since 1 January 2006. This kind of organised rail system also becomes compatible with the European system, allowing our carriers to access the European rail market using the traffic geographically favourable position of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't think that like any law so far, it's no matter what happens at the last minute it hasn't been prepared that long and it hasn't gotten a consensus of all unions and all social partners. And it's said, it's signed, I hear with six unions involving 99% of union members. And here, I wasn't looking, but I heard that the other night was that they found between the 1% of one union representative and brought him into the central living room and said that it wasn't agreed, and apparently the next day it was denied. So it's stronger that 1 or less percent than this 99%. So this law will be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53254	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53255	Thank you, Mr. President. So again, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the Law of the Railways imposed the adoption of this law. It can happen a thousand times again, but it's incorrect and it needs to be corrected. The railroad law obliged the government to take care of the railroad. In 2004, she didn't do it, so by law, she extended her period of one year. In 2005, the government made even less for the railroad. So instead of extending the deadline because she didn't follow the Law on Railways, she imposes on us a law that is harmful to the railroad. The government imposes, not the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53256	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53257	He says this law will allow our railway to be included in the European network, the railway network. That's incorrect. Surely our 27-year-old railway car will not come to foreign countries as a railway, but this law will allow foreign railways to come to our premises, to carry cargo in Croatia, and thus will be very easy to compete with domestic railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53258	Honorable representative of Neven Mimica. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53259	It is an incorrect allegation that this proposal for a law is harmonising our legislation in this section with the obligations arising from the European acquis. Because if that were the case, the government would suggest that this law be considered within the framework of that P.Z.E. procedure. I don't see an "E" here after P.Z.". Therefore, it is not possible to establish in the parliamentary procedure the level of compliance with the obligations of the European acquis. So this Law is practically not visible, or at least we haven't had a chance to determine whether this is about a commitment or a possibility to comply with the European acquis.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53260	And the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53261	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Nenadic said the 2006 budget increases the amount for railways worth around 300 million kuna. But that's not true. It is true that 300 million kunas are about to be invested in railway infrastructure, but subsidies are being reduced on the other hand. So it's not 300 million kuna, it's reduced by subsidies.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53262	That wasn't it, pal, at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53263	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53264	Not at all. HNS MPs' club, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53265	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's another law in front of us, so we can call it the law quick. The Law on the division of Croatian railway companies is an obligation stemming from the Law on Croatian Railways and the Law on Railway Safety when the Republic of Croatia took over the principle of establishing a railway system on the principle of separation of railway infrastructure from rail transport and the liberalisation of the rail-transport market on the principle that the railway is equal to the road. But the basic thing that was supposed to be there or the basic assumption is just modernization. So we're talking about what was the point of that. The activities of the legislation were initiated by the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia because domestic legislation had to be brought into line with European Union legislation. These are the plans for restructuring and modernisation of the Croatian railway. By stopping this project, Croatian Railway Modernisation has questioned many of the consequences that will result from the adoption of this Act. For example, whether newly founded companies can be commercially successful with outdated technology and means of work. How much private sector will be interested in investing in such companies, and whether all decisions will remain just a dead letter on paper, while newly established companies are still burdened with the state budget. Because the liberalisation of the transport market that we have to implement will bring operators from developed countries that are much better technically equipped than ourselves. The proposal for this law does not show who will manage real estate and how. It should be noted that other rail administrations make up to 30% of their revenues annually from real estate management. I think it would be much better to establish a society with limited responsibility for real estate management than, say, a limited liability society for train towing, because it does not exist as an independent in any European state, and I suppose that this has arisen as a concession to the trade unions. In addition to the fact that the law does not resolve the property management system, there is no solution to the management of 17 of the existing subsidiaries owned by the Croatian railways, and it is unclear whether or not the newly founded companies will be the owners of these companies. It is not clear in which way the Government has prescribed the division of 4 companies and from which analysts and by which method it concluded that business entities will be able to accept market conditions and competition and to increase their own transport revenues. Article 2 empowers the Government to share the property of the Croatian Railways whose core capital is neither less than seven and a half billion kunas, and the market value is indeed much higher, thus completely marginalising the Croatian Parliament, and the representatives do not know which part of the assets will belong to which society, based on which criteria will be carried out by the Government in the distribution of business buildings, premises and everything else. In Articles 3, 4 and 5, it is proposed that the Government again makes its own decisions on the level of the underlying capital of certain companies without criteria from which the representatives would be seen in which they would be determined. We could practically say that this law transfers the powers of the Parliament to the government. In short, it's a form. It is our opinion that this bill does not guarantee the financial consolidation and conversion of the Croatian Railways into a commercially successful company and that the adoption of this Act will reduce the burden on the state budget, but that this proposal is also another proposal for the superficial and irresponsible work of this Government. All the conclusions of the assessment of the situation and the consequences of the adoption of this Act do not follow any economic analysis from which we would see the rationalisation and efficiency of governance, especially very bold claims about increasing revenue and reducing pressure on the state budget. It is a series of empty sentences that are only intended to deceive us MPs in order to give the government an alibi by adopting the bill to do whatever it wants with significant state property. We believe that both the railways and the resolution ministry have had enough time to prepare the new organisational structure of the Croatian Railways, however, it is determined by the return-to-date, under the pressure of the legal deadlines and demands it puts before Croatia in the process of negotiating the European Union. Furthermore, the proposer states that the implementation of this Act does not require specific appropriations in the budget without considering the fact that the newly created companies, in order to be able to operate independently, must also have means of trade for wages, for normal business and for others. The lack of a financial injection could lead to social tensions regardless of whether a consensus has been reached with the trade unions because we do not have a written clue here yet. I'm not saying it won't come, but until the moment we discuss this law, we haven't seen it yet. What I would like to mention to you in terms of modernisation and what we had a month ago, and the budgets in the draft budget are not foreclosure of any new motor furniture. The business orientation and plans of HZ were based on the decision of the Council and the business plan of the HZ in 2003-2008 under which the restructuring and modernisation strategy was envisaged. The strategy and modernisation were based on the restoration of infrastructure and rolling stock, i.e. the acquisition and transport of high standard means. The purchase of 13 set of slope trains is envisaged, with 8 sets of purchases for the term of office of the last government, as well as the purchase of 71 motor furniture provided for use in suburban transport and in shorter passenger relations. Realisation of this adopted business plan would achieve an increased quality of passenger transport services, an increase in capacity, a reduction in travel time and a more frequent supply of transport services, allowing HZ to become a passenger transport leader in 2007. The absence of the purchase of motor trains stops the development of the railway to the direct damage of taxpayers and us, of course, here. The draft budget does not plan to even purchase new freight wagons in the plan of the same operation, 2003-2008, provides for the purchase of a thousand 547 new freight wagons of which 50 have been realised so far and also in the mandate of the former government. This Law on Railways, the very one to be applied from 1.1.2006, defines railway infrastructure as a public good in the general application of which the railway is, as I have already said, equalized with the road. Of course, if we look at what the budget forecasts for next year, we are very clear that modernization has very, very few words. This is why I am proposing to reject the Proposal for a Law on the division of the Croatian Railways Company, and for the next time when this Law will be proposed, because I hope that MPs on the right will also accept this, all necessary economic analyses should be provided to the representatives to see what the consequences of making subsequent decisions, the list, the assessment of the assets to be shared with newly established societies and a clear proposal for managing the property of basic and addictive companies, and by then perhaps much more important than anything else, to bring modernisation into line to ensure that our companies are competitive by tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53266	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53267	Mr. President. An esteemed colleague pointed out several incorrect allegations, I will correct only one that is actually most striking as an incorrect quote and outlines its debate. She said that, in the proposal's explanation, she wanted to deceive the MPs. It is absolutely not true, it is incorrect and incorrect and in the very reasoning and text of the Law any elements of the deception or deception of MPs absolutely does not exist and it does so to the public in this very sense needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53268	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53269	Mr. President. A respected colleague said that due to the failure to accept an increase in fuel prices of 60 lipes, the development of Croatian railways has stopped. This is not true because, on the other hand, significantly higher funds are secured in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53270	SDP representative club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53271	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will not accept the proposal for a law on the division of HDZ companies and we want to be very critical of this proposal, so let me really point out that the proposed Law is not sufficiently reasoned that any of us can make a decision. He's not reasonable enough. We're talking about the division of one of the largest Croatian companies. The bookkeeping value is 7.5 billion kuna. And since most of the property is not in the function of the Croatian Railways, then these are properties that are at least twice as valuable for the market value. We don't know anything about that data. Therefore, we are talking about the division of Croatia's largest company, Croatian ownership and the proposal is to give the government the right to share with its decision, not to inform us. And when you compare that to the INA Act that has left all the powers to the Parliament then we can see that this proposal is not in the interest of representatives who must put control over the work of the Croatian government. In addition, here we have no basic data from which we can really see whether the law is in favour of the Croatian Railways, and these basic data are that we really know what this means by the property and market capabilities of infrastructure, passenger transport, freight transport and pull as suggested here. We, as Parliamentarians, should have decided on that. And here it says in the explanation that it is because some Croatian railway entities would be market operators, marketable for the game. Do we Parliamentarians who will decide on this know anything about their market abilities? We don't know. Nor have we been informed of this law. We're not informed. And for two years, the railway theme is present in the Croatian Parliament and we are trying to talk about that the railway theme must be present. Unfortunately, it is present by the opposition initiative, not by the government's initiative. That was the reason for the interpretation because we estimated that the government wasn't working on that very important economic operator enough. And why a very important economic operator? Because it's directly employed nearly 20,000 workers who in these companies will be divided like this to the daughters of the societies. But the company is also dependent on Đuri Djakovic's employees at Končar, in Gredel, in the railway workshop in Čakovec and a series of other companies dealing with software projects. Yes, the vast Croatian market depends on this company. And we are today deciding on this law in which we do not have two data so that we can make decisions accordingly. And that's why the SDP Club can't accept this debate. Please, it's been four hours until the end of the session and we're deciding on a law that was established by the Croatian Government two days ago, or three days ago, or four days ago and delivered it to us. In four hours today, we should also finish discussing the company of the highest interest in the Croatian state and the company that is one of the strongest development elements of the Croatian economy. Is it possible that we're going to end this today and accept this proposal from the government? The SDP club hopes that this is not possible because we simply estimate that we cannot make this decision today, we cannot. And now we'll try to explain the direct damage if we pass this law. In the very explanation, the government states why it is in a hurry with this proposal, why it wants to give it to the Croatian public in a hurry at four hours. And it is incorrect that both professional and union consensus has been reached on this law. That's incorrect. This is the wrong information again by the Croatian government. The professional public did not even discuss this, did not debate because the professional public in 2003 when the proposal of the Law on Railways was here said restructuring without modernization no. It's said no. And restructuring under this law will be over in six months and modernization has not even begun. That's what the professional public said. And now we say according to the government's proposal and here in oral exposure can be restructured without modernization. This is harmful for Croatian railways, harmful for the development of the Croatian economy, harmful. And that's why the answer was not the Croatian professional public discussing it. It is said that the union public has also given consent. Now we've got it on the table. That's not true. Unions worry about how people will deploy and worry about being fired, but they don't talk about the text of the law. They didn't agree to the text of the law, they didn't. The trade unions didn't make a positive statement either. And don't accuse them. You can't tell your partners in the negotiations that they agreed to this law. They worry about what will happen to the workers, how they will be deployed, and how they will be fired, and that is their job. But on such an unprofessional law, they did not give consent. It's very clear from a piece of paper that we just got on the table. And that's another delusion from this pay phone. So we don't have a professional or union public as a consensus on this law. What's the matter with this law? The problem is that unmodernised railways, railways that don't even have passenger wagons under 25 years old, gym 29 years old and tow cars 28 years old. These are the capacities that are now being dumped on the market. Fully outdated technology, completely incapable of going to a European rail network. They won't be able to drive in line, but from the government's explanation we see. Such an arrangement enables non-discriminatory access to Croatian rail infrastructure and potential railway operators. Yes, from the port of Ploca, Austrian and German operators will drive from Rijeka. Croatian won't. Why won't they? Because they're uncompetitive, they won't be able to get a job. On Croatian railways, they will not drive these old cars or locomotives. And, in fact, with this kind of separation where we're going to destroy the wolf because the wolf is going to be uncompetitive. If we know anything about the tow, then we know there's twice as much cost per unit as there is European rail competition. Why? Old people with high consumption and diesel fuel, and electricity, these are our locomotives uncompetitive. We single them out. They won't even get a job pulling these old passenger cars where we can still subsidize something. They won't be able to pull them either because passenger cars and passenger traffic will have to think they're taking a more competitive tow and it won't be a Croatian tow. Are we aware that this law makes it clear that we of the SDP also tell workers in the Croatian Railways and the Croatian public. The burden of transport is not a kuna subsidy, nor does the kuna support from the state budget have to be competitive. And he's not competitive. It's just, in a few years, it'll be gone. Train tow disappears, is not competitive with European competitors. It's the greatest danger. Seven thousand workers who work or will work in these two companies will be the most endangered. And what about "Djuru Djakovic" who works freight cars? Who's he gonna work for? For who? Who's going to redistribute to a company like this that has old cars, which is uncompetitive, and I don't know how to redistribute another billion kunas of debts, unpaid creditors, part of credit obligations, whoever gives them credit, who gives them credit. Do you realize that Djury Djakovic, who will eventually sign a 500-car contract, will be able to pay them back tomorrow when he will not drive from Rijeka Ploco but will drive foreigners, foreigners because he will be competitive. What's Gredell gonna do? Are we aware that this is a danger directly for 7,000 employees on the Croatian railways, but directly for a good part of our workers in the industry that is tied to the Croatian railway. We haven't prepared the Croatian railway, we haven't prepared it, we've been talking about it for two years. Restructure without modernizing a very dangerous moment, and let's not close our eyes, we didn't... , we did not secure credit potential, we did not quickly insert new cars, new locomotives, we did not raise what was meant for Croatian railways to be competitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We haven't been for two years. Now that's our basic problem. Now we're jeopardizing these systems, that's the SDP Club's assessment. That's why we think it's a better proposal, it should be a proposal like last year, the Croatian government moved the deadline of law enforcement, moved it. Why don't we do it this year? Why don't we do it? I could understand that the government has its own argument and say that we have managed to modernise and that it will be competitive entities. They didn't make it. So that's what our discussions in the budgets don't agree with. Through the interpretation, we have shown that there has not been enough investment in modernization. And a far more high-quality proposal would be another year of time, because we know that the problems in the budget are, we know, another year. Now let's try to answer and why we're in a hurry, why we're in a hurry. And of course, that's when the calculations and the political ones start, and these are calculations whether anyone really wants the property of Croatian railways, freight and tow trains to the foreigners who will swallow them overnight. Is that what anyone wants? This is what imposes a question that is not good, it is not good in political relations, because we do not see the difference for this haste, it is not, neither is it requested by the SAA, nor is it required by the current negotiations with Europe, why are we in a hurry? Who's going to explain that to us? There's no answer. No, but we have an uninterrupted message from this pay phone and from the government's representatives, and from the representatives of the biggest party, the message of the obligations of this Law stems from the Law on Railways. That's not true. Last year, the government moved the deadline. And this year it can move, a better quality solution. And that is what we want to make clear that we should not rush that we are not simply prepared to apply this Law without harmful consequences for Croatian railways, for the property of Croatia and for 7,000 employees at least. Because I believe that a good part of those who will work on infrastructure, a good part of those who will work in passenger transport will still be on the state budget at certain entities and we will find a way to try to train them, to try to train them. But the most interesting commercial part of those who do not burden our budget but should bring our budget should strengthen our exports and not our imports. Because if these Croatian railways, in terms of freight and train hauls, were really able to run on Croatian railways, on European railways, our foreign exchange inflows are increasing. Our foreign exchange position is improving, our deficits are shrinking, it's a battle that's very important because one of the most difficult deficits is exactly the foreign debalancing that we can do through these services. But we will have a different position, the Croatian goods from the river and sea ports will carry Austrian and German railways and will increase our deficits in foreign trade and that is what is also dangerous because it is called destabilising macroeconomic sizes and macroeconomic situations. I hope that all of you who will raise your hand for this law will prevail in the interest of the battle for Croatia and Croatian development and that we will not support this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53272	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First, honourable representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53273	Your Honor, Mr. President, it is not the exact claims of an esteemed colleague that the law will not be passed at all because, according to Minister Calmeti, it has already been passed. For example, there is a historical conclusion between Minister Bozidar Kalmeta and the union on the implementation of Article 2. The law on the division of HH companies. So the law was passed to Minister Calmeta. This is going to get into the history of stupidity that a conclusion is made before the law is passed, I can't believe it as a lawyer that it's possible. And who works in that ministry to reach a conclusion and the law on law enforcement that hasn't been passed yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53274	The conclusion is that the minister of the sea, tourism, transport and development and trade unions negotiating a new collective contract for Croatian railways on 8 December 2005 reached a consensus on the final draft law on the division of the Croatian railway company d.o.o., and agreed on the next conclusion, therefore, on the achievement of the consensus, not on the law but on the final proposal of the law. That's not true! That's not true. Nothing. Nothing. I read to you, you weren't correcting the incorrect quote, but you, you weren't correcting the incorrect quote, I read it very accurately and correctly. Next, Mr. Racan's Consensus document does not exist any consensus document, there is a union signature, a union that the trade unions that negotiate and the minister must reach a consensus on 8 December 2005 on the final draft of the law, on the final proposal of the law and sign for the Transporter Union of Croatia's Marko Gaspar, for the Croatian Motorists' Union Nenad Mrga, the Croatian Railways Union Branko Kreš, the Infrastructure Union Nikola Rupočić, the Technical Survey Union of the Trains and Trains Drazen Drazen Drak and the Croatian Railways Union Ivan Forgač and, on the other hand, the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Bozidar Kalmet. So, gentlemen who object, it is obvious, that they have reached a consensus on the final proposal of the law not on the Law, Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53275	I was correcting the new thought. Point 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53276	You can't, wait a minute, there's no correcting my quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53277	No, you're getting into an argument about it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53278	I didn't engage in the debate, I drew your attention that you weren't correcting the wrong one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53279	I did!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53280	No, Mr. Kovacevic, you weren't correcting an incorrect quote. That's what you're saying, you're a bad politician and a bad lawyer, Mr. Racan, and don't throw it away. You've proven both of these qualities multiple times. And you're gonna throw it to me like this. You won't, Mr. Racan, you won't. Very well, yes, you've already proven yourself to be a good politician and a good lawyer, and you're not going to insult me. ... I'm not commenting, I'm giving an explanation why this isn't about correcting an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Second, Mr. Racan, and what I'm going to leave to the government, I'm not going to do anything to government what I need as president of the Parliament to give an explanation procedurally that's what I'm doing. Second correction by Honored Representative Nikola Sopčić. [[Not bad, not bad.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53281	Well, Mr. President, after all this, it looks like we didn't all get the same conclusion, actually the same conclusion. Because counterpart Linic said there was no consensus with the unions. Well, if you'll excuse me, I would have read this passage even though you Mr. President quoted it, but it won't hurt. Because apparently the colleagues from the SDP didn't get it. "The Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and trade unions negotiating the conclusion of a new collective contract for the Croatian Railways on 8 December 2005 reached a consensus on the final draft law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company". That's what it says, and it's all well signed. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53282	Thank you very much. These agreed and the following conclusion: Consensus reached on the final draft of the law and agreed and the following conclusion in the text as below... So they're guilty of reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Well, you've got all these texts in front of you, gentlemen, and it's just amazing that you're going to argue, that you're going to argue with what's written. You're contesting, contesting that it says here in 1990 even though it does. ... Well, that's it, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you believe more in something other than your own eyes. Zivko Nenadić, third correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53283	Here, Mr. President, in inspired inaccuracies, I'll only fix three. One is already well fixed, and this is how the unions did not give consent, and here's fellow Sopcic and you've corrected. So they agreed to the final draft of the law, and of course the trade unions specifically look further at and seek the protection of what they exist for. For employees. Thus, it does not exclude one another but complements one another. The second was, says Mr. Linic, that they proved something about HZ with the impellation. They didn't prove anything because that interpretation wasn't accepted. And a third.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53284	And third, thank you very much. Time. Fourth representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53285	Mr. President, I'm going to try a series of inaccuracies to fix two. Mr. Linic said, about: There can be no restructuring without modernization. That would have been good if he hadn't just done it the other way around. In 2000, the number of HZ employees, Matica 18 thousand 535, and independent companies 3 thousand 120 or 21 thousand 655. And in 2003 when he spent that reconstruction, then we got 14 thousand 905 on the queen but that's why 6 thousand 835 on dependent societies or a total of 21 thousand 740 or 84 workers more than there were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53286	The fifth correction by Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53287	Thank you very much. Mr. President, regardless of what you and the predecessors have already corrected, on several occasions it is definitely Mr. Linic's alleged that no deal has been reached with the trade unions I must read again what Mr. Linic said. He said it was incorrect. The unions are not in agreement with the Law on the division of the company HZ and do not accuse them of something they did not do. You're accusing them right now of not being able to read what they're signing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53288	And finally a respected representative of Walter Poropat, a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53289	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Linic said that the burden on our roads will be carried by foreign... [[Because of the presidential bell you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53290	Please repeat because it's nothing, it's nothing, it's all over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53291	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Linic said that the burden on our tracks would be carried by the foreigners and by the Germans and the Austrians. Given the competitiveness, I don't believe only the Germans and Austrians will transport it, but it will certainly be carried by foreigners.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53292	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. I'm sorry, I had a secretary of state signed up before that, Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It would've been 10 minutes if someone else had discussed all that, so it would've been 10 minutes of my time that I could use in one exam, and someone else took part in the debate. First of all, whether it's imposed or defined, I think it's less important. The obligation is defined. We can say it's a nicer expression than imposed, but it definitely exists. On the adoption of this Act, the explicit set out in Article 42 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The railroad law I'm also going to have to read, because I see that here it is necessary to read the laws this House has passed. Article 42, paragraph 1: The separation of the company of the Croatian Railways d.o.o. will be governed by special law until the application of this law. in several companies according to business areas and to regulate their legal position. The Croatian government has set out to define the law in due time and is still timely in the procedure and will, according to the law, be passed in due time. In a series of doubtful formulations that were presented in the further debate, I must refer to some of them presented by Mr Tadic, who says that this is the moment for this law, which is the moment when the attention of the Croatian public will be directed towards an extremely important and media interesting event. It's absolutely incorrect and trying to impose the thesis that this law is something bad. And that he's being brought up at a time when the public's attention is focused on something else because he's something bad. And I'm telling you that this law is nothing wrong and that that's how it confirms to you exactly this paper that you got, which literally speaks of the consensus that's signed. So we are proud, the Croatian government is proud that in such an important issue it has managed to reach a consensus with, over 99% of the union members. The rest would probably sign the same document if they were relevant but, as we know, there are many unions with 6 which include more than 99% of us negotiated and reached a consensus and it is best to deny that this law is something bad for the Croatian railways or that this law is something bad for the Croatian government or for the Croatian state. Yes, of course. Through this law, which it was meant to be, on the one hand, there was a commitment and on the other hand it took the skill and courage to formulate it in this form which would receive a social partners' concentration that, even in terms of labour and social rights, generally do not have a consensus. Even on this issue, which actually binds them because the unions who have a different view of their position and generally do not have a consensus on these issues and on this law have reached a consensus with each other and a consensus with the Croatian government in the proposal. The procedure for the adoption of this Act in writing brought 4 objections to the Trade and Social Council, of the 4 trade unions there were objections, the comments were more until the GSV session when, where both employers and trade unions had unanimously received this proposal, most of them were adopted. The remaining two specific conclusions were settled, and in the preamble, i.e. the introduction of this written material clearly unequivocally and resolutely states that on 8 December the issue was reached by a consensus. And the reason why the Croatian government did not adopt it before December 9th as a proposal, which was Friday, is precisely the fact that until the last moment we tried and eventually managed to reach a consensus on December 8th. After all, I have the impression that the only mistake of this paper is that it exists. It's the only mistake of this paper obviously for some political forces. And we're just proud that he exists and we're proud to point that out, because he's and he's going to be honest, I doubt we'll ever achieve again and we can achieve this kind of consensus between social partners who often and on labour rights issues have no consensus. So there's no time for this law to be laid down and there's nothing wrong with it. However, it is necessary in order to address itself in a separate system of internal weakness and the costs of the places that exist, in order to make sure that within the system itself is not to be dealt with and that the measures imposed outside are not considered administrative measures which actually wish to intervene in the system. The system must be separated to become competitive. Finally, that's the obligation. But I repeat, it's also a simple necessity for better functioning. In several allegations, Mr Linic, a respected representative of the Assembly, said that the law, that Croatian railways possess extremely high values of real estate and 7 and a half billion in their core capital. That's right. However, this law does not say that these values, real estate are sold, given or sold. In this law, they're said to be shared. The law bears the title of the Share Act. Therefore, they are shared, and ownership remains the property of the Republic of Croatia. The fear that it is divided into too many segments has been denied by the fact that they are still in one system, in the system of one roof society, so a combination between a clear division on the one hand and a certain connection on the other. There's no law passed four hours before. He is in this phase of four hours or I don't know how many hours before the debate ends, but months and months of work as you can see from the written material and the negotiations have been incorporated into this bill. So this is just the finale, and once it can be passed, and that law that is still ultimately de facto passed on time. It is also not true that this law of capacity, tow and everything that is in Croatian railways was placed on the market, all these elements and the implementation of market mechanisms were defined in 2003 by the Law on Railways. This law, which is in the function of that law and which is provided for in that law, indicates a further direction towards the implementation of this very important restructuring process. It doesn't disappear, it doesn't disappear, and I don't know what other elements were listed to disappear. Nothing disappears, everything remains owned by the state, but it will work in a more transparent way. By the way, when "Djuro Djakovic" was mentioned yesterday, a step forward was taken in the long-prepared definition of the contract between the government and, i.e. the Croatian Railway and the Đura Djakovica, but with the government guarantee of building 300 wagons for 255 million kuna. And there's one win for the railroads. By virtue of this law, the entry into force of this law, the Croatian government is taking over all long-term obligations that Croatian railways have, all long-term obligations. If this law enters into force, it will be passed today and as of 1.1, it will reflect that the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Finance takes over all long-term obligations of the Croatian Railways. And that helps Croatian railways at the moment. They amount to 4 million kuna in the long term. The vast majority of these obligations are already the obligation of the Ministry of Finance. The annual annuity in the payment of these long-term commitments is between 600, 700 million kuna. With this law and the rest of the small part, far the smallest part of these obligations will be taken directly by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore absolutely believe that this law is in the interest of, above all, further strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian Railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53294	Thank you. In 11,06, the time for the application for a 10-minute debate for a single debate on this agenda item expired. Now we're going to correct incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53295	It is incorrect to say Mr. Secretary that the government sent the law in time. Our Rules of Procedure clearly states that in the procedure the law comes in two readings. Croatian railways, the largest commercial society, the largest Croatian property, the greatest potential for Croatian development would deserve two readings. It just shows that the government hasn't done its job and that it's an incorrect statement. And also, when we talk about privatisation, by forming a roof society over these four societies, we need to know that in the Parliament we will discuss the privatisation of a roof society that has nothing but a share. The property will be in these basic societies...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53296	Thank you. Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec, second correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53297	So once again, I'm going to say that it's incorrect that there is no legal obligation for this law to be passed right now and by an emergency procedure. Namely, I'll read it again. On 3 March, the Law amending the Law on Railways was adopted where the obligation under Article 32 was to establish new sources of funds to be used for the restructuring of the Railways. These amendments to the law, that article was abolished. So it was a commitment, too. It was due to enter into force on 1 January 2005. The amendments extended the deadline on 1 January 2006. And it was an obligation under this law. And instead...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53298	Thank you. Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53299	And instead of being...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53300	Time's not up?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53301	When a titre, when a titre, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53302	When's he blinking?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53304	When's he blinking?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53305	Here's another sentence I'll say. And instead of going like that, because you haven't fulfilled your obligation to extend the application of the Law on Railways...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53306	He's blinking hard now. Honorable representative of Shima Lucin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53307	But you interrupted me in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53308	I didn't distract you. You said the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53309	It is an incorrect assumption that the government respects the laws, in fact, by that logic, that what the colleague said would not change the law for 2,000, that is, last year. She could have changed this one, too. And actually by insisting on it it's obvious that this is about something else, which is that at this time when the public's attention is to turn, I don't know, on some other topics, according to Christmas, bravo, you actually need to pass this law. And as for the second correction of the incorrect quote, I wouldn't actually call this consensual story a consensus as you insist on it all the time. It's a store. The government has offered a law to amend, in exchange for an amendment to the collective agreement. And who got what from that store I think time will tell. I think, and it seems to me that time will show that we've all lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53310	Fourth, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53311	Well, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Secretary of State is not a consensus, it's a consensus. Here's Shime for it. If you want to use Croatian, then you should have made a deal. Then you should have put the deal on. That's the first inaccuracy. A second incorrect quote. There's no consensus in your mind for the implementation of a division law that hasn't been passed yet, and you said exactly that this is a paper, not a document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53312	Dear Representative Josip Leko, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53313	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Secretary of State incorrectly referred to the Law on Railways, quoting only one provision. So it cannot be called upon to the whole law, for the meaning of the law is not only in one provision of his. So already, counterpart Zgrebec and counterpart Slavko Linic said there were other provisions of the law that said the modernisation and restructuring of the railway had not been done. This is a formalist approach to the Law on Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53314	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53315	It's not exactly what the secretary of state says, that there's something wrong with the proposed law here. The point is that the proposed law is all bad, and the worst part is that you send to the market parts of HH that are unprepared for the market, in which 7.5 thousand workers, who will probably lose their jobs when they come to that market, will remain on the street. It's seven and a half thousand workers times four family members, it's 30,000 mouths that will end without bread. You've done it and it's in this law the worst.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53316	Dear representative Milanka Opačić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53317	I am correcting Mr. Breglec's incorrect claim that the government is proud to have reached a consensus with the unions over this law. If you've reached a consensus on a law like this, you can't be proud, because it's about manipulation with the union's top at the expense of the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53318	I had this very interesting proposal from Pupovac, but I can't make it public about a club president, but... Dear Representative Tonci Tadic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53319	I'm correcting Mr. Secretary of State's claim that the government's intention has nothing to do with this time. Definitely there is, because then you wouldn't be going to an emergency procedure right now in the advent while our warrior is in the Hague courtroom. This, in addition, the second extension, has nothing to do with European legislation but has to do with the agreement that you have concluded with the World Bank, and why that is so will the people ask you in the next elections. What about the daughters' companies? What about the local stripes? What about the right of HH to drive along railways in neighbouring EU countries and non-EU countries? There's no letter on this paper, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53320	Order! Dear Representative Željko Antešić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53321	Thank you very much. Here's a few times already... I think it's necessary to point out one more time. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Secretary of State has repeated several times that the law is good because a consensus of social partners has been reached. That's incorrect. It is true that the law is extremely bad and with very serious consequences for the Croatian railway and for Croatian interests as a whole, and this so-called. The consensus serves only to cover it up and to cover up political trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53322	And the club of IDS representatives, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53323	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Like this, until 31 December 2005 from the Croatian... The total of 638 workers will leave Croatian railways by 31 December 2005 with a clear severance of 150 thousand to 200 thousand kuna. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] If a pensioner leaves in the last days of the year then his severance payment will enter the basics for the calculation of the pension. Compensation is clearly paid by other THT companies up to 340 thousand, HEP up to 117 thousand, Adris up to 335, Ministry of Defence 50 to 100 thousand kuna, managers assume they get 3 to 4 times more, and even in those uninvited or unaccounted for by the losing societies, parliamentary representatives clearly get nothing, and thus managers in these companies I think they should publicly subscribe to the MPs. I don't know what the severance on HRT is, but I repeat, there are 150 to 200 thousand kuna in Croatia. But I'm also interested in what sort of severance boards are like. I agree, all these workers would probably rather stay at work than go with that severance to one uncertainty. But let me go back to the law. Everyone's talking about the modern railway, everyone's talking about the successful railway, but we're afraid that in some way what's going on here is what's going on here and it's all about the privatisation of that railroad or the parts of that railroad. During June 2005 The government made a decision on privatisation under the so-called so-called "privatisation". Dependent societies, and on the railway, we know this 17 such companies whose directors clearly 100% I am sure, have managerial contracts and all other benefits which should also be abolished and led them under the agent regime. On page 2 of this argument, it is literally said that by separating the company HZ d.o.o. in smaller companies in business areas, entities are created capable of accepting market conditions that impose the need to open and liberalise the access of other entities to the rail transport market. So be this under the liberalisation of the access of other railway entities, which is going to market, and the next day or the day after and privatisation. So after HT, after the INA, soon Croatia's insurance, before the banks, will also come in line for the railways. With Croatian insurance, we have already given the church 25% of its value or 65m euros. Which part is likely to be privatized? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So neither that passenger nor the building of the infrastructure, but only what is clearly profitable, and that is the only freight traffic. This traffic is neat in this country, increasing from year to year, but without saying that as Mr. Linic said the Rijeka port would once again become what it was until the 90s of rail traffic unfortunately will be nothing. We in one word at the IDS club express concerns with one such possibility, but the real question is why should I now be opposed to the fact that, as it is suggested here, six union centres are constantly suggesting, what to call it, a government concept. And here, in this conclusion of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, it is said among other things, he has particularly met the board members that it did not go into the process of passing this law without agreeing with the social partners and that the proposal supported six unions representing 99% of the employees, or that consensus was reached, here consensus, with the social partners. However, I dare say that this committee's position is not to say falsified, but simply distorted in relation to the conclusions we just received. What exactly is spoken of in these conclusions? First, this should be quoted and read: Both parties agree that the collective agreement, Part 1, should a general part of the contract be incorporated into a provision if one of the 4 companies that will form and appear after the division of HH, and if, at the same time, there is a shortage of workers in one of those 4 companies, the company that is needed for workers will give priority to the employment of workers who are redundant if they meet the prescribed conditions. The second conclusion, in order to implement the Law on the division of the company HZ, Croatian Railways d.o.o., and before the proposal for a decision by the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 2 of the trade unions with the right to collective bargaining on HZ, will be included in the agreement which company workers, HZ, etc., become workers of companies. So, gentlemen, very simple. Consensus not reached. This is not about the law at all, but about the safety of the job on the Croatian railway. That's actually the point. Secondly, at a time of rationalising the need for workers who will be jobless will hardly be in place in the company. Thirdly, I'm glad to have reached one consensus, but I claim that these are the conclusions, to be free, enough, enough, to be so shallow. When the trade unions accepted the principle of banning protests in St. Mark's Square, we were also open to IDS against such union bargaining, and I believe that this bill should be against because something similar only happens when the railways are in the process. I think in the end, employees will regret this law and these unions. I could now quote some articles, specifically this 3rd, where we are sort of conducting certain rights from the Parliament to the Croatian government, which can now be opened alone, apart from anyone, with the enormous property of the Croatian Railways, but I will ask myself, as well as Tonci Tadic, what about these local railways. Especially with those closed systems such as Istria where communication with, let's say, Zagreb, Rijeka does not matter to whom you must exclusively and only and only so can you do through Slovenia. That railroad just dies. Who's gonna take care of, say, that railroad? Today, let's say the privatization of the railroad or the tossing of the railways, tomorrow the Adriatic, and the question really arises what will finally and what will this country have tomorrow. I'm glad it's mentioned here that long-term commitments are being made, that's good. Unfortunately, however, it does not say anywhere in this law to know how this matter will be regulated. And what is certainly a huge shame that this law is not being discussed in two readings, regardless of what is probably the last day of the session. I think even at an extraordinary session of the Parliament, there would be room for such an important matter, which depends on the existence of nearly 20,000 people to debate parliamentary representatives and that there is indeed a consensus with the union partners. Having, well, all of this in mind, given that there is, and I would say an attempt to fool us with these conclusions, although I am personally pleased to have a consensus on something, I do not think it is possible to accept the terms of the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53324	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivo Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53325	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Cain's claim that this law is not agreed with the trade unions of the Croatian Railways. It is from the conclusions we received in paragraph 2 that "for the purpose of implementing the Law on the division of Croatian Railways companies, and before the decision of the Minister of the Sea, Development and Tourism, the Government will negotiate with the trade unions on their status". Therefore, it is clear from the very conclusion that the trade unions are in agreement with the implementation of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53326	Thank you. We're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53327	Thank you very much. The legal proposal is totally unacceptable and it is unacceptable because it is intended to achieve it, it is unacceptable because it wants to achieve what it wants to achieve and is unacceptable because of how it is written. So he's completely uneducated and because of this urgency, he's actually offensive to the Parliament, and everything is unnecessarily unnecessary. What does the Law want to accomplish, and why is this unacceptable? The law divides HZ into 4 companies. It is divided into 4 companies to be placed on the market, and it is written in an explanation. In its explanation, it says, the separation of HH is created by entities capable of accepting market conditions. That's mostly incorrect. Someone is capable of accepting market conditions if they are simply qualified, if they are competitive, if they are sufficiently developed. And by taking someone apart, you didn't make him capable of accepting market conditions. So what it says in the explanation is one delusion, one untrue, one flossula that I don't know who needs it because this isn't about some irrelevant or minor law or law. This is about the largest company owned by the Republic of Croatia. The fate of this society concerns thousands and thousands of people and members of their families. So when such a law is given in the procedure, then it is not necessary to serve such flossules, that only separation will create entities capable of competition. It's still said in the explanation. Such an arrangement enables non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure, potential railway operators on a liberalised transport market. Now let's translate that into one understandable language so that the people who follow this debate understand what this sentence is about. The liberalised transport market, that is the market on which all operators, domestic and foreign operators can act. It's fate waiting for us. Who's gonna take passengers? Who's gonna transport the goods? It doesn't have to be a domestic operator, it could be any one. The one who gets the concession. What's the concession? The one who's the most qualified, who's the best. What do potential railway operators signify? That's you. These are Hungarian railways, Austrian railways, German railways, Slovenian railways, perhaps tomorrow Serbian or railways. Now, what does non-discriminatory approach mean? This means that the Croatian state will no longer be able to help any of these companies in any way. It won't be possible because it's against competition laws, and we have laws on that. So once we hand them over to the market, it's over, how do they manage, and how can they manage? They will do just as We have prepared them for the market, and how have We prepared them? We didn't prepare them at all. They've got out-of-date cars, they've got out-of-date locomotives, they just can't survive on that market. It's like sending soldiers into battle, and you didn't get him a helmet, you didn't get him a vest, he's got an old gun, he doesn't have a proper bullet, and you send him into battle. What's going to happen to you with a soldier like that? He's going to die because he can't fight a more equipped soldier who's got a full army gear and who's just ready for that battle. Now, you HZ, these four societies are sending unprepared men into that battle. It's very irresponsible, it's irresponsible, first of all, to these people. They're not few, you know, there's not 200 of them, so now the government is going to do something, so 200 people are going to take care of it, so 200 people won't be out of a job. There are only 7 and a half thousand of them in these two companies that you plan to establish cargo transfer and tow trains. They're seven and a half thousand times four family members, I said that's 30,000 people. What will happen to these people when their companies are completely unprepared and unprepared to enter a liberalised market? Their companies will not get the job of transporting passengers, transporting freight, hauling trains. No, others will get them, or they'll just be more qualified. So where are they gonna get a job with 27 or 33-year-old cars? He simply won't be able to compete in these competitions. What's going to happen to these people? Their companies will be fired as a surplus, they will remain my gentlemen on the street, they will be left without bread, they and their families. There's no one against the division of HH, but HH was to be prepared first, it was to be modernised, so that's what we used to say in our interpretation. Why are we yelling at each other like that? Don't delay the modernisation of the railroads. You're doing a dangerous thing. You're playing with the fates of thousands of people. Let's do this first modernize, prepare for the market as the INA prepared for the market, and then it could go to that market, so it could achieve a good price when parts of the INA were sold. Those on the market have absolutely no chance. You send them into ruin by this law. You're calling for a deal, a consensus with the unions, so what does it say? In this respect, it states in paragraph 1 that if the excess workers appear in one of these companies, and in the other, the shortfall that those who have a deficiency will receive this surplus, that is to say, they will have an advantage in employment if they meet the prescribed conditions. Please give me a word of the company where you wrote in the analysis that even predicts that there might be a deficit, so everyone will have a surplus, no one will have a deficit. And what does the second point of that contract say? The great union will be involved in the bargaining that some of them, and now the union will object which of them become employees of companies if they do not. So only for some will work be secured, the union will include negotiating which and that is all the protection of workers in this liberalisation that you send them to. It's signed by some leaders, yes, they can't get you fired by being union leaders. By being union leaders they will remain in some of these companies employed absolutely certainly, the workers will not, not because these leaders are trade union bad, not because, but because these companies will not be able to survive. People of God you send into the legal procedure a law in which such a great financial value, a huge financial value of 7 and a half billion kuna, may be so much in real estate. All decisions will be made by the government. So take a look at the INA Act, the privatisation of the INA, and see how pedantic it is, what the role of the Parliament is on that day. Well, the Parliament's been controlling this procedure the whole time. You are now sending a proposal, it will all be the government, the government will share the property, it will set the price, it will determine the underlying capital, all of it will be done without any control of the Parliament, it is on the 5.6 articles here, I'm sorry, I have to use that term screwed up and you sent it to the Parliament about a company that is the largest in the Republic of Croatia. It is, I'm sorry, unserious, it is offensive to the Parliament, it is offensive to the Croatian public that this Parliament represents.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53328	Thank you very much. We're going on, we have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ivo Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53329	I am correcting Mr. Trazic's allegations that this law is offensive. I think it is precisely his debate that is offensive to 99 members of the Croatian Railway Workers' Union, including union leaders because he thinks they are not capable of the market, I believe that the Croatian Government has opted for a liberal market along with the Croatian Railways, that these people with the Croatian Railways administration are able to conduct the liberalisation of Croatian railways on the liberal market, not on the conducting market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53330	Second correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53331	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Stazic except that he said the law is offensive, he said the law is unacceptable. Well, fellow Stazic, the law is acceptable especially if it is acceptable to a team of 7 and a half thousand employees who have their representatives in the union and whose representatives have signed and reached a consensus on the final proposal of this Law. So, if he is acceptable to them, then it is acceptable for all of us, and as far as insult is concerned, your attitude speaks sufficiently of who has offended. These concessions are offensive to this Parliament and also to the Croatian public, and as far as the market's chances are concerned, we really believe that there are capable people in the Croatian Railways who will know how to get rid of the market, therefore, they will certainly know and manage the Croatian railways market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53332	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53333	Mr. President, my colleague Stazic called the government's explanation for this bill to a mere flossule. That's not true. The law is well-founded, all it has to do is read the argument, it's well-prepared and it's consistent with the unions, and it represents 99% of those 7 and a half thousand workers. I understand your disappointment with this agreement between the union and the ministry, it's quite clear to me, but a flosscul could be called this complete debate of yours before the government's argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53334	The fourth respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53335	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the incorrect quote from Mr. Stazic that you can't beat with old guns and bad equipment. Mr. Stazic, in the Homeland War, we proved it, but you're the Homeland War, so you forget. However, I have a feeling that you were called Mrs. Ankica Lepoy again for a long morning conversation this morning. I have to say, you're a good spokeswoman, I just didn't know he knew about the railroads.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53336	Velimir Dances next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53337	It is an incorrect quote by Mr. Stazic, quoting "you are calling for some consensus that some union leaders have signed". It's completely incorrect because it's not a consensus, it's a consensus on the final bill reached by the unions along with the ministry. And I don't see why it would be offensive to this law that's been written, which is why you said that some law got in the way because of rubbing something I'll only remember how you screwed up the amendments to the Constitution three years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53338	And the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53339	A colleague has just corrected what I intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53340	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53341	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! First, I need to clarify why I said that this law even between Minister Calmeta and the union has a historical meaning. It is related to point 2, i.e. preamble and point 1.o.k. but point 2 states: "for the purpose of implementing the law on the division of a company". Therefore, legally speaking, let's be aware he is in point 2 zero because of the fact that the law has not yet been passed. It can be talked about the final proposal that there is an agreement, it can be talked about part of a collective contract, but this part is already being prejudged. But point 2 is nothing, it's useless because the law has not yet been passed or entered into force. And if it is seen when it comes into force if it is adopted, it is said to the article: "This law comes into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal." So let's get this straight first. So point 2 of the conclusion has no legal force and at this point it's useless. How will it be when the law is passed? But it's obvious that the 8th consent with the unions was made, the 12th was signed. So today it's 15, point 2, so I'm legally speaking, there's no legal force. It's that variant of "Grey in the forest and rye here and it wants to be roasted." Now let's go to one very important part. There have been disagreements and disagreements with which this law is aligned. I think it is only indisputable here that this law is in line with the current compensation of Croatia's practice of conversion and privatisation. It's a sure thing. Because this isn't the first case that we've broken big systems, public companies into smaller systems, and then totally destroyed them. It is unfortunately an experience from the translation and privatisation of the Croatian people, but we will discuss it when our Law on the Completion of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation comes to the agenda. But why do we have to be deeply concerned here? We have to be deeply concerned because in this meeting of the Parliament we are well changing the constitutional principle of the parliamentary system in Croatia because this law is also when we see the provisions, it is the offering that Croatia is de facto becoming an office system. Why do I say that? Because in this session of Parliament, we have brought over 83% of the laws into emergency proceedings on the one hand. On the other hand, in this assembly, the Government has adopted a huge number of regulations with legal force and this final bill is being traced because other than the first article, what and how everything else is being given to the Government. So that's clear proof of the office system. You admitted it to me or not to admit it but. And what else is this evidence? We have to be aware, as a lawyer, I'm ashamed of what laws we bring here. We must be aware that the generation of legal expressions and what is now done will not be forgiven by this legislative stampede. They won't forgive us for that part, because we're getting through an emergency procedure of laws that are not only not emulsified but are legally inaccurate. They provide various doubles, three interpretations and various machinations, malversions, in some we even provide provisions that give fertile soil for corruption. And that's the biggest problem in all of this, and that's why the HSP Club will soon submit one interpretation to this part that we ourselves are endangering legal certainty in the country, endangering the legal order, endangering the principle of legality, the principle of rule of law. That's what, look, talk to the lawyers, talk to the judges, talk to the prominent legal experts, and everyone will tell you that part. I mean, the situation is that we have to take care of it. This has long been pointed out, mainly in this part of the European Union's accession and the adoption of laws. You saw for yourself the laws we had, that they were raw translations, that we got laws with seven articles, and then there's no ten, so it goes to Articles 20 and 23. So all of this once again indicates that this law can't really be supported because it's fast. He's really fast and so that I can be incomprehensible of harmful consequences because there's no guarantee or anything else about how and how it's going to be carried out. That's what we've had in most laws so far. All that matters is that this process will be made possible by what the government says, what the minister says and we're just here to say, to empower the government, so you do, you know, you can do anything. So all I'm asking is for the promoter to tell me if there's any idea who's gonna buy the main station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53342	Who's gonna buy it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53343	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53344	The main station?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53345	Yes, the main station in Zagreb who will buy because according to this is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53346	There's this song, "Mom goes from station, dia, dia, de." Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53347	Mr. President, a colleague of Kovacevic, who is our famous Croatian linguist, said it turns out that the conclusion between union representatives and Minister Kalmeta turns out to be that the law has already been passed. A colleague, Kovacevic, should only be read and it says here: "Achieved consensus on the final proposal of the law." This is where the final bill is mentioned. That means the law hasn't been passed yet. It just needs to be read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53348	And another Frano Matušić correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53349	Mr. President, thank you. A colleague, Kovacevic, said we were introducing an office system. We're not introducing a colleague. We only empower the government according to our powers that we have in the Croatian Parliament. Don't be afraid of us introducing the office system. As for the threat of legal certainty, also this Croatian Parliament does not endanger legal certainty. On the contrary, it provides legal certainty by adopting new laws and all that we have on the agenda every day. And third, as far as the damage is concerned, you said it would cause damage to such a law, enforcement, etc. No, this law certainly won't cause any damage. The damage was caused, for example, by the purchase of spare parts of a billion kuna signed by the former government without a public tender through the mediator. You know, these are concrete damages to the Croatian railways. When you sign a contract on a billion kuna and more for spare parts and without a public tender and through a mediator, then it is quite clear what damage it is and what it is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53350	Thank you very much. Replica's respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53351	Well, colleague Kovacevic, I agree with you that despite the fact that we have a parliamentary system, we often pass such laws as if we have an office system. So what do you say on this example? There, we refuse to control the future privatisation of Croatian railways, transfer all powers and responsibilities formally to the government. So, the government is going to make all the necessary decisions, the government is going to take our out-of-date railroad, we've heard here with a car park almost 30 years old, liberalize the market, and there's going to be strangers who are actually going to destroy the competitiveness of our railroad that we haven't made sure is competitive. However, what will happen? The government won't be responsible, it won't be responsible, this House will be responsible, we often hear from the government's representatives you've passed those laws, you've accepted the budget and there's no money in the budget, so we'll be responsible if we pass such a law. I believe the parliament majority will accept this law but we will all be responsible for Kovacevic, and not for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53352	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić. ... How? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53353	Thank you very much, I am not and I am not glad that I am not Frano Matušić, I am Pero Kovacevic, and that is why I spoke and I agree with you that we must be aware of what responsibility we accept by adopting these laws. For in the end the government will say what you will, and you have brought it. Right? That's what he'll say. So whatever you will have brought it, we have to act, according to the laws of the Croatian Parliament. Because that's what you made us do. That's the whole problem. Well, we're in the office system, dear fellow, you can interpret it one way or another, whether it's empowering the government, but the parliamentary system doesn't give authority to the government of that nature. The parliamentary system controls the government's work, and that's the whole problem and we really are in the legislative stampede. The stampede law when you take the fact that 83% of the law has been passed in this assembly by an urgent procedure. As we do, the government's legislation offices, as others do, are better off not speaking. But obviously we must be deeply concerned because we will remain recorded in history as the Parliament that caused the assembly of the Parliament, which caused the legislative stampede and generations and generations will have to suffer, correct, because they will not have to correct as they could not privatise and convert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53354	Thank you. It's good, just that, I think, through further discussion, we're going to figure out this dilemma whether it's an office system or not, I'm not saying that you said it, because there was recently a controversy on television where one of them used the office system to replace it with the office. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53355	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Today we are discussing the proposal of the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company d.o.o. with the final draft law on the Croatian Government's proposal included in the agenda according to the urgent procedure. I have already proposed that the government go to the emergency procedure talking about the government's determination to make real positive changes in the Croatian railways as soon as possible. Therefore, the urgency of the procedure should be seen from a positive point of view because it is not important for the law to be passed if partners participated in the draft itself, and in this case it is the unions of railways and GSV, and as we know that they participated in this case and gave a positive opinion to the trade unions as we have seen here today. So the urgency of passing this law is more than good and justifiable. We must also keep in mind that Croatia has launched activities by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union in 2001 to bring domestic legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The Law on Railways, which established the basis for the further process of harmonisation of legislation, namely the restructuring of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia, on the principle of separation of railway infrastructure from rail transport, and the liberalisation of the railway transport market. The financial consolidation and restructuring of railways for the period 1998 to 2002 was proposed with the aim of creating a modern and efficient railway transport company and reducing the financial burden on the state budget. The separation of infrastructure operations from transport and further separation of independent activities in the new company Daughters enables private sector to be involved in these processes. Today, within the Croatian railway system, 17 dependent companies are operating in 100% or majority HZ ownership. We are aware that in the period from 2000 to 2003 there was a trend in the reduction of HH workers in the queen but at the same time the trend of increasing the number of workers... companies that are HZ Daughters, which actually created minor effects of the total reduction of workers in the railway system and almost no savings in labour costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, the reduction in the number of workers was mainly related to regular retirement or departures with very stimulating severances. We can prove this very easily because the number of workers in 2000 is clearly 31. 12 in HZ in the queen was 18,535 and the number of workers 31. 12th of the same year in subsidiaries 3.120 or total number of workers 21.655, and in 2003 31. 12. in HZ the truth in the queen God reduced the number of workers to 14.905 but for the same it increased in HZ dependent societies to 6,835 or a total of 21,740 employees had 31. 12. In 2003, which says that the number of HZ workers has been formally reduced, but the number of workers in dependent societies has really increased, and that the total number of employees has really increased by 85 employees. Although it's obvious... The problems of extra workers in the railway system due to the very complexness of the railway, which continues to rely to the greatest extent on human factor in the business process itself, and express the presence of the social aspect, we must take care of a highly unsatisfactory age and education structure where more than 60% of employees are over 36 years old and only 10% of employees have education more than medium-sized professional training. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Due to apparent errors in the business policy of HZ in the period 2000 to 2003, the government was forced to take over in early 2004 the payments made to HZ loans used in 2002 and 2003 and the financing of the needs for crafts and not for liquid liquidity totalling 1.5 billion. It is a short-term loan of 600 million, which was taken over by the Ministry of Finance in 2003, but the budget was budgeted for 2006 and an additional two short-term loans of 500 and 400 million kuna, used in 2003 and taken over in 2004. In mid-2004, the budget rebalance in favour of HZ provided an additional billion and 214 million with already a billion 575 pre-planned funds in the budget or a total budget expenditure planned at the divisions and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and the Ministry of Finance totaled just over 4.7 billion kuna. In financial terms, the previous 2000-2003 period was marked by a particularly credit expansion of HH and the financing of current business costs instead of investments. So there's no word that it's been implemented before in a way that's invested in investments. There was very little investment in investments, but therefore costs and debts were incurred for current business. It can be concluded from the previous point of view that, in the period up to 2003, the short-term HHB’s liabilities with state guarantees are a real vision of financial stability. In fact, the most expensive methods of financial overrides were implemented, with the cost of payment including high interest being transferred to the state and delayed for the future period. During 2004 and 2005, there were no new HH credit obligations in order to maintain current liquidity or new state guarantees were issued in favour of HH. The proposed Law regulates the basic principles of the division of the Croatian railway company d.o.o. 4 independent companies with limited liability of private activities. This is also the management, maintenance and construction of railway infrastructure, transport of passengers, transport of freight and draw trains. The law also establishes a roof company which manages the ownership stakes of newly established companies. The only owner of the roof society is the Republic of Croatia. The transformation process is carried out by adopting a decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the division of assets. After the distribution of assets, the Government will establish its decisions by 30 June 2006 companies which will determine the value of the underlying capital, the subject-matter, the company's bodies and the way they are appointed and the way of achieving the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the congregations of companies. This is how new companies created on the day of enrolment in the court register become legal followers of the Croatian railway company in relation to the property, rights and obligations taken over, and the company is deleted from the court register. The law regulates the transitional period from the date of application of the railway law to the establishment of new companies and their registration in the court register. With the new structure of railways in four independent societies, there are all conditions to achieve the objectives set out. To enable more rational operations within the existing rail system, more efficient management of material and human resources and increasing their own transport revenues. I think it's a good thing that this year has come up with a bill of this law, and I'm going to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53356	Thank you very much. We have 3, 4 replicas and 4 corrections. The first is for the replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. But we warn that in order for the Rules of Procedure, the corrections go first and then the replicas. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My dear colleague, you said the government showed determination by coming with this bill to the Croatian Parliament. In 8 days, it will be exactly two years since this government in Parliament has been confirmed and has indeed been gathering courage for this determination for two years. The government hastily involved this law and delivered it to Parliament by an urgent procedure. I believe that at a telephone session, the government will make decisions on the establishment of the companies that the law provides and that the government will be determined to deploy 7 and a half billion kunas in commercial societies and the same decision to deploy HZ workers in these companies, as so far as this has been done, and we are giving such powers to the Government. I also remind and agree with the government's determination when it comes to the HH which has decidedly interrupted every restructuring project of the Croatian Railways as a prerequisite and prepares for their first separation and later privatisation. This is a series of determinations which ended this Law and in the following year probably by the Privatisation Act these 3 sectors that the law suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53358	Thank you. Answer Mr. Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We can say very briefly. For the past two years, counterpart Lesar, the Croatian government, has really had its hands full to coordinate and repay all those loans that the government has borrowed. I can tell you that because you have that information, too, so you can check it out. What I'm saying is that the loans were raised in terms of 600, 500, 400 million, a total of 1 and a half billion were raised for liquid liquidity and for overcoming current liabilities, and it wasn't invested in any new infrastructure. It also took the government no courage to get this together to give this law, but I think it gave it the right time to start already in the new year with a new structure that has every chance of success, to achieve all its goals. With this law, however, the Croatian government has given one possibility to adapt to it in an objective time period of 6 months, and I think it will fully justify everything that has been proposed by this law so far. That's why I think it's really good that we did it. It doesn't matter that much if it's discussed in two days. I think it's more important how much time is spent talking to the unions. We can't agree with that right now if they didn't sign the unions, then they'd agree that it's not right that the unions didn't sign it, and now that they've signed it, we're obviously sorry for some of them for signing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53360	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53361	My colleague Sockovic showed satisfaction with the speed of the proposal and assessed the government's great success. I would like to say very clearly that tomorrow when we witness a tragedy on the railway and Croatian development because of this truly unacceptable proposal and when the Government very determinedly determines that the responsibility of the Parliament is then we from the SDP will very clearly say: Gentlemen, you knew what you were bringing. Because the debates and the entire opposition are simply open, but the whole opposition warns you that this is not a good law for Croatian railways. That it endangers more than 7,000 direct employees on the railroad. And we won't be able to accept the argument that you didn't know what you were doing because the entire opposition was warning you. And that's what we need to know. It's simply unacceptable behavior for us in the Parliament. What I'm trying to say, as you can see, the government's representative proudly says, "Well, it's on the unions," they're guilty, they agreed. They're guilty, unions, not the Croatian government. That's what the government's representative is yelling at right now. That's what we won't accept. We still don't consider unions the ones responsible for this proposal as much as the promoter proudly turns out to be guilty too. So unlike that, what we want to say in the Croatian Parliament, you are aware of what you are bringing. The entire opposition warns you that you're passing a bad law, but you keep trying to push it through. Persistent. Conscious of the fact that part of the argument is still standing. Unfortunately, there's no documents, no papers, no figures so we can have an argumentative conversation. Some of us have this information because they looked at the archives that have existed since 2003 in this Croatian Assembly. Part of you isn't. He believes blindly. It won't justify your present ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53362	Thank you. Mr. Sockovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53363	Thank you very much. Well, I would say to Mr. Linic, since he was also the man who was the most in charge, the most responsible one in the last period of last government. And I can say myself that I'm proud to protect what the government has proposed because I think it's about time something really serious was done. Because what Mr. Linic you called restructuring I've told you nicely in numbers. You have removed 3,000 and several workers from the HZ queen, thrown into new societies, dumped into new societies that are also HDZ's daughters, which are funded from the same source, and then you called it restructuring and came out with the data that you reduced the number of employees on the Croatian railways, which is not true. You can tell from the data that there are actually 84 employees more. The second thing was the borrowings in 2003 and 2002, which all planned to be budget transfers in 2004 and welcomed this government that it must simply make those payments to which they were in debt before the Railways and had guarantees from the Croatian Government. I won't talk about others as much as it is given to other guarantee companies, starting with shipbuilding, shipyards and all others, but I don't think it makes any sense today to say that what's signed isn't signed. That you can tell people today that what the union leaders signed is what the gentleman says they're some kind of leaders. No, these are the gentlemen of the people who were chosen by their unions, who know what they were talking about. They've been negotiating for months, and they've agreed. So I don't think it makes any real sense when it comes to you, when it comes to Union support, it's okay for you. If the union has decided, and he's decided on the basis of certain real data to sign such an agreement, then you're saying it's wrong. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53364	Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53365	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Sočković, spoke about the mother of dependent societies, but did not say the following. The former government has just separated Croatian railways into queens and dependent societies with the intention of privatising them. It's just a former government. So they divided into a queen with 14 thousand people and other societies seven and a half thousand crazy with the intention of these same societies privatizing. This is just another step of what the former government started. By what principle? By the same principle they were made with Croatian roads. Which the former government made in early January 2001. So on the same principle, now in this final draft of the law goes into further procedure, privatisation as you did in early January 2001. Today you are talking about the damages, my colleague Linic, in 2003 you borrowed from the current liquidity Croatian railways for 2 and a half billion kuna. And of course that awaited the next rule in 2004 which had to return what you did and with which you actually drowned the Croatian railways. You have drowned Croatian railways with these loans, short-term loans from liquid liquidity. Let's not talk about getting spare parts without a competition. We have to go back to that again. I think that the Croatian public is absolutely clear about what the principles are, what approach, as far as you're concerned, are really at stake here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53366	Answer, Mr. Representative Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53367	Thank you very much, fellow Matusic. And we can only say two things. When the past government proposed with 17 dependent companies a new reorganisation on the railways it was correct. And the unions weren't against it, and it was all okay. When the new government proposed with four independent societies, when it was able to reach agreements with its partners and when it was shown here, which says black on white signed then it's not right, then it'll be malts at the end of the world if it goes through. Privatisation, you were the first to enter the situation to predict both opportunities and privatisations. And after all, the purpose of everything that happens in Croatia as well as in all other companies is that someone on the market is not the end of the world. Finally, in order to be competitive and to be able to enter Europe with our own product, we must first of all go to the market and learn to work on the market because many have stayed in state-owned enterprises for years and have not developed enough to survive on the market. Be sure that the Croatian government will make sure that they are prepared, that they can survive on the market, that they will survive on what you can see for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53368	And another replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53369	I deliberately changed the correction to a replica so that Mr. Colon could respond because I was not aiming at anything else. But you see, we're politicians here, some of us are longer, some of us are less in the Parliament, and I really don't understand this claim from you that the government is showing determination because this puts in an emergency procedure the final day of the Parliament's meeting this year, the last point, a few hours before the vote. Everyone's asking a question, we're talking about a problem that we all want to solve. It's about 7,000 workers, who told me they didn't say multiply it with the family, some 30,000 people depend on it. Why fast after two years? That's a logical question. What's the courage here? What's the courage besides having a baby in my house to suspect something's going to go wrong? Nothing else, no courage. The unions are mentioned. It's not the unions who write the laws, nor the ones who bring it. Here is the government's proposal, and the Croatian Parliament will vote or will not vote the laws. We make laws, and unions fight for workers' rights and let's not throw them on their backs if we do stupid things here and pass a law that will ruin either 7,000 people or 30,000 people, if we add up their families. It's our fault. But not all of us. There is no collective responsibility here, gentlemen, but only those who vote for such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53370	Answer, Mr. Representative Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53371	Thank you very much. I'd just like to meet my colleague first of all that this is the last day of the session this year. But we still have half a term of four years left. So neither is the last day, nor is today any day of "D." But I'd like to remind you of that, exactly something else that we mentioned yesterday that it was really literally the last day of the Parliament's meeting in which one other government passed the Law on the Council of the HRT and that last day of its term of office. So after four years, the last day, the last point. Therefore, we cannot compare that today is no day "D" because the mandate is only in the middle. That's how much for the term of office. As for the unions that have been mentioned again. No one here wants to put it on their backs. The responsibility will be borne by those who pass the law, the responsibility will be borne by those who vote. Thus, no one puts any responsibility on the back of a worker. On the contrary, over a period of more than half a year, they have been successfully discussed and negotiated and agreed on what means to implement the restructuring of railways that you yourself know must be carried out and you know for yourself that there are extra workers as well as everywhere and you know that they must be taken care of in a certain way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53372	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53373	He says that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is now the last day of the session under this constitutional deadline in 2005 meant the government's determination. It doesn't mean the government's determination, it means the government's mess because it hasn't acted by law in two years. It extended the period of application of this law a year ago, so neither in 2004 nor in 2004 did it carry out its duty, which is because the law was due to enter into force from 1 January 2005, it does so two years later and on the last day of the session. We got that law here a day or two ago for discussion. And another government official says they are proud of what they have done, and I say they can really be proud of what will have a negative impact on Croatia's economic development in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53374	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53375	A respected colleague said that the very fact that this law goes according to an urgent procedure speaks of the government's determination. A colleague does not say this about the government's determination, it speaks of the government's indiscretion. The law was produced to the government the day before yesterday,...the updated agenda, i.e. The agenda was updated yesterday, and we're discussing it today. A government that makes it so easy and really easy to suggest solutions that it is not at all aware of, because it is so easy to do, what consequences it will have, not that it is determined but simply undecided and irresponsible. Me and my colleagues from the party, and apparently from the opposition, they won't want to be part of that unseriousness and that irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53376	The government's recklessness and irresponsibility is not prohibited by the Rules of Procedure, but it is forbidden to correct something that is no correction, is it? That's the point. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53377	Here I am correcting the assumption that the urgency of law-making is justified. Not that she's inexcusable, not that she's not justified. She's just incredibly inadmissible and arrogant and irresponsible. This law has been adopted by the government's telephone session. At a phone session. It's about the most important company in the world. The agenda was updated yesterday. Today is an emergency procedure, fast, quick, quick about it to discuss it quickly, quickly, quickly, to bring it quickly, quickly, quickly. For two days, you've been cramming people here...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53378	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53379	I'm correcting that urgency is justified and don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53380	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53381	I'm correcting that urgency is justified because it's not justified and don't interrupt me. Two days here, you've been mutilating people with HRT instead of talking about this for two days. [[The intruders don't understand.]] You've been living here. Why didn't we talk about this for two days?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53382	Correction of an incorrect quotation
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53383	This is about the fates of 30,000 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53384	Sir, I'm going to continue with your arrogance. You're continuing to warn the chairman of what you're not entitled to. I warn you it's not an correction when you say what it is and how the government did it, but you could answer the line and say whatever you wanted. You won't provoke me. I will orderly warn you as I have so far and your conduct in the House when you start yelling at the chairman, correcting him where you have no right. I didn't give you a warning even though you deserved it because this chairman is constantly under pressure as to how biased he is about these warnings. You are repeated and permanent proof that this chairman is not biased. At least for your own good. I don't know what Mr. Linic's calling about, in the name of who? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53385	I'm reporting on behalf of the club since we're dissatisfied with the work of the president's desk. And... And this time I'm going to give up the break that I was going to ask for, given that you didn't share the warning that right after we broke up, we're going to try to explain where these differences are in treating the correction on the wrong assumption. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm giving up for now, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53386	Mr. Linic, for a hundred times, you've convinced yourself that when I sit at the Presidential table, I'm not biased, but I'm biased to your benefit, not to your harm that you've proven countless times, especially by your conduct in this assembly. So I stay silent, let it be seen. It's better for the public to see it than for me to give the warning. Now let's move on. There is another correction to the incorrect quote by Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of his presentation, counterpart Sočković said, quote: "The urgent adoption of this Law is justified and necessary." This is not true, colleague, because the urgent adoption of this important law with far-reaching consequences, I would say, I fear, with the negative consequences that will result from its application cannot be justified and even less necessary. Let's remember that for two days, we've literally been going through this House here in a debate about HRT as if it were the biggest national problem, and this important law is being passed literally 5 minutes before 12. It may be necessary for someone to pass this law in such a hurry to proceed with an emergency procedure, perhaps it is necessary for the government from them only known reasons for which we can only speculate but it is certainly not in the interest of HZ workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53388	You've also corrected your opinion, but since I'm consistent with letting anyone finish although it's no correction but the claim on whether or not it is, we're moving on. A government official, State Secretary Mr. Breglec, came forward. Be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will start by referring to the debate of Mr. Cain's distinguished parliamentary representative, who says that in the conclusion delivered to you at the beginning of the debate, you do not speak at all in the law. He has read two conclusions, and he has not read the most important part that has already been read so many times that I really don't want to waste any time on that part where the explicits talk about the consensus that has been reached. So this time I've had enough water, so I can say right. So why, let's clarify these details once and for all, why two conclusions? I said four unions made written remarks. Until the GSV session, they have agreed, adopted or sufficiently well explained that the Union's objections have been withdrawn. The remaining two were resolved by a special conclusion because they are not the matter of this Law. And that's why the unions, given that they got all the possible answers to all the comments, simply gave what every reasonable person in their place would do and gave the support that was delivered to you. But let us look a little bit at how it was accepted in this high house. It was accepted in the way first, yesterday well, if there were any conclusions when I verbally said that there were and gave my word that they existed. Do they exist? So we denied that they existed. I showed them yesterday unsigned, today signed. So after that, when we defined it today, once again at the beginning of the debate, there was, well, we'll get them during the day. We got 'em. After that, we were told, when we received them, an interesting debate about what was written. When we'd clear out what it said, we'd move on. So who do they represent that they signed there some union presidents. When we made that clear, we said, and it's not a store. When we made that clear in the end, the esteemed parliamentary representative found that there was one lapus in my pronunciation, and I suppose it would end up finding a missing comma or being excessive. But we don't, and we don't, the government isn't hiding behind anyone. The government does not hide behind these conclusions and does not want to put these conclusions on the consensus reached first. This is a once-in-a-time practical maneuver that we wanted to prove that the procedure was correct, long-prepared and careful with respect to the social partners ultimately resulted in one, at the end of a unanimous proposal in the circle and in the professional circles. Because within the Croatian Railways there are the most professional personnel, and in this management circle there is also agreement on this law, and also within the social partners' circle. So we don't want to hide behind this document. We have proposed him as proof of one claim from the beginning that in this debate he has turned into a key thing which, of course, suits us because we can absolutely prove to all those who follow this debate it is clear that what he writes is written without writing what he does not write. As for Mr. Stazic's debate, 7,000 workers will be put on the street. We are unprepared to send Croatian railway workers into battle. The privatisation of subsidiaries, 17 subsidiaries, is not mentioned anywhere in this law and is not subject to this law. This item is a division of the Croatian Railway Company. However, since you have already mentioned 7 thousand workers I suppose because that number coincides with the number in 17 dependent companies, I will answer you with the quote of your distinguished colleague, Mr Linic, from the discussion of the interpretation when he said that all these societies are positive and profitable. Therefore, your concern that the workers will remain on the street, 7 thousand of them will remain hungry 20, and I don't know how many thousands of people based on it I deny with a statement and a quote from your colleague from last debate who said they were all positive and profitable. Of course that's not true, neither. And in any case, the dependent societies will have to detect their problems, and they can only do so if they're dependent and only if there's no internal spillage and loss of cost. And this step further into division is also with that function and with that purpose intended. Therefore, I repeat, basic units must also be defined in order for the costs to surface and to begin to resolve from the inside, not for any measure to be welcomed as bureaucratically imposed by its owner. Why can I deny that the Croatian railways are not being sent unprepared to battle? First of all, we don't do this law. The 2003 railway law is the one that defined certain deadlines. He even said that this act that will follow from the beginning of next year should have happened a year before, but this claim that we do not send them ready to battle, I will deny with some investment data and with the realization of some projects. The President of the Parliament was present about 3 weeks ago with a symbolic beginning of works, there was no pump at the reconstruction of 5C corridors, a project of approximately 100 million euros, 700 and something, over 700 million kuna that will be realized in the next period, which will allow one branch of the European Corridor plan to be trained and receive operators and reach and be competitive, reach speeds up to 160, axle pressure 22 and a half tonnes, be electrified and secure. On the 10th corridor from the ISPA project, 25m euros were provided, totaling 75m euros for the Vinkovci-Tovarnik stock. The European Union has also recognised well-prepared projects and given through its funds. The money inside the project has already begun to be realised on the mentioned corridor, on the mentioned section. I was talking about vehicles and the renewal of the rolling stock and the wagons, specifically mentioning, confirming once again the realisation of the contract with Djuro Djakovic on the purchase of 300 new wagons, and also the introduction of how much more is invested this year compared to last year when it was also more invested. In fact, the previous one, and at the same time that this is made possible by restructuring measures, and it does not appear that it is necessary to invest huge amounts of money first and without restructuring because if you invest them in a system that cannot properly spend that money, then you did not do the right thing. And I think these two processes should run parallelly. Dear Parliamentarian Mr Kovacevic said December 12th that the conclusions were made. No, the 12 are signed, the 8 are to bring as it says up. So it was misstated. When asked who will buy the station, you do not expect a safe answer, therefore, I will deny it. The government passed a law, or proposes in the procedure a law which is sufficiently concrete in its elements to indicate the time of certain actions, jurisdiction. So he made it very clear which direction to go, and on the other hand he left enough time for the next 6 months to define the technical details to implement those decisions provided for in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53390	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to say something about the right to discuss the agenda point. The MPs may, if the agenda and agenda points are kept, claim whatever they want, if they are in connection with the agenda. This means that they have the right to claim what the Government disagrees with or what someone else agrees with. Provided they don't insult or belittle. Now, a representative of the government can answer by refuting or agreeing with these claims. I'm asking that we all stick to it because then it'll be easier to discuss it. There is no anger at unmeasured or unfounded claims other than denials and arguments. So, we will not show a representative of the government, and neither will the MPs, of course, by sticking to the fact that they do not insult or defamation of the government as well. In principle, I said that in connection with this debate because sometimes this fine line is crossed that everyone is positioned in that place that belongs to him in the assembly. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you responded to this part and the Secretary of State's speech because he needs to know that we're appointed, and he's as chosen as the esteemed General, the late Bobetko. That's the important difference, we're elected, he's called that. So he tried to replace the thesis. I'm also glad that he's mastered the concept of consensus, the consensus is said, you've mastered it well, but you're still going to interpolate, it's not interpolation, it's interpolation, and you're still representing the government here, so you have to keep an eye on your expression because that's what the Croatian people are looking at. The second you incorrectly quoted me as being bound, I read that the 8th consent was reached, let's say between, but I said that point 2 is questionable and that you as a representative of the Government couldn't even offer the other side because you said it was for law enforcement, and the law was not passed, only in the process of adoption. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53392	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53393	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State said that the law is concrete and that it has been prepared successfully, and now I will tell you that it is not true and that the law is actually hiding the real intention of the government. By virtue of Article 38 of the basic Law on Railways and Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Railways is a public good of general interest, says the General Law on Railways, and you are now the last day and by emergency procedure, in an emergency procedure in Article 6 of what the basic law has decreed that the Croatian Parliament is doing with one move without a major debate and that the articles of the Law on Railways take away the right of the Parliament to determine what this infrastructure ceases to be publically good from the general interest, and this will be decided by the Government under the proposal of this Law of Article 6. It's illegal and unconstitutional that you listed here. That's why he's going into the quick procedure of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53394	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53395	Two things are incorrect that Mr. Breglec said. First of all, I was talking about privatisation, and second of all, I was talking about 7 and a half thousand company workers. Not in the tied societies, Mr. Breglec, but in the transport of cargo and tow trains, and the fact that they're going to the market, I didn't make it up, you wrote it in an explanation. You wrote such a device allows non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure, a potential railway operator on a liberalised transport market. This is not what Stazic wrote, it is what you wrote, and when they come to that liberalized market, they will not be able to do and what they will not, because you have not prepared them for it and will be left without a job for you, but they will not remain for you, Mr Breglec, they will remain for this Croatian state, they will lose their jobs to their families, that is what this is about. Because of these families, we're saying it, not because we're attacking the government here or you personally. Be responsible for 7 and a half thousand citizens, workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53396	You're also using the correction of an incorrect quote because there's no replica to be presented by the Government, so then you're using the correction of an incorrect quote, you're not correcting anything, but you just have some other claims. All three such corrections have been so far. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53397	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who claimed that Slavko Linic said that all 17 related companies are successful, positive, profitable. That's not what Mr. Slavko Linic said. Mr. Slavko Linic said that most of these companies are successful and positive, Slavko Linic said that of these tied companies is a good part of the company and those who are already with 60% of the activities outside the Croatian Railways and that winning other markets outside the Croatian Railways is also the reason why more people are employed when Mr. Secretary of State tried simply to deceive representatives in the Croatian Assembly with the number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53398	Thank you. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Agent Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53399	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State said literally the unions listed what any reasonable signature would have. That's incorrect. The trade unions signed what they were forced to do, because it is clear that this conclusion was delivered to us that the trade unions signed as part of the negotiation of a new collective agreement, so they were forced, forced to sign this signature, because they also knew that they were going to the wild Croatian market without the previous Croatian railway system being modernised and saving their own skin, which is what is left for them but to sign one agreement, fearing for the fate of 7 and a half thousand workers and their families, but thus the trade unions did not take responsibility for one missed project, the responsibility is exclusively for the Croatian government and the majority that this law will vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53400	Since there is no replica, this can be considered correct, however, I believe there are no elements to the claim that some unions were forced because it would be dangerous then in our society rather than forcing unions, and then unions are forced to sign something. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it is entirely justified that the anxiety of the opposition MPs who are simply protesting against the undisputed fact that this item of the agenda was included yesterday by an emergency procedure and others that it is indeed a law that has the power to state the epochal importance for the development of Croatian society and is brought literally 5 hours ago or 15 hours ago and, in that sense, the least that you state secretary could have expected is some kind of civil apology. As for the attempt by colleagues to answer questions about what happened, whether the government is going to sell the main or western station, whether it's going to catch something in a blurry hunt, I don't think that's what this is about. I think it's a lot more serious. I will remind you, unfortunately, colleagues from the opposition were not in yesterday during the generous presentation of counterpart Zlatko Kramaric about the threat of parliamentaryism and how there is an environment between the extremes. On that occasion, our esteemed president with a very subtle sense of humor asked him "Mr. MP who would like to abolish the Croatian Parliament?" Well, you see tonight at that secret hour when Wednesday turned Thursday at midnight we got an answer, because on the direct question of the "Open" host Mrs. Hlorke Novak-Srzic's "Open" show to Mirko Galic whether in case this High House refuses his report he resigned he said it would not occur to him. I do not know such an example in European history that a parliamentary tradition is offended in such a way. I looked at the Croatian Constitution. You will be shocked, among the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and my failure, and perhaps yours too is the value of parliamentaryism or assembly. Perhaps only in the Ceausescu era does one public television not in any way respect a moral court or qualified and unqualified professional court of parliament that allows them to earn 1/3 pairs of 840 million kuna annually and now we return to the very temperament of debate and reason. I don't believe it's some kind of conspiracy that a fellow secretary of state would want to sell the station. It's about something much more tragic. I found all the answers I'm looking for two years ago about the theoretical inspirations of the Croatian government two days ago. Now I've done an ad hoc test on who are the literary and theoretical role models of individual colleagues. Nenad Stazic chose Miroslav Krleža, his hyper-lemic style was derived from the circumstances. I asked a good colleague, Matt the Church, he chose Jura Franicević-Pločar and Kaštelan, he can never strike so hard. The late President Tudjman had great theoretical role models. The old vow he was reading was constantly fascinated by Ivan's discovery or the Apocalypse, and I may have brought him an unfortunate article in 73... about the conflict of civilizations of Samuel Huntington and he became his theoretical inspiration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Zlatko Kramarić has John Rauls,... Stuart Milla, there's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even the government of Cash. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we find out who our president has for a theoretical role model... His alchemist Islamijia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we have our Prime Minister elected... I'd like you to read Richard, the book is called "Exactly At noon." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's inspired by the famous Gary Cooper movie, and then she explains why this government is making superficial decisions. I have to convince you, I'm reading a book so I can look at the references and see what the theoretical inspirations are. Mr. Rishar quotes in one place John... Nobel Prize winner for economics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a respectable theory in the area of macro-economy, particularly public finances and a major critic of the global role of the International Monetary Fund. I expected Rishar to quote him in some theoretical copy. But here on the page I think 139 quotes... And that's according to the loud thought, "The hills were shaking, the mouse was born.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to know it's a terrible surface. It's about the fates of Mr. Breglec. 21,000 people. You must not put this House in a position that he must decide such matters really five hours before 15, and you are still reading a lesson with high and bold fellow MPs. If we want to preserve the integrity of this House, then it does not need to be withdrawn as colleagues do when they remain in the minority. Therefore, there is a need to fight in this House of the High for your views, because if apathy takes over from us and if we think that everything is possible only by some foreigners, with some theories of the conspiracy that you did and what you did and what we have before us, perhaps at this point hundreds of thousands of railways, their family members retired. At this moment my friend Herman Vukusic is watching me, who is five generations of railways. So where do you get the right to put us in this position? Where are your exposés? What's with the physiology stage? Who did that? Therefore, I think this House of the High with extreme indignity should be rejected for pedagogical reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53402	Thank you. We have four replicas and one correction. We start with replicas. The first is Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53403	Mr. Vice President, I think that Mr. Letica has briefly and clearly drawn the character of this law and that there is nothing left for the government representatives but to withdraw this law today from the procedure, not to hesitate. But it would have been true that all of his claims that dear colleague Kramaric spoke inspiredly last night, too bad that you on the right were not present to me, about parliamentaryism, and this is being outlined here today in this assembly. It's the humiliation of us that the people chose, so the people chose us,... appointed Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's an important difference, and then we don't need to be surprised why the people have such a bad opinion of us when we keep quiet about what the government is giving us. And please, dear fellow Letica, state the role model to the Secretary of State and who is the role model of Minister Calmetti. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53404	Mr. Secretary of State, I'd love to know what you read in your childhood. Therefore, I cannot answer you, Mr Kovacevic. It's one of the methods used in personality theories that I used to make psycho robots. What is truly scandalous is why I started with a very subtle way how our president led a generously this two-day high house so that after two days we in that I say the second Wednesday turned out to be a haughtiness that does not know European parliamentary history. I'm not saying that this High House should fight back, but if we don't do something, there will be a resistance movement, there will be an association of Croatian television subscribers, and then we will have a street outside of parliament. And it seems that some of the right and left radicals care about such a scenario.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53405	Replica next is Mr. Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since I was quoted here almost as a classic of Marxism and it has proved that not only yesterday I spoke this much propheticly, and not only did it happen last night at midnight, but today you can open a very respected daily newspaper by a very respected columnist who invites the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Stjepan Mesic, to abolish the Croatian Parliament. You know, these are the kind of things that if we can see it all as a joke but it's much more serious than any joke, especially not... and it is indeed shown that some people and even in this society do not care about parliamentary democracy in order to lead the so-called. People's democracy, or street democracy, and then really angry with all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so truly, we must do everything to protect this Parliament here, to protect a certain procedure and to protect both the ends and the laws that we are going to bring here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53407	Answer Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53408	I reminded myself yesterday of an unfortunate circumstance that during the second world war, during the reign of Ante Pavelic, the Assembly had only one session, it simply abolished it. And in that sense, I would suggest to you, Mr. Baby, that you call an ad hoc session of the Parliament Presidency to overcome party interests and simply see what will be done. Because if it is going this way, I must warn you not only that people will do to us what they tell us when they watch us on television but we will experience something that we will be ashamed of ourselves, and that is not the least Croatian state or Croatian parliamentary democracy that needs it. And another sentence, I was the one who was called yesterday by two people who signed very congratulatingly that paper, there were 53, and four more about the condition on Croatian television. That paper is neither political nor party, it's existential paper of concerned people. One of them was viciously attacked yesterday. This has been tried to relativate, and this man came to a shame that a month ago he released news about the President of the Republic before, or the Prime Minister before the President of the Republic and reportedly lasted 10 seconds longer. So you see what this is really about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53409	So look at this in terms of abolishing the Parliament, neither can the President of the Republic of the Parliament, nor could Pavelic, he just ignored it and annulled it, but he did not abolish it, he remained still, no one has the right to abolish it or will ever be abolished, but here it serves us as little as garnering our views to use such elements in it, but I don't think it should be mentioned that someone is abolishing the Croatian Parliament. Here's a replica of Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53410	Comrade Letica, I fully support your position under this law, a request for the government to withdraw it. It is also understandable that your increased tone towards the Secretary of State of Breglec is because I think he has earned that increased tone and is a representative of the government here who allows himself to be sent to the Parliament at the last minute. I also support your support to defend the integrity of the Parliament and to strengthen, to highlight the importance of this institution, but yesterday I was impressed by a sentence by our colleague Pupovec, sometimes the Parliament needs to defend itself from him, that was the case in the last two days when the Parliament, not the Parliament, part of the Parliament, showed such a low level, even the possibility of discussing anything. That this hastened us not to run away like we said, because we're a minority but because we didn't want to participate in the debate at such a ground floor debate that was being held here for two days. So, we didn't escape, so I have to correct you, it's kind of a protest and a desire to leave those who want to argue in this way to stay alone and show the public their true face, what they are, what they are, and how they're even able to discuss anything. In that sense and a small defense if possible and if necessary although I don't think perhaps you need Mr. Galic,... The parliament's negligent opinion, because the parliament has not yet adopted an opinion, has ignored the parliamentary majority's opinion and, as the parliamentary majority has debated, has not earned anything but to completely ignore it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53411	It's an insult to the Parliament when it's being discussed on the ground floor. The Parliament has the right to debate both ground and upper ground. The Parliament's right, the Assembly's... It can literally be illiterate if it is chosen by the Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And parliamentary representatives if they characterise their own debates to the ground floor then we are surprised that there is such one opinion in the public of, not only those who thus attack or qualify the Parliament on the side but from the ranks of the Croatian Parliament. It seems that for some ground floor debate, every debate that disagrees with their views. And she can't call it any other way than a ground floor debate. The answer is sir, excuse me, Mr. Agent, Mrs. Lovrin has applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53412	Mr. Vice-President, it seems to me that you have injured the Rules of Procedure here for the reason that Article 214 states that the representative is being told a warning if, he cannot say it, but is saying it as an imperative, amongst others, demeaning or insulting the president or other MPs, Mr. Stazić has repeatedly insulted us, first told us that yesterday or two days ago we have garnered some people who have stood here and defended reports of their work, which is their legal, legal obligation constitutional law and duty. After that, he said we were arguing on the ground floor. A few days ago, he told a fellow MP that he was a little upset because it took him 15 minutes to remember what he was going to answer, etc., and I pray that in that sense the Rules of Procedure be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53413	I don't think, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure because every MP and Mr. Stazic can talk about squirming or what he used to debate the ground floor. I don't think he deserved a reminder actually he said his opinion and whatever he gets as plus out of it there he is, and what he gets as a minus there he is too. Excuse me, Mr. Letica. Answers, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53414	I think we need to bring down a myth about the ground level of this High House. I do not know how much you have been in which parliaments, the level of debate in seriousness, in the context of this House, is much higher than if you want both British and Canadian and each other's parliament. As far as I'm concerned, I'd have defended Stazic from the Krzegian position. He will remember a wonderful one, in fact an essay on Mr. Drinkovic's drunken night, a police officer in the federal government, a beautiful man he showed up there as a murderer and a freak, his son is my colleague and fellow Hebrang. Therefore, I think that, I was going to say this, that it is not good to develop the instinct of escape from the parliamentary battle. That was good when you left Belgrade, it was worse when you retired, when you voted for state independence, but it's bad when it comes to public television. An instinct is being created to escape, and it is not a good instinct for anyone, either for the individual or for this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53415	We have another replica, Mr. Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53416	Mr. Vice President, you know the MP can react in various ways, he can and can remain silent, and here I am now thinking if I'm going to keep my mouth shut or say something. But you've made a mistake here, too, allowed to discuss something that's not a topic, the subject is the Law on Railways, and apparently some of them had little two days to discuss television, so now they've spread it to both the Parliament's behaviour and television. I would still return to the railroad and answer, and reply, replicating Mr. Letica to his ironic intent of this Law. He knows very well what his intentions are because he is from Podgora, you know, there are smart births and he knows exactly what his intentions are in this Law and because of that he has no sensibilities to study. Because if it were, then the intentions would be easier to read. Someone here was saying that the accounting value of the railroad is 7.5 billion, accounting, count it three times four. Imagine how much real estate has grown in the last few years, the value of real estate. The railroad doesn't know how much there is, I'd be wronging my soul if I knew right now, but I know about some, right? I know about Zagreb, I know about Split. Well, you know. The railroad also has real estate in Sinj. Arera was suspended 35 years ago. And there's real estate in Sinj, and I see the problem with this law, and that's the problem with this law. I'm afraid that whoever's in control of it will get their hands and their mustaches dirty and go away just like a lot of things went away in this country, like a lot of the conversion went the way it went. The poor girl stayed, and the money found some other places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53417	Thank you very much. Before you did, you didn't sign up, Mr. Letica. ... But I'm going to comment on whether I let it go away because I was wrong about it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr Letica's exposure was embellished by a philosophical approach to this problem, so that he would eventually score later by contesting this bill. I think it was still in line with the agenda and I don't think so, and the replicas and correcters of the incorrect quote that were directed towards Mr. Letica were in line with a broad understanding of what a replica is and what a correction of the incorrect quote is. So here you are, Mr. Leticia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53418	Special thanks to you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Jaksa Marasovic knows that he is my weakness, some kind of my guru, because he understands and loves Croatian waters. That's the resource I was talking about exactly 38 years ago, please, when I came back from Asia, as a resource that will be a resource more important than oil in the 21st century. So, Mr. Jaksa Marasovic, I'll give you the book... It's not about conspiracy theories, it's about much more dangerous things, terrible surfaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53419	Thank you. And we have one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53420	Thank you very much. I would have corrected the false allegations of fellow Letica that the SDP left yesterday's session because we are a minority. We are always a minority in this term in Parliament and that logic should be constantly out of the House. We simply did not want to sit and attend such a way of discussing Croatian television yesterday. I don't know if you will, we left not for the minority but for the way we discussed it. So it can be called, or it doesn't have to, either ground floor, or uncivilized debate, etc. But the way in which certain human tragedies and fates are used for some argument we simply didn't want to give legitimacy and attend. As far as the answer is concerned... /The speaker went off and turned it on again./... nothing needs to be done, that will already make sure the government, or the Ministry of Finance, that the actual attack on Croatian television continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53421	Yes, sir. Are you in breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Leticia, here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53422	Mr. Shime Luchin hurt and abused Article 209. What's that, I was talking about a theoretical position. I'll hand you my analysis of behavior, political behavior and the SDP withdrawal strategy in the age of george gere I wrote about in "The Evening List".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53423	As regards withdrawal from the sitting, it is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure. It can be... I don't have that observation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Gentlemen, let's move on with the debate. It is Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53424	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it would be best if this bill were to be withdrawn, completed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then sent to the Parliament for the first reading. And this is to protect the interests of both the Republic of Croatia and the workers and their families on the Railways, but also the reputation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because I'm gonna say one rough maybe a little grade. It seems to me that some of the solutions contained in this law, among other things because they are not defined, are not qualified, may actually open up a space that could lead to the application of this law, including the principles of bribery and corruption if you want nepotism, or even party clientism, regardless of who will be in power. Then let it draw attention to some issues that are very important. First of all, this law practically opens up the possibility of turning the railroad into some kind of holding company. Secondly, this process should be completed by June, by the end of June of next year. Third, he should share the property and that property is not at all a problem to share. It's a far bigger problem to do it really on the ground. In addition, the short term is also discussed by the president of the Croatian Railways Administration. But how do you split the property? And what property? You see, Article 2 appears in the property that becomes the property of companies, and in this respect it is the property now owned by HZ, other than the property which is of general, general and public use and of general interest owned by the Republic of Croatia. And now comes the third property, the business buildings that will be given to use the company. And there's no telling whether they're property or not. Now you see. In the case of assets of general interest, that division of those assets shall, in accordance with Article 52. The Constitution only regulates by law. Unfortunately, the law did not regulate this, but is transferred to power to regulate it by the Government and that is, in this respect, there are contradictions to the Constitution. Secondly, even the minimum legal procedure is not prescribed, the conditions and criteria of the possible division of assets are not prescribed. In fact, you just don't know, he didn't define how to share all that HH property. Third, which is very important. Now, when you take Article 2 and you put it in comparison to Article 7 in particular paragraph 2, you suddenly see something that is very important. That companies will, I quote, "Article 1(1) of this Act states that the legal followers of HH’s commercial company will be in relation to the property, rights and obligations acquired, except for the obligation set out in Article 42. 2.", and these are actually claims from the title of the loans taken over on the domestic and external stage taken by the Croatian railways. Now, the next question arises, and what will the government then share between them. The law should exclude property that is in general use, public goods of personal interest, and the Government should, by a special decision, divide this property into these new basic companies, which, by the force of the law, which we are making, become the property of these companies. I'm sorry, I just don't know what kind of government's gonna do. What will he respect? The power of the law to become the property of a company, therefore constitutive or, on the basis of its act, it will try to adopt the criteria of division from the title, of course, that it is the owner, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, of the property which is now owned by the company d.o.o. Croatian railways. The fact that he's here... And here, for sure, there's a lot of work to be done and the Parliament can't just be excluded from this issue and transfer all powers to the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It simply cannot be a good thing for the Republic of Croatia, and if so, as Article 52 says, I will quote paragraph 1. "sea, sea coast and islands, water, airspace, ore treasure and other natural resources, but also land, forests, plant and animal life and other parts of natural property and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological significance", and here it can be said that it is land along the railways and where the railroad is located. Then on the facilities which are of particular economic importance which the law stipulates are of interest to the Republic, and they are determined by law to be of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the government cannot be given authority, but the law needs to address these issues, and that question should certainly be asked differently. Third, at the same time, the Government should establish a new company within the same time-limit by its decision, which will, among other things, transfer the business shares of the Republic of Croatia to the companies referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to the Government of the Republic. Now, look here, you have to ask the question, right now, that there is another item in Article 1. That the newly established companies referred to in Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 actually belong to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of assets as the legal basis so far owned. Or it must simply be referred to Article 7(2), then it excludes the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or rather there is a conflict over ownership relations between newly founded societies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That this is best indicated in Article 4(2), which says: "The government of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will determine the value of the underlying capital of this company, the subject of its business, its bodies and the way in which they are appointed." You see, what's this about? The government referred to in paragraph 1 shall say, "The Republic of Croatia will receive a decision on the establishment of a company referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act on a proposal from the Minister." Look, which has already been solved there, be it said, nomotechnically, things have been repeated several times. So it's obviously very, very serious things, and at the same time it's about to transfer huge property rights and liabilities to newly founded companies that are going tomorrow and going to the privatisation process. The question is, in fact, who will ultimately control more strongly the privatisation of such assets, especially real estate, land, business buildings and stakes. This is a very serious question, and I personally think that the Croatian Parliament cannot and must not be so excluded from it, nor can it transfer all these powers or take responsibility for the privatisation of Croatian Railways because they are of particular economic interest to the Republic of Croatia and in this respect should be taken into account. Fourthly, I have to say that there are some things that have nomotechnically surprised me, but I'm going to say more about them about both the emergency procedure and the time of entry into force of this law, but about that, then. Let me put a special problem under fifth. The fact is that the union in the business part of the "Evening List" contribution warns among other things that they have sought to prevent more damage if they do not approach this agreement on the issue. This is among other things a quote according to the business section of the "Evening List" spoken by Ivan Hrgoč, president of the Croatian Railways Union. In this respect, however, it is shown that they were in some kind of seal with the government on behalf of these relations. Of course, in such a situation, the question arises, in fact, what about the workers. In the area of train draws, in the area of traffic distribution, and in which they are prepared to be together with their managements and newly founded companies exposed to markets and this is a very serious issue. And now let me go back to this fourth as a special question, of a formal nature. Dear colleagues and colleagues, regardless of which majority will support or would be able to support a bill, including an emergency procedure. But it is wrong not to at least take advantage of the Rules of Procedure the prescribed reasons when it can be passed by the urgent procedure of the law so that they do not specify themselves and try to explain themselves. Note that this is, among other things, the reason for Article 42. The railroad law, that's because of an emergency procedure. So this Rules of Procedure does not mention anywhere, the Rules of Procedure speak of particularly economically justified reasons, of the state interests of the defence and... The Republic of Croatia. So these are the reasons, not this. And this simply isn't credibility, it's not justified, it's not correct, after all, according to us Assembly deputies in this way to request an emergency procedure. That this is also a relatively incorrect relationship with the Parliament and the parliamentary representatives shows in particular the article 10, which says this: "This law takes effect on the day of its publication in the National Journal". I would like to remind you of Article 89(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which explicitly states, quotes: "The law enters into force at the earliest eight days of the day of its publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, the law sets out otherwise." Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law does not indicate any particularly justified reason why it is necessary for this law to enter into force on the day of its publication, not 8 days after its publication, etc. So, not even a minimum vaccio legion. Now look, here is not even a minimum of 8 days, let alone more vaccio legions does not have time or time to meet actually those addresses to which the law will refer to the content of this law, and it is a law that opens the privatisation of Croatian railways. I don't think it's good, and for that reason this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, done and prepared for a new reading at the first session in the beginning of next year. Thank you very much. I apologize for the length of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53425	Thank you very much. My colleagues, before we have one replica, we have five more reported. As soon as we're done with this, there'll be a break, and then at 3:00, it'll be the next vote. So, here, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar has a replica. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And fellow Mato mentioned as well as a large number of colleagues and colleagues who had previously discussed the consent of the unions that were visible from this paper in the process of preparing this Law. I have so far proposed several times from the government and demanded that in all the laws discussed on the Economic and Social Council, the position be clearly entered in the reasoning of the bill. Perhaps if we had received this law with a clear explanation and the position of the Economic and Social Council a number of dilemmas, it would already be true when determining the agenda and the debate. The government has also put this bill in the process without writing anything about it inside. I personally, and I don't think we in the House should even dispute the legality and legitimacy of union decisions when they've signed these conclusions. Because the only people they can and must answer to are union membership. But I want to believe that they were aware that after the adoption of this Act only the Government and only the Government would have to fight the battle and the war to enforce the law on their interests because, by giving consent to this concept of law enforcement, the Parliament had completely excluded from the further procedure of implementation, supervision and reporting on the implementation of this law. I want, therefore, to believe that colleagues in unions were aware of the risks they entered and that these conclusions that follow this bill are that they will no longer be able to bring them before this building if they are unhappy with any law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53427	Replica response, respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53428	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Lesar. I agree with your assessment of possible such dangers, but I still see them from each other... I must remind myself that, in addition to all the obligations relating to the division of assets, rights and obligations, workers must also be divided and there is even the possibility that workers from a particular society should not have adequate employment, etc., they would have the right to the employment championship in another society where they are located. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in such a situation, even if the unions gave up, and they didn't give up. Yet from this text, they did not give up. They will have to be involved in this issue and a debate will have to be opened on this issue. And here is actually an additional problem that practically this bill has no key problem from property through the question of workers to the issue of rights and obligations other than credit obligations which actually takes the decision of the Law on Railways not in this Law has been resolved and therefore it is necessary to simply consider one fact that the law needs to resolve the issues of what is first with good of general interest and which and in what way will be managed by them. Second, to establish the legal elements and criteria of the conditions under which the division of assets between the companies it is taking will actually be defined. Thirdly, as well as which in the ownership stakes will be retained by the Government and to what extent in certain companies, it does not have to be the same in all. And fourthly, only in such a situation to resolve the issue of workers and what is particularly important, you know that I do not see a transitional period anywhere here until the time, except that by the end of 6 months, companies will be established, but by which time these companies will be in a position of privileged market position in relation to the use of railways and tow trains, i.e. the transport of goods in relation to a foreign partner, given the fact or will have to start immediately, they will simply not be able to withstand it competitively. It won't be possible, because they can't... a competition that will be consistent with, say, Austria's railways or I don't know Germany or anyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53429	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53430	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, let's get right to it. I am already in one of the people's corrections, as well as my colleague Arlovic has actually discovered what the purpose is and what the purpose of this Law is. The law only sets out in two articles the purpose and objective of Article 1(2) when the Government will become the owner of all divided companies, this means being able to privatise before it has qualified those companies to become competitive on the market. So, the government's concern is to fill the budget, not to train the Croatian railway for competition, and while I'm talking about it, I'm reading the government and union conclusions right now. When we refer to the value of these conclusions, do you know what the union and the government have concluded? What workers already have the right under the Labour Act will happen to them and nothing more will happen to them. How? If in any of the four future companies, I say railway workers who are unemployed, they will take other companies out of those 4 if they need them and if they meet the requirements they need. There's no obligation in this, no obligation at all. What about Article 6? The basic Law on Railways in Article 15 states that rail infrastructure, whatever it is, is public good in general. Article 38 of this Law repeats the same and says that the Croatian Parliament will decide which infrastructure is not generally good in public use. So, the basic Law gave it in accordance with the Constitution to us, the Parliament, any call for it, and then the Government on an urgent procedure, and that the Law is not a P.Z.E., so it is not a alignment with the legal gains of the European Union, in haste by emergency procedure, when the Parliament is already sitting for a month and a half of days offering the solution set out in Article 6 says the Government of the Republic can, on the proposal of the Minister, use and management of certain parts of the railway infrastructure, etc. to give to another domestic and foreign legal person under the conditions laid down in Article 33. The law of the railroad, therefore, past the Parliament. Well, that's true, come on I'll still be restrained, it's really more than expected. Let's go for an explanation. It's symptomatic, I don't believe that the government and the ministries don't know that in the legal technique of writing when it calls for norm, the norm is listed. So the minister here says twice, and that is how it is called and called in, according to the Law on Railways, it is prescribed that a special law will separate HZ. Well, that's not all the railroad law is prescribed, Mr. Secretary of State. Only one subparagraph is said, so the Law still has a lot to do with a government that the government ignores rather than calls for the whole law. What about restructuring, investing, training the railroad for the competition? What about protecting the interest of 30 thousand workers and Croatian interests because the railway would allow Croatia's Adriatic orientation of the Croatian Adriatic port to take precedence over other ports and offer themselves in the package to European markets. There's not a word about it. So we consciously ignored what we have in a comparative advantage over the countries of the European Union, the Adriatic Sea and the Adriatic Sea. By neglecting the development of the railways, we have left it to the European Union market which is absolutely stronger in the game with us and the market of course has its own rules and its legality and we are expected to establish a regulatory body that will allow these foreign stronger partners to use and eliminate the comparative advantage of the Republic of Croatia just when it comes to the railways as a strategic and infrastructure enterprise. If we consider it, and we cannot ignore it, and already here it was said that it was a company, a company, a society that is the most nominally significant in the Republic of Croatia, let the value coefficient be higher twice, and again it is 15 billion kuna in the game, and we will binco without having to control it, and the Constitution tells us to take care and monitor the government's actions to decide what is good of general interest in public use, and then it decides who else abroad will give it without criteria, without rules, without determining to what purpose and what function. If I were really bad, I could now say whether this is a consequence and a continuation of the policy that the Government has already expressed when it comes to foreign relations or the return of property. There is something else that is very important in my court to point out again, which reveals the government's intentions. A colleague, Mimica, has already said, should not be invoked for a directive of the European Union because this is not a law that harmonizes Croatia's rights or rights with the acquis of the countries of the European Union. If you are already calling on yourself then don't just take one directive and then mark it as just one directive, then we know what policy it is, then it is a selective approach, and a selective approach certainly in competition with an economically stronger we are losing. And that's an objection to the government, and it would really be the correct thing to do if the government were to withdraw the bill, leave enough time for all MPs, all clubs, and the government itself to assess the extent of such a law, or the consequences of better speaking of such a law, which would absolutely be negative if we adopted it like this. We will vote on bianco, empty and that is not the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament to the voters who brought us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53431	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53432	Here, and as an individual, I will try to appeal to my colleagues first and foremost not to accept this bill and to essentially move the deadlines in the Railways Act to be able to prepare the proposal in a good way. I'll try to explain this appeal or my request with a few more allegations. It is hardly that any of us here can agree to the next finding in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The separation of Croatian Railway companies in smaller companies according to business areas creates entities capable of accepting market conditions. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia finds that only by the separation process are the entities capable of a difficult competition. Well, no one can accept that, no one. What we know by modernising and modernising the Croatian Railways is possible to create entities capable of a competition, not a separation. The separation that we're doing today is basically pushing into a market game of incompetent economic operators. And that's the biggest problem. And until yesterday, we always said modernization, modernisation. And we can agree it's hard to find the means to modernise. But let's not do this so that those entities that are incompetent to the competition are pushed separately towards the game. That's why this law is a problem, and that's why so many appeals. Let's not do that. They are not able to be concrete, competitive and really fight for their market positions, so that's what we want to say. Let's postpone another year and try to create conditions for modernisation. If we consider it difficult to find the funds, and it is difficult to find them, then let us try to say at least in this law, in a similar law that should come to the obligations of the Croatian State to help the subjects in the competition. At least we have to predict it. Why? Well, because here in reason, it says that after we settle companies like this, we can't discriminate against new racers on Croatian stripes, we can't. And that means we won't be able to give any tow and freight subsidies. We won't because it says here, we can't give it to them. After we start them when we throw them at the game, we can't. Then Europe will tell us we have no right. The World Bank, no one's gonna let us. We'll only be able to subsidize passengers and edit the tracks, but the freight and the tow and the kuna we won't be able to give them. We'll be able to give them a guarantee if we can. And that's it. At least here we write that we can provide a transitional period for their modernisation, at least in this law. At least we could write it, so tomorrow someone can't argue with us. Because read what it says on the other side of the argument. It says here when we separated them they're capable. And secondly, we have no right to discriminate against strangers. That's what it says in the government's explanation. And that's why we're trying to appeal to people. It could be a better text of the law, it could be, even in such a tight time that we don't have the money to modernise. But let's take a few years of transitional period, let's give them the law to make it possible and say we'll take care of their modernisation because they're not capable and the government is writing with division they're capable of. That's what we can't accept, what we're trying to say, let's be sober. What we also want to say is what are the criteria of division. Is that just a burden on the government now? Do we have the right to refuse to say that we need to establish that in addition to the direct movement that serves them to perform their duties? We need to keep an eye on the real estate. Then maybe we'll give them some real estate as an incentive so we'll write it down that part of the property we'll provide for them, even if it's above the standard by the number of squares per employee, etc. We could have written all of that down there, some of the criteria to give government guidance, and this is how we give it up. We don't know the criteria for sharing real estate, we don't know. And we could just through that property indirectly provide an incentive without the foreigners telling us to discriminate them in the game with our cargo rail traffic. And I'm going to say for a little while what's far, far deep we have to imagine. The formation of four companies and holding companies that will manage the decision to privatise the cargo cargo and draw makes holding. Neither does the government nor brings the Croatian Parliament. They are decided by one who is determined by this law to govern them. Therefore, with the huge potential for Croatian development, I will not talk about the property but about the potential for Croatian development, because freight transport is important, because it also depends on "Djuro Djakovic", depending on it "Cončar", it is dependent on "Gredelj", both on coastal ports and river ports. It will also be decided by the holding company. Not the government, not this. A couple of individuals the government will name in holding because we didn't write anything different in this law. We and this organization could have written but we had to give all the details of the privatisation will be brought by the Croatian Parliament. We didn't put that in either. And people, if anything else about the company holding will decide on privatising cargo, about privatizing pulls and we will simply sell the wolf tomorrow which then who knows how to drag our passenger traffic. Unfortunately, that's how it stands. If we know anything about companies. And that's why with even this concept of law where we know that we haven't provided the funds with additional interventions we can solve the way I would say division of assets, we can solve the additional incentives that are necessary to be competitive but we have to write that they are not competitive. But it says here they're competitive. And of course, we need to re-establish that even though the privatisation process takes place, I am not talking about related societies and daughters, but these four important entities will decide on this by the Croatian Parliament. There's no law on that. There's no law. And that's why I think that this huge power that's going to be passed on to a government that will then decide without any fences we've set up, any care shown for these four companies I think is a law that shouldn't be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53433	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53434	Mr. President, counterpart Linic said the government believes that the very process of separation creates entities capable of a competition, none in this bill nor in the government's reasoning nor in any government member's statement has been made. Because the process of modernising Croatian railways is not stopped by this, it continues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53435	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53436	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I have to say right away what they said, and I've already told my colleagues at the SDP Club that we disagree with the adoption of this Act and I personally, especially with its speed. The fact that the Croatian Parliament is always guilty when a bad law is passed and it is never going to accuse the government of forcing the adoption to speed up the law. As an example and an illustration, I only state the Health Insurance Act that we brought in seems to me in July of this year, and when it comes to that famous suspension of transport costs by less than 100 km and for children and for disabled people and for all others from the government, it is the Croatian Parliament, the Parliament has passed laws. It is our responsibility just because we did not take a critical look at the causes and consequences of the Law, though not all of us, because the majority of the Law passed by revote. The second thing is, I'm here, and I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State right now, when we've been passing amendments and additions to the Mail Act, then we didn't stand up so hard to liberalize the market. We have on our market companies dealing with courier activities, and at that time we were very conservative, Bene Volent towards Croatia's post office, even threatened with alleged or foreign irregularities in certain companies to close. Of course, nothing was done. I ask why now this fierce liberalisation and the battle to liberalise the market and we all know that Croatian railways are not qualified for a real competition. We'll give you a series of examples. Here I am asking Mr. Secretary of State which are the reasons why this high house is not a substantiated analysis of the situation that would be or would be the basis for the adoption of this law. If you had that background which is why at least the club representatives didn't get. Let's remember, here's a reminder of both you colleagues and yourself personally. Croatia's railways remained over 50% in the country's war, meaning they had no 50% minimum tow capacity. We know in what state the wagons were cargo and passenger, plus most of them became obsolete. I must admit that this government has not made too much effort to go into modernization, there I must, no matter what, commend Minister Calmett that he has managed to get something to make additional cars in both Slavon ship and in Greda. But that's not enough. I ask myself and you, on the basis of which expert analysis and on what data has it come that Croatian railways are mature to go into restructuring and privatisation? How much and how much tow capacity they have right now, what quality they are, I'm talking about it, and I'm guessing we don't know much maybe there are individuals in this House who know it. And that's why it seems to me that an emergency procedure is not an indication of the government's determination but of the desire that perhaps in a quick procedure and conceals the real arguments that are at stake. But we're going to do something local. If we go to that, that infrastructure becomes an integral part and that infrastructure will be state-owned. Let's say a little bit about local stripes that are usually neglected. I ask who will report to the competition for a local railing competition especially for those who are not up to the end not rentable because they are poor quality. On a track at which the speed is 30 km per hour, a natural thing that there will be no passengers and none. I suppose it would be normal to take the procedure of an operator who will work on these tracks to bring the railroad into a normal and 21 century proper driving condition. But then we will come again, the problem will be in the Croatian Parliament because only the Croatian Parliament can make a decision to abolish the railway, when there is no traffic and no more local and regional self-government will be interested in subsidies because we are constantly imposing new obligations on them and we are not giving them money or decentralised funds, we are wondering what will be on the railways on the local railways. By the way, I would like to hear explanations if there is no longer in the law what the position of currently dependent companies in the Croatian Railways will be compared to four newly created companies. How it's gonna be regulated relationships. Who gets property rights because they're not privatized to the end. I would like to point out, in particular, the relations in Article 1 between, we know, the transport of passengers, the transport of freight and the towing of trains. In this situation, when train towing does not have enough quality capacities in which it will contribute to domestic operators and in which way abroad that will have to traffic our tracks. That would be interesting to hear because, you know, if we now know that the railways are partly inconclusive because they don't have the right capacity, so who's going to be driving in the railways, that means that we who haven't been modernised to the end are left to the mercy of foreign competition. They want to admit it to me or not. I don't think it should be said that railways as such are a strategic product of one state, of strategic interest, this is not just about the maritime orientation of Croatia, but also about river ports that we want to develop. Just thanks to the improved quality of the train from Vukovar to Vinkovci, something started to work and a werewolf port began to develop, there is a simple danger that it would simply not be completed to fail the project. I point out as well as my colleague, Leko, especially in Article 6 of this Act. You know, it's all nice, wonderful and wonderful but we in the Parliament are guilty of passing the law especially when they're not good quality, if they're better, if they're going forward, then the glory is being taken over by the government anyway, and we're now letting the government completely divide the property and now we can come up with a paradoxal situation. Article 6 which gives the Government the exception and the possibility to exclude something from the infrastructure. There's a real possibility, colleagues and colleagues that even the main station, it's theoretically possible that the government's main station is giving someone else control because it's a gold coke. While at some point the station will continue to manage this society and all possible and impossible situations if the company does not have a financial positive business. All without the supervision of the Croatian Parliament. It seems to me that I need to think very carefully and maturely about it. We also do not have the criteria on which the distribution of assets will be conducted and on which valuable properties of Croatian Railways will be distributed, I will say only an example of Gredelj, a lot is written about it. Gredelj's company seems to me to own a Croatian railway with about 1700 employees who currently have extremely valuable land here near the main station. Will that land then be used and sold that society goes forward, to be in favour of employees, to contribute to the state through taxes and everything else, or perhaps also to the government's decision to manage another, third, fourth. And yet, as I have noted, without the control of this High House. It seems to me that this is why an emergency procedure is not the happiest solution on one side, and on the other hand, it seems to me that this law is not good. We have, again, a parallel with the Post Law of the same government, the same Ministry, the same secretary of state, and the principles are not equal. On one side of the post office, we're conservative, there's no liberalisation while we want to be ultraliberal here. Who and why in the account? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53437	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53438	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I'll try two, three false allegations after many. Mr. Korenik says, "The government is covering up the real reasons for the adoption of this law by a speedy procedure." That's not true. First, the urgency of the procedure was voted here in the Parliament. So it's not, it's not a matter of government. The second thing, the procedure that is the result of a consensus that has been reached with the social partners. With representatives of employees, therefore, with unions, with all those involved in the process. Secondly, he says, you say, "The government does not want to invest in the modernisation of HH." That's not true. Well, it's 2004 last year. Government, this government invested more than in 2003 when you were in power. And this year even more than last year. So it can only be read that the government wants to modernise, that it wants to invest. Third, there is no reality in stopping the projects. That's completely incorrect. That, that insinuation of yours. And fourth, as far as the postal code is concerned. We asked to then apply the European standards of colleagues of the Korenika. That European standards apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53439	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative Peter Mlinarić. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53440	Mr. President, I have to correct my colleague to take the line of the Vukovar port, from Vukovar or Vukovar-Vinkovci Station, is a recently reparated railway for passenger and freight traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53441	Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53442	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I join all those who have previously told me that this Law confirms the irresponsibility of the government. Why? This proposal, the bill was passed at the government's last session of the telephoned, reportedly called, sent to the emergency procedure, in an emergency procedure. Her remarks begin with a day of publication in the National Journal. So in these dozens of articles of the law, he has read a lot, but not what will certainly satisfy the first citizens of the Republic of Croatia, secondly, because then there will remain the greatest burden on them, and secondly all those who are fatally bound to the Croatian railways or economically lean upon them. To paraphrasise fellow Sockovic's continuing urgency of the bill's proposal also confirms the determination and consistency of the government in its irresponsible behaviour. I often get the impression that our government is acting on that old saying that is usually applied and that, which is more appropriate for all the armies of the world, which says that the army is in a hurry to wait and wait to hurry. It's just a shame in this case that we're here in the Croatian Parliament. Here is an incomplete 9 hours left or a little more until the end of the session, so until the end of the session, as provided for by the Constitution in this session of the Parliament, and we need to adopt and discuss a very serious law whose effects are indeed far-reaching. It is not possible to read from this Law, and by this Law, I have confirmed the wording of the verse, and there is no need for it. It's studiory, systemicity in work. Why am I saying this this? So in the light of this Act, it is said that by separating the companies of the Croatian Railways into smaller companies according to business areas, entities will be able to accept market conditions that impose the need to open and liberalise the access of other entities in the railway transport market. This Law regulates formal, legal, financial and accounting separation and the applicant says such an arrangement enables non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure, potential railway operators on a liberalised transport market. This Law enables rationalisation of business, more efficient management, increasing its own transport revenues, transparency of use and supervision of the use of funds. Thus, by separating Croatian railways into 4 companies and on Holding, the fifth, it is said that the efficiency of governance will be achieved and that it will be easier to deal with the new society's market. Me and I personally think differently. The Government of Croatian Railways, which we recently discussed, but also in the adoption of the Law, heard the data that the Croatian Railways fleet is an average age of 24 to 28 and that passenger wagon for 26 years, motor trains for 24 years, freight wagons 27 years, locomotives 28 years. The latest purchase of passenger cars took place in 1991, and the locomotive unfortunately in 1989. The deficit in the necessary capital remont of the railway, the insufficient all other modernizations simply do not give us the right and it is not realistic to expect that it will be possible to fulfill everything that this Law explains to the Government tells us. That Croatian railways will be able, but also competitive for the future I am sure of a very fast and ruthless competition and not only on our tracks. As much as I personally think very differently and join my predecessors who have very specific and quality and elaborated it. Thus, this Law simply due to a lack of simulation and development but also does not realistically expect new companies to be able to catch a step, and where competition is fierce and unquestionably challenging the sustainability of trains and freight transports, as well as those companies that are based on Croatian railways. From Đura Djakovic, Gredelja and many others. Neither me nor my predecessors, and especially my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP Club, it's not clear what the rush is. Personally, I don't believe that it's any kind of "deal" or political trade, but I'd simply say "inconsistencies" and a really weird rush with consequences that we'll all feel for many years. In conclusion, which we have received on the consensus benches between the minister and the union, it is said that the surplus workers will be taken into account and that they will be redistributed from one company to another if there is a shortage in the other. But nowhere has been said and no one has said, so we haven’t heard from the secretary of state what will happen to all those surplus surpluses that will appear because apparently many will not find a perspective in these new trading societies that will form. A lot of people are gonna have to go out. For these reasons, it is also through today's debate, and I am also showing concern for the fate of such and the intention of this restructuring of the Croatian Railways and, instead, we propose that the Government, and I suggest that the Government withdraw this law for many reasons also spoken of by colleagues Mato Arlović and colleagues Linic, but also others. It begins with the very powers that the Government takes on behalf of the Parliament, to a solution that is neither founded nor elaborated. We propose to make good, thorough preparations, to carry out quality simulations, both markets and the ability of society, both from the position of minimum equipment, organisation, staff teaming, and financial stability. I think we have good examples and the past time period as privatisation has been done, starting with good preparation for the privatisation of INA, so before that of the Croatian waters that they have received, I would say good wind in the sails and make a significant step and become one quality subject of security and stability in economic terms, but also in each other when it comes to the Republic of Croatia. So, to conclude, unless the Government withdraws this law, I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we do not accept and reduce, that we do not accept this law in order to reduce all possible damages that could result from this law, and I believe that the damage is to the wrong decisions and to the wrong legal solutions to the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53443	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Ivo Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53444	Well, here's what I purposely did, so Mr. Raven can answer me because I simply can't believe that when 17 companies were released from the Croatian Railways you, a colleague, and you, too, Mr. Raven, depicted it as a great success of the government. To tell you the truth, I was thinking, and it's really good to agree with the trade unions from the Croatian Railways when I know these people and I know how well they know the problem of the Railways. It's a great honor for them to want it, that they did it and they wanted to make a good deal with the unions. Today, when the Croatian government and the ministry agreed with 99% of the Croatian Railway Union, we want to show it as not good, the trade unions do not know what they are doing, and I think it was on the side of the SDP and as far as partners are concerned, and also to the trade unions because we know that it was the other way around. I just can't believe the words let's delay that law for a year. So do you really think, and you claim to reduce investment in the Croatian railways that these companies will be able to market us in equal competition within a year, that they will solve their problems all and enter the market evenly as competitive. And since you've made them competitive on the market, I think it's well-known. I didn't say last time in the debate, if anyone remembers, there were locomotives in Sibenik. The railway sold to one company was cut off as in Kiev, then from Kiev, in Kiev it was bought by Janko Gredelj, the beating changed their number and you bought them again from Janko Gredelj and are driving them today in the Croatian Railways. This was a way of training companies for the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53445	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you see, dear colleague, I didn't say this union conclusion was bad. He simply doesn't give us for, we don't have enough elements simply to be able to make a quality decision about what to do, what to get with this. When it comes to 17 companies that are restructures, I want to say very precisely what you are, as a longtime employee in the Croatian Railways, you certainly know very well, they remain 100% owned by the Croatian Railways are based on Croatian railways and operate or work in our Croatian frameworks. They have no foreign competition. Customize...... That's what we're saying right now, that's what I'm saying. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At these times, if any more serious foreign company were to compete with the refurbishment of rail vehicles in Slavonski Brod, or not our hospitality, I'm not sure how long these companies would survive. This is simply about another element that you consciously spin into another circle or pull a constant parallel with the activities of the previous government. We are concerned about the fate of these companies who, in this state of the fleet, will have to run hard in such a structure to catch up with other far, far more developed and stronger companies. And in the end, it's not all good that's happened in the past time period, not during your government, not during our past government. A bunch of things that aren't right should be rejected, but also appreciate everything that's good and he's wearing a better tomorrow. So does this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53447	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review by State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53448	Thank you, Mr. President. A few closing sentences ago allow me to refer to the arguments made in some discussions. First of all, I hope at no time that my debate was neither tall nor sassy. I was at one point quoting the sequence, so I was quoting what was said. Thus, it could definitely not have been in the spirit of how the qualification was presented. A few facts that have been presented in further discussions must be addressed. First of all, the Honorable Mr. Parliamentarian Leko stated that, that is, it is not true that the separation law is contrary to the basic Law on Railways. When we talk about article 15. The Law on Railways must be noted by what you have just quoted as public service infrastructure in general as owned by the Republic of Croatia. This law on division in Article 6 does not deny this, this quote in Article 15. The railroad law. He speaks, Article 6. The law of division speaks of the possibility of giving a concession. The concession is granted under certain conditions which are further defined by the Law on Railways and therefore is exempt from ownership, rather than ownership. The ownership remains, and the concession is owned over ownership, which is property of the Republic of Croatia given to one who acquired in a fair, transparent and correct concession procedure. I hope that's the part we've cleared up. So it's not true that the law is in collegiate with the basic law that was passed. Then, in the debate of Vice-President Arlovic, it was stated that this is a law that opens the privatisation of Croatian railways. That's also incorrect. This law is aimed at dividing the Croatian Railways Trade Society, not privatising Croatian Railways. The Privatisation Act defines that public companies owned by the Republic of Croatia are privatised to special laws and that may not happen in a certain future period with the Croatian Railways. So it is simply incorrect that this law defines the privatisation of Croatian railways. Whether or not this law is marked "E"... the bill is certainly not in its form, but it is in its own form, because it relies on a law that was in the process of adopting a law harmonising Croatian legislation with European legislation. The Law on Railways, the basis for the adoption of this law, was a law harmonising Croatia's legislation with European legislation, and this law further discusses one segment that further discusses this fundamental law in principle. Therefore, in its form it is not a European law, in its essence it is a European law. Furthermore, Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Linic, has led us to separate societies, but in this context, of course, I must say that, at the same time as other measures to restructure the showed productivity growth, we make them more ready for the market. They're these reasons, so you've looked back multiple times on the explanation, where it says that by dividing them, I'm not going to quote now, but you know what you're saying, that they're also separating the market. Not only by separation, yes and separation but also by the measures we have spoken all this morning and in previous discussions, and these measures, as I have previously stated, have their positive effects and positive results. The Honorable Mr. Parliament representative of the Korenika has pulled several parallels with the Law of Mail. In both cases, this is about harmonisation, i.e. continuing the intensity defined in the European guidelines. There is a different situation in Croatia post office, it is different in Croatian railways and definitely once again this law does not define the liberalisation of Croatian railways, i.e. their privatisation as mentioned. What will be the relationship depending on companies with emerging societies who will own these companies, was a concrete issue mentioned in the debate. In Article 2 of this Act, when it is said that the assets will be defined within the next six months and subsequently transferred by the Government to the newly established societies, this Article 2 therefore provides an answer to this question. In the next six months after the agreement and after the decision, it will be defined as the property of emerging companies. What about the excess surpluses that were asked the next question? With excess surpluses, it will certainly not work in a way that spends 300 million kunas and that the end result is 82 workers more than before that process. Excessive surpluses will be done as we did in the past year and in the previous year, in order to achieve an effect of less than 670 workers with 150 million kuna. That's how it's going to work with excess surpluses. It will continue to be voluntary with a political kensus, i.e. I apologize with a consensus with the social partners. At the very end, I would like to say that whether this proposal is defined in a telephone or any other way of sitting of the Government, that it has not been established then, that it was then established and it is not done then and it is less important that it is carefully prepared and it is important that, by adopting this law, we do not lose our pace because the time of accession to the European Union is going, and the European Union does not accept the states with the non-liberalised structure of this segment, therefore the railway market. We therefore believe that, as specific clear segments, dependent companies will, for the rest of the period, be able to detect their weak spots more easily, there will be no spillovers and hidings and for the transport of passengers or cargo or vice versa, infrastructure and for some of the other three segments or vice versa. Each of them will try to be in a position in a liberalised market, be competitive and that is the goal. Croatia, above all, has a competitive direction and infrastructure, and transporters can be competitive, resist foreign competition from one side, and on the other hand, I am deeply convinced to have ambition and to take advantage of the possibility to be regional and not only national operators. I therefore ask you to support this law because it will enable all of what I have said before and the realization of a better railway tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53449	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53450	Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations, the Secretary of State, who said that at the moment the privatisation takes place, there will be a law for the reason why the law defines the privatisation of public companies in majority ownership. Today, by adopting this law, we form three non-public companies, but three limited liability companies that are on the market without public authority and that is transporting passengers, transporting freight and hauling trains. More passenger transport and may be defined as public activity, although I would say by European criteria it is not but must suffer competition, but the transport of freight and tow trains does not have any public authority and they are not privatised by the basis of the law that we are going to make in the Assembly, but rather the decision of a newly formed commercial company that will manage these and we will not have anything with privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53451	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, the Legislative Committee has tabled three amendments to the nomotechnical nature, so I would like to ask you to make your point on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53452	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government accepts those amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-15-0.u53453	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours, the vote on the part of the debated points. And we still have the final proposal of the Law on the division of the company HZ - Croatian Railways. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 73 votes for, 2 abstentions and 44 against the adoption of the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
