ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33240	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of Mr. Ivo Sanader, vice presidents and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of all of you MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I express my deepest condolences to our President Vladimir Seks and his family for the death of the son of Domagoj. I am sure that I express the feelings of all of us and the faith that our president will find strength in these difficult moments in which he has sincere and warm support for us representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I added nine new points: 1. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision establishing the National Committee – Proposers are representatives’ clubs; 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the National Committee – Proposed by representatives' clubs; 3. Report of the mandate-immunity commission 4. Proposal for a law on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Bill, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 264; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 266. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Region (regional) Self-Government, First Reading, P.Z. No. 265; 7. Final draft law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 212; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 268; 9. Proposal for a law on the Police Solidarity Foundation, first reading, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 4 to 11, under points 18 and 21, sets out the laws proposed to adopt by an emergency procedure. These are: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention for the Prevention of Terrorist Attacks with Explosive Devices, with Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 251; Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb-Montenegro Minority in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 259; Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 256; Fourth. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on residence tax with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 260; Fifth. Proposal for a law amending the Law on areas of special state care with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 261; Sixth. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on areas of special state care with the Final Bill – Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 250; Seven. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, with the Final Bill, proposes an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 262; Eight. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, with the Final Proposal of the Law – Proposing the Club of Representatives of the SDP, proposes an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 249; Ninth. Proposal for a law supplementing the Financial Agency Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 252; 10. Proposal for a law on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 264; Eleven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with the Final Bill, is proposed emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 266. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Here you go. Mr. Zeljko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33241	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have an objection to the urgency of the procedure relating to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence tax. In fact, on the basis of the government's rules published, there has been a major negative reaction on the ground related to the adoption of this law, and this is how small tenants have already begun to cancel the crafts. So, second thing, the prices in tourism are determined as a rule a year in advance. So it seems rather unserious that 20 days before Easter, such a law has been passed that is in the business of travel agencies. We also believe that this bill will not reduce the black market. It is also necessary to harmonise other laws that regulate this activity directly or indirectly. Therefore, we feel that this law should go to first reading and not be brought about by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33242	Thank you very much. Mr. Lobster. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33243	Dear Vice President, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. The SDP representative club opposes an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members and representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government for a wide range of reasons. First of all, there are several very dubious provisions in this bill, such as the issue of residence and residence, such as the issue of the holder of the list, i.e. the abolition of the holder of the list, such as the issue of the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP requests that this law go into regular procedure in two readings. These two readings can be done at this session, but we think that such important changes require public debate and certainly two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33244	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Club, I object to the proposed emergency procedure of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities, P.Z. 264, as they foresee the establishment of some new units of local self-government in which no previous procedure has been introduced by law or for their establishment, the separation from one and the move to another. And since we consider it a very important area, we believe that this law should be in regular procedure and that two readings can be carried out at this session on this bill. Thank you. [[Intruder: Željko Pecek has also raised his hand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33246	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In principle, we at the HSS Club want to talk about all these proposals of the law by emergency procedure, because the Rule of Procedure says that we only adopt laws by emergency procedure if this requires the interests of the defence and other particularly justified state reasons, that is, when necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. It is also an emergency procedure to pass the laws that we are harmonising with the European Union. Today's agenda has 48 points, 2 points refer to laws that comply with the European Union, but that is why we have 12 points that are adopted by emergency procedure. We have 21 amendments and additions to the law, it's obvious that we adopt bad laws and change them too often, while at the same time covering the unhappiness of those who do not do their job in good time. We believe that there is no reason why laws or amendments to the Law on the Financial Agency are being passed by an emergency procedure, because we have been talking about the reason outside the stop shop for a year now, here we are changing two or three articles of the law by emergency procedure completely unwarranted, and of course we are also against an emergency procedure for changing cities and municipalities in office only of the upcoming local elections, because we had one year to discuss this in the Parliament without an emergency procedure. At the same time, however, we have in the agenda some laws that have been waiting six months to fit into the agenda as the Road Safety Change Act, so we at the HSS Club suggest that we define a new term that would be called passing laws by slow procedure. Because if six months are not their turn, you could probably say in the Rules of Procedure that this term is a slow procedure. So because of all this, we believe that a good part of the proposed laws under emergency procedure is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33248	Thank you very much. Mr. Antesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33249	On behalf of the club, we have an objection to the urgent procedure of passing the draft law on areas of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. As counterpart Lesar said, some units were not subject to the necessary procedures under the law and therefore we believe that this law should not be adopted in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33250	Thank you very much. We move on to a statement on the laws proposed by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention for the Prevention of Terrorist Attacks with Explosive Devices? Please, let's get involved. Please establish the quorum. The agenda can only be voted for and against, no abstentions. Give us a score. 99, we have a decision-making quorum. 18 for, a total of 99. Therefore, this is now a quorum determination, and we are now declaring ourselves to be the one for the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention for the Prevention of Terrorist Attacks by Explosive Devices. Please engage. We can vote. Here you go. Score. 97 for, 2 abstentions, no abstentions and one against. I find that most of the votes following an emergency procedure were included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Prevention of Terrorist Attacks with Explosive Devices. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Serbia-Montenegro, the Serb-Montenegro Minority in the Republic of Croatia? Please engage. We can vote. Score. I note that 97 votes for and one against an emergency procedure for the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Serbia-Montenegro, the Serbian and Montenegrin minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Third, who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal? Please engage. We can vote. Who's in or out? Score. Excuse me, for technical reasons, we're going to have to repeat this vote. Please re-engage. We can vote. Score. I find that this emergency procedure proposal has been accepted by 97 votes in favour and 3 against. Fourth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on residence tax. We have here an observation by Mr. Antesic, who opposes an urgent procedure in the adoption of this law. So, get on with it. You're welcome to vote. Score. I find that this law has been adopted, that it goes through an emergency procedure with 69 votes in favour and 32 against. Fifth, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Areas of Special State Care? You're welcome to engage. We can vote. The result? I find that this law has been accepted to proceed with an emergency procedure with 100 votes in favour and 4 against. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Areas of Specific State Care proposed by the SDP Representatives Club? Come on, come on, come on, come on, Let's vote. The result? I find that an emergency procedure with 83 votes to and 16 against has been accepted. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas? You're welcome to engage. We can vote. The result? I find that an emergency procedure has been adopted in the adoption of this Law by 93 votes in favour and 4 votes against. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas proposed by the SDP Representatives Club? Turn yourself in, please. Let's vote. The result? I find that an emergency procedure with 84 votes and 9 against has been accepted. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the Financial Agency Act? We had a general opposition to inclusion here, but the Financial Agency Act was mentioned and Mr. Zeljko Pecek made an objection to the adoption of this Act. Please engage. The vote. The result? I find that an emergency procedure for this law has been adopted by 71 votes to 26 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia for which the emergency law has been applied by Mr Lesar, the Club of HNS and PGS representatives and the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Please engage. The vote. The result? I find that an emergency procedure has been accepted with 69 votes and 31 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. For this proposal, against the proposal to be included in the agenda, we have Mr. Mršić's remarks, SDP's Representatives' Club. Please, let's get on with it. The vote. The result? I find that the proposal to be included in an emergency procedure has been adopted by 64 votes in favour and 32 against this bill. There were no objections to the agenda proposed with the call for the sitting and that agenda, in accordance with Article 203(4). Rules of Procedure, considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may, for the time being, only make objections to those points which did not contain the draft agenda accompanied by a call for a session. The proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision establishing the National Committee is set out in point 1. The proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the National Committee has been included under point 2. The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be included under point 19. Under point 23, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, first reading, P.Z. No. 265. The final proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z., was included under point 24. No. 212. Under point 25, the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act was included, first reading, no. 268. Under point 26, the Bill on the Police Solidarity Foundation, first reading, P.Z., was included. No. 267. Any of the MPs object to including any of these points in the agenda? Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, as a rule, we don't mind putting it on the agenda, but we do have an observation on the agenda. Because these are the items on the agenda at the points you said. In this way, we are actually returning to the situation in September last year when opposition objections were precisely on the agenda. In such a way, some of the points of the agenda remain permanent at the last points, so here, for example, a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act has been mentioned for 6 months now. We agreed on these objections at the Bureau of Parliament and this should follow the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. So, that the agenda points that remain from the previous session have priority and other points to be eventually. However, here is the deal now disturbed, the agreement has been failed and we do not really know whether we are going back to the situation we had before the agreement was reached and before the initiative on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33252	Thank you very much. It is not possible to change already established agendas, order, and I hope, in this respect, that we will very quickly adopt amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, and that, in accordance with your observations and even what you have said, we will act in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and those which are being amended and those which remain in force. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been determined. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the agenda, and I suggest, in practice so far, not to read the full agenda but just to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we adopt the consensus in the Croatian Parliament for the sake of the business and urgency that we need to make two decisions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wish you a good morning, we continue the session. With what we've announced. Mr. Damir Cain, come in. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wish you a good morning, we continue the session. With what we've announced. Mr. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33254	Here today to speed up the work ahead of the IDS Club, I suggest that the 8th, 9, 10th and 11th points be joined into one. Thus, the Law on areas of special state care to be discussed in parallel or together with the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. I think it would speed up the work, and since it's the same matter, it's the same thing. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33255	Thank you very much. Since two promoters are in one law and another, I think it might, if that's okay with you? With the introductions on behalf of the clubs being up to 20 minutes, so let's say that if two exhibitions are prepared, then 10 minutes at a time. And to stay, it's quite enough, I think, for ten minutes, MPs. Do we agree with that? If we agree, that's what we'll do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33256	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 204(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 13th session agenda with 4 points new. This is the proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Border Transport and Cooperation with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 271. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 270. Third, Final Proposal of the Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 210. And fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, second reading, P.Z. No. 197. If the MPs and the MPs have these keys on them, then I suggest we go to a manual vote, if they don't. Please honoring Vice President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33257	238. is a member of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm saying this because I've heard from many MPs that they didn't bring these keys today, so let's make an exception and vote by hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33258	Okay, thank you very much. Dear Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33259	... to some modifications, because there were some illogicalities in the text of legal formulations which were not precise enough. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] So, I don't know if there are any conditions to put it on the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33260	The proposal was returned in what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33261	It has been returned to the Proposer to correct some specific inaccuracies and small contradictions in the formulations particularly in the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33262	Is this a proposal for an amendment made by the Committee or by the motionor on behalf of the Government to withdraw the bill or how?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33263	We have pointed out the inaccuracies, some illogicalness in the reasons, and we have suggested that the proposer correct these things. He took it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33264	Then I won't, now she wouldn't put it in the agenda, we have tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or so. Then we'll go to this vote according to this proposal by raising hands around. I'd like to ask the quorum how many MPs and MPs there are, 91. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws, so these three, not four? Yes, but this third, on industrial property, comes, that two are in an emergency procedure, now this agreement with Croatia and BiH on border traffic and on the court register. If he doesn't. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on Border Transport and Cooperation? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 92 votes on the agenda, this final bill has been included in the emergency procedure. And who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register? Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 92 votes and this proposal, the final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the final draft law amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens? If he doesn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. We're moving on to, we're continuing the debate on the State Judicial Council Act. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović, please. In accordance with Article 204(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the 13th session agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law confirming an additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 276, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the European Convention on the control of terrorism, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 277, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 278, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 279, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 275. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. So we should vote for each of these special proposals? Dear Representative Maria Byte on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club and pursuant to Article 238a. They'd ask for a vote by raising their hands since a few MPs don't have keys right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33267	Okay. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 82 votes on the agenda, this final draft of the law has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 83 votes in favour and this Final Bill proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government? Thank you. Against? I find that with 71 votes for and 12 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens? Thank you. Against? I find that with 70 votes for and 13 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. And now we have an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. We are just discussing such a single bill in a regular procedure. This proposal is a law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. I won't suggest anything, but please decide by vote. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS? And who is it, please? I find that 14 votes are against and 69 against an emergency procedure. So this law goes into regular procedure along with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's get the MPs ready to vote. I would, before voting, in accordance with Article 204(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the 13th session agenda with the following 3 points. One is the proposal for a law on the list of voters, where the proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS PGS, it is the first reading, Proposal for Law No 248 which is addressed to me on 9 February but is related to this matter and I think we can discuss it in the next days. The second is the two laws, the amendment and addition laws on agricultural land, the emergency procedure P.Z.E. No 281, the amendments and additions to the law on marine fisheries, the same emergency procedure P.Z.E. number 282. The law for which the adoption of an emergency procedure is proposed and bearing the P.Z.E. marking. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We don't vote on an emergency procedure. Do any of the MPs have any objection to the inclusion in the agenda of any of these three proposed laws? There isn't. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33272	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to government issues, currently in the morning. The first will ask the question of Mrs. MP and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to ask Minister Calmetti a question. Mr Minister, you know that European Union countries with highway charges know more than one tariff model. Those more expensive when the burden is higher and cheaper when the burdens are lower, we could talk about the summer winter tariff. Since Croatia has not introduced such a tariff system, we have the fact that drivers avoid charging and use roads on which there are no charges. Such roads are being destroyed, and later they must be maintained, remedied from the limited resources of the Croatian roads. The question can therefore be asked whether such a business will not affect the privatisation of Croatian highways as perhaps non-profitable companies owned by Croatia, but what will certainly interest most of the citizens and people using these highways, if you think of how the resolution minister this year is introducing more expensive, summer tariffs or winter cheaper tariffs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33274	Mr. Calmeta, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33275	Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are thinking and thinking that your question is well set, but so far there have been no technical possibilities for the introduction of such a two-tariff collection system, by introducing an electronic collection system that we expect to be done by summer, or after the construction and completion of the highway to Split, all possibilities will be created for the introduction of such a system after summer as you said the summer winter prices or some other way, but in any case the two-tariff charging system on the Croatian highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33276	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33277	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed presidents of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic. Mr Minister, we know that in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme to encourage entrepreneurship, small medium and commercial companies and craftsmen are considered a driving force of the economy. We also know that changes and the development of the economic system are not possible without relying on citizens who are ready and able to take on their own initiative. State statistics show that in early 2004 102,000 185 crafts were registered with more than 140,000 employees. During 2004, there was a strong interest in opening new crafts, which clearly states that there are great opportunities for development and employment in this area. Although in your publication, your brochure "Be an Entrepreneur" has been presented in a clear and reviewed way, which is for every commendation of the national programme to encourage entrepreneurship and there are still some questions in the framework of it and craftsmanship regarding the conditions and possibility of opening the crafts. As far as I'm concerned, it's my question. What is the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship doing to enable citizens to open crafts as easily and faster as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33278	Thank you. Mr. Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Dear MPs thank you for this question, because the fact is that in the Croatian Government programme, a special focus in economic development is placed on the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. In small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the tradition of strong craftsmanship in Croatia is of special importance. Therefore, in addition to the incentive measures of credit lines for crafts, it is particularly important and to create good conditions for making it easier and simpler and I would say a cheaper opening of crafts. And we've done a few steps in that direction recently in the past few days to further encourage people to set up the crafts. We have, in the past year, a good growth in new crafts of 3.5 thousand new crafts compared to 2003 when there were about 2300 new crafts. We have a good trend and employment growth in craft somewhere around 4.3% is more employees in crafts than it was in 2003. But we also wanted to simplify the process of opening the crafts, we reduced the price of the craftsman from 500 kuna to 200 kuna. We have also reduced the number of professions needed and necessary so far to pass the master's exam, and for 42 professions here from these days will no longer be required to take the master's exam, so this is a significant bargaining of 5 to 7 thousand kunas for a single craftsman and a simpler model and way of opening the crafts. In addition, we have a series of these projects, and I just want to remind myself once again that in the 2005 entrepreneurship promotion programme at the position of crafts and crafts projects, funds totalling around 17 million kunas in the budget this year, I believe all together will create an even more positive environment to make as many people in Croatia decide to open the crafts, but that even existing crafts are developing as much and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Medinich.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33281	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your reply. I am also glad that the emphasis is put on opening crafts, because craftsmanship is the first step towards the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore such companies, and they are again the main and most important, fastest driver of development and employment of their end, their environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33282	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by a representative of Mr. Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am talking to Minister Petar Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy. The government of the Republic of Croatia and today's ministries have taken major steps towards environmental protection and waste management over the past year. As a representative, I am obliged to draw attention to the problem of dealing with cloonic or animal waste. Let's just remember the pictures we've been looking at all over Croatia for the past few years. The existing solutions due to the high distance to the Centre for the Management of Such Waste for small slaughterhouses producers of dry meat products and craftsmen from the Dalmatian Zagora area are financially unbearable. I note that in the region of Dalmatia Zagor, meat production and processing were employed by approximately 800 workers and 38 small slaughterhouses were registered. So this is just, this is not only an ecological but an economic issue. Offered by the letters listed, I ask the question, and that is the question. What does the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy intend to do about the management of animal waste in the region of Dalmatia, or Dalmatia, and in order to better protect the environment and implement the law itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33284	Mr. Minister Cobankovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative, Mr. and Mrs. Representatives. Let me try to answer this question. I agree that's a pretty big problem. The problem was expressed during the previous period and accordingly this problem is regulated so that the way animal and animal carcass waste and waste is managed is regulated by the Veterinary Act and, accordingly, by certain rules governing this problem. But I would answer you if our efforts were going in two directions. The first is that, seeing the existing adverse situation in the matter of the collection and disposal of animal waste in the Republic of Croatia, and especially in Dalmatia on the proposal of our ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is going to organise regional waste collection sites of animal origin. So we're going to go to regional assemblies that are going to be closer to objects that are authorized to slaughter and process meat and meat processing. But I'd like to point out one other thing, which I think is a much bigger problem, because the less the problem is expressed in registered slaughterhouses, with slaughterhouses working in accordance with the law and regulations, the less the problem is usually those who respect it. The bigger problem is the unregistered part of the slaughterhouses and those who work on black. And according to this, our efforts in the coming period are going to strengthen veterinary controls and inspections to prevent illegal slaughter of cattle. And I think that in this very context we should also look at our animal tag system where we have complete control over all animals on the one hand. And on the other hand, the regulations that go in the direction of surveillance and control are exactly the work of those who shouldn't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33286	Thank you. Mr. Jure Bithugnac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33287	Thank you. It's me, expressing my satisfaction with the answer. However, I must say for sure that when it comes to reacting to it as soon as possible, because it is de facto a devastation of a wider area. And I hope that within the framework of the access funds and in other ways, we will address this issue. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33288	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Agent Jenna Adam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33289	Honored Vice President, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to ask the Minister of Culture Mr. Bishop. The Croatian Reform-Christian Church is registered as a religious community in accordance with the Constitution guaranteed equality before the law. In Article 41, point (a) is The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stands. All religious communities are equal before the law and separate from the state. The religious communities are free to perform religious rituals in public, to establish schools, universities, other institutions of social and charity, and to manage them, and to enjoy the protection and assistance of the state in their activities. I do not believe that it is possible to talk about the equality of all religious communities in the Republic of Croatia, if the government restricts the action of some religious communities as it does with the Reform-Krščan Church of Hungarians in Croatia where children are not entitled to religion and the right to have the effects of civil marriage. If all religious communities are equal before the law, the exercise of their rights should not be subject to additional criteria. I ask the question why do children of the reformed Christian Church of Hungarians in Croatia not have the right to religion in school and similar churches have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33290	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, there are religious communities in schools who have concluded a deal with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on issues of common interest. The religious communities that meet these conditions shall have such a contract concluded. A reformed Christian church in Croatia has concluded such a contract and the Reformation Church was separated from the Reformed Christian Church in 1999 and does not meet the conditions for the conclusion of such a contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33292	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Adam.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33293	Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with the answer because I find it unacceptable to share children with similar and unsuitable treasures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33294	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33295	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government! I want to ask the Ministry of Economy. The IDS absolutely advocates that Croatian shipbuilding comes into possession of this famous DOC 11 in Lenac and when I say Croatian shipbuilding then among other things I think of Uljanik. On the other hand, however, Croatia's shipbuilding is except for the Oilers before the break. The losses mentioned by the Croatian press recently need to be multiplied by two and it can be said that the situation is almost the same as it was in 1995, with the fact that the overruns were empty because of the war at the time and today the overruns are full, however disastrous jobs have been affected, and it is already speculated that in order to complete the business programme in May 3rd, we need a $176.6 million guarantee that the state would take over as much as the state requires another $65.6 million, a total of $242 million. With Brodosplit, it's supposed to multiply by two. In order not only for the sake of waiting to repeat the situation as with Victor Lentz, I believe that there is something to be done. To get out of this situation, I think it would be disastrous to transfer the responsibility of one administration to another, from one government to another. The losses will continue to grow, however, because in the most unfavourable time two, three years ago, contracts have been concluded that have proved unfavourable today because each ship defacto gives its order between $10m and $20m and so much in my court has to be broken or reshape because in the opposite state it will pay billions of dollars for badly affected jobs and perhaps some shipyard will end up in bankruptcy. What does the Government intend to do to simply avoid this one painful situation at four Croatian shipyards on May 3rd, the Queen, Trogir, Brodosplit?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33296	Thank you. Minister Vukelic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33297	Thank you, Mr. Assembly Representative, for this question is really not harmless, the situation in our Croatian shipbuilding is not great and everything you have said is well known by the Croatian Government and this ministry which is responsible for shipbuilding. And I want to make a point on the one hand and remind myself that in 2002, significant funds passed by the government to restructure Croatian shipyards, that the effects of all this on the indicators we have and last year are unsatisfactory, that one detailed analysis of the implementation of this restructuring programme is being carried out in all shipyards. On the other hand, it is also clear that we have a good situation in terms of Croatian shipbuilding arrangements but that we have a situation that certain contracts concluded long ago are not good quality, and in this direction all shipyards have a warrant. I want to say clearly and loudly here that neither the Croatian Government nor anyone in Croatia is behind such bad contracts and for all shipyards I know that it is in the process and that some shifts have been made both in Split, and in 3 May and in the Queen, so all contracts previously signed are trying to revise with customers in order to recognise the real increase in costs that was in the meantime and we know first of all that the most significant price of steel has also increased the rate of dollars. As far as Croatian shipbuilding is concerned, a whole programme will be prepared which will be presented to the Croatian Government, which will also be an analysis of the programme of restructuring of all shipbuilding sites, the plan and programme of measures that should be further done in these years, which are particularly important for the entry into the European Union and thus the necessity of revising, or a clear definition of all the support that Croatian shipbuilding gets, those that are very important for their business today and those that can also not last forever. The goal is to disappear during a certain period of time, whether it is for the next five or ten years in these subsidies to support Croatian shipbuilding and to be able to produce and design a ship that will not seek subsidies and support from the Croatian state. In this direction is prepared to amend the rulebook or the new Regulation on subsidies in Croatian shipbuilding, which will also come before the Croatian government in the coming weeks. So we are aware of the gravity of the situation, but it is also certain that there are solutions and ways to help one of the most important industrial branches in Croatia, and it is a shipbuilding that stands on its own feet and continues to operate without loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33298	Thank you very much. Mr. Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33299	I welcome the government's efforts in this direction, but the fact is there's no time to wait. And to complete our shipbuilding business, it takes hundreds of millions of dollars. Where to find them, unfortunately, no one knows at this point. We sell 25 million dollars worth of ships whose market value is $20 million. Not counting subsidies, we're actually losing 30 million dollars on the boat. We had a case from Brodosplit in 2000 where they closed the boat for $13.5 million and then bought it for 31 million. On one such line, Diab from Paris made a profit of $52.5 million and nothing to anyone in this country for all of it. I only ask you to really do something and react because the situation is simply in shipbuilding almost before the exhale.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33300	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33301	Mr. Vice President, members of the government! It's a question for the Minister of Economy. Since 2000, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders has been reduced on average by around 2000 people per year so that the figure has dropped from 34 000 to 26 thousand unemployed defenders as many as it was in late 2003. At the end of 2004, however, the positive trend in reducing the number of unemployed Croatian defenders has definitely been halted and the number of Croatian defenders at the Employment Office has been increasing for several months. Question, does the Ministry of Economy or the Government plan to introduce new measures, which and within what deadline for the recruitment of Croatian defenders to stop this negative trend?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33302	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm really glad that a respected parliamentary representative is interested in defenders and their employment. That's very good, but I'd say there's no trend that should concern us when it comes to defenders and the number of unemployed in institutions. In fact, we actually have a growth in unemployment at the Employment Service this time of year. We also have in those months of spring a further good trend, and I must say that all the measures made by the Croatian Government and within the Croatian Employment Service and within the framework of the Ministry of Economy are very much directed towards the defenders and favourable conditions that they are only employed or to open new trades, to be entrepreneurs, I will remind, in particular, of the project, defenders within the programme of encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship which for the first time opened and such conditions that indeed with very favourable and interest and incentives defenders can go into this entrepreneurial enterprise. We therefore analyse the situation for and question the problem of hiring defenders as well as all other people in Croatia. The measures that we have implemented over the past years through the Employment Service are being analysed and new measures will be proposed during this year, but also through this very Ministry of Economy, through a series of programmes to encourage entrepreneurship we are trying to create and I think we have indeed created far more favourable conditions than in the past to determine and decide to go to such entrepreneurial ventures that will enable employment and defenders in this case but also clearly and people who will work potentially in such a company.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33304	Thank you very much. Mr. MP Pancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33305	It is nice that this government is not concerned with this trend of increasing the unemployment of Croatian defenders, I commend that optimism but the figures say something else. It's not winter months. According to the Employment Service, here is the data, in January of this year the number of unemployed Croatian defenders was 28 thousand 240. If the trend continued and the trend was 2,000 Croatian defenders a year to find a new job, the number of unemployed would be around 24,000 today. However, this could not have happened because self-employment funds have been reduced. They've been transferred to some other measures that these days are how I have information, and I think that the information is reliable they've been put out of force. So I'd like to ask you to provide this answer in writing. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33306	He will ask a question Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33307	Mr. Vice President, members of the government, I'd like to ask,.../The speaker shut down and re-engaged./... Four months ago, Imostroy's workers were told that they would be paid back, because only because of this, the government gave up six claims in bankruptcy amounting to 6.2 million kuna. If you look at it, it's been four months since then, and the government's decision has been six months. Today we are faced with the fact that the government did not actually give up 6.2 million kuna but 3.1 million kuna. That this amount covers the costs of the bankruptcy process and that the workers have not been obtained on the basis of this or the kuna until the day of today. My question is, how much will be paid to workers with the grounds for denying the government's right to claim the bankruptcy of Imostroy, and when will these claims be paid to them, this year or next?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33308	Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, thank you for this question, this is one of the questions on the subject of what kind of policy is being conducted by my government, we are running a policy of social sensitivity and helping the most vulnerable layers of Croatian society, which means workers in such cases as Imostroy. You said well that the government has waived its claims, admitted claims of 6.2 million, meaning 6 million and 200 thousand kuna. However, since the government couldn't have the 6, if we could have the 6.2 million kuna in our account, they would have been transferred to workers on the same day for their salaries that they hadn't received for how long. Since the government does not manage the process, the bankruptcy process, but manages the bankruptcy manager, the only thing we could do was give up our claims for the benefit of the workers. Then the bankruptcy manager, and here I hear yesterday that the trade court confirmed that these days some 4, 5, 6 million would have been paid to the workers, and in that sense I can't express dissatisfaction, I can't be satisfied, I would have been most pleased if the workers had received all the 6.2 million that the government had given up in favour of them. But since the bankruptcy manager is running this process of Imostroy, that he sold the property as much as he could, etc., I'm not defending him, but the government I'm saying simply couldn't influence the process. And now your question leads me to a dilemma that doesn't exist for me, that maybe we shouldn't give it up because I hear it from your question. No, I think this was the right decision by the government to give up in favour of the workers, and the fact that it's about bankruptcy and by all laws, the government couldn't pass it all on to the workers, that's unfortunately so. So I think we've made a good decision, and I think yesterday, according to information that I haven't yet been confirmed, to start paying off, the Ministry of Finance has done everything, and I hope that today or tomorrow, the payment will begin in that amount that is possible under the bankruptcy procedure. Once again, if we could have been Government, if we had this instrument as Government, all the 6.2 million we gave up to pay the workers we would have done it, and unfortunately it wasn't us but the complete bankruptcy manager's procedure was like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33310	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Capralevich.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33311	From this explanation of yours, it seems to me that the government didn't know about the bankruptcy act, so it's likely that these are the kind of misunderstandings. Because it was coming out to the workers of the 2.8 million kuna, and the workers of the 3 million kuna, and the workers of the 4.2 million kuna. I'd ask if it's possible in writing, when you say we're not socially sensitive and not taking care of the workers, I'd ask you to write to me what caused these misinformation to be explained. And I would also ask you to say whether the government will forgive other companies as well as its debts?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33312	I didn't hear the Prime Minister accuse anyone of being socially insensitive. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33313	Dear Vice President, members of the government, I would like to refer the matter to the prime minister. Obviously, the time has come for defenders to create their own political option that will defend their interests and ideals. That option, as I see it, should have its political and military wing. The former leader of the Central Staff for the Defence of Homeland War, retired Colonel Mirko Chondic, said that. At a time when he aggressively called for the violent destruction of Racan's government in essence of a coup, you were a regular guest of all his performances and publicly spoke of your full support. My support for the destruction of the legally elected government didn't have it then, neither today. The same principle is difficult to expect from you, but my question is not about the principles but about the security of the country and respect for the Constitution. What does it say, as president of the Croatian government, are you thinking of doing against those who announce the establishment of a party army?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33314	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33315	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, thank you for this matter. I think that's one of the strongest at the moment. First of all, I want to get back before I answer what the government is going to do, I want to comment or deny what you said because Mirko Čondić is a man who was in the Homeland War, who came out of the Homeland War with disabilities and needs to acknowledge the merits he did in the Homeland War for Croatia. His political action, however, is very questionable. And then when I was the leader of the opposition today. And it's not true that I've been to every one of his gatherings, but it's true that, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, when your government led a policy towards defenders like us, I reacted, and then I was with the defenders. But I have always and ever sharply criticised those political views that would go beyond democratic standards as it is today. In addition, Mirko Candic is a member of the Croatian bloc, not the HDZ, only so much so that it is known that a party with a military wing will be formed is absolutely undemocratic and inadmissible. And no establishment comes into consideration because Croatia is a stable democracy and be sure that my government will do everything possible to ensure that the stability and functioning of democracy and all democratic institutions are maintained. No matter what debates I think are going on these days, the European Union or dignity is absolutely wrongly set up. I'm talking to each other. Both dignity and the European Union. I therefore call on those forces and thank you for this question, for the opportunity to call on behalf of the Government and those forces that they believe should not go and that they are skeptical towards the European Union. And it is a democratic right and they have the right to do so, but we will not allow anyone, no matter what his name is, no matter what political options he has been to question the reached democratic standards and stability, and the country's internal political stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33316	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33317	Mr. Prime Minister, I am extremely pleased with your response and the announcement that you will not allow Mirko Condic or anyone else to establish a party army. In that sense, I urge you to call security services to conduct a conversation with Condic to ask him to explain... And I'm saying I'm extremely pleased, although I don't remember that at the time of Racan's government and in the time of the aggressive Chondic's advances, you were so radically fenced from his statements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33318	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33319	Dear Vice President, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question. I ask this question at the request of the Union of Fishermen and Fishermen from Dalmatia, Mr Baranovic. Is it true that the Government is considering the possibility of allowing and the possibility of fishing for members of the European Union in 2006 not only in the economic belt but also in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33320	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister here, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I don't know where you got that, that information. I've heard it for the first time. So tell me, I beg you on behalf of the government to those who have you and who have given you that question to ask me for the first time I've heard of it. I don't even know what this is about. So there is no discussion or any negotiations with the Government with the European Union in this regard. There is something else that I announced when we asked for a postponement of the application of the fishing-environment zone to the members of the Union because as a candidate country we owe as much as anything else and we want to end up wanting to sign a fisheries partnership agreement with the European Union. That fishing partnership as well as itself, the word itself says is never unilateral. It must bring benefits to both Croatia and the European Union and only these negotiations should begin, I hope that they will be finished quickly and of course we will inform both you and all fishermen in public. But there's no talking about what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33322	Thank you very much. Mr. Attorney Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33323	Mr. Prime Minister, I am extremely pleased with your response. I think both fishermen and the Fisher Union are also very pleased, but regardless, I would ask you in writing to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33324	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivan Drmic will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33325	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen and Madam Ministers. I would have one question for Mr. Marijan Mlinarić, Minister of the Interior, and it concerns a freshly issued solution to determine the test centres for conducting the driver's exams in the Republic of Croatia. That solution was reached by a decision by the minister and entered into force on 2 May this year. I would ask the minister if it was finally agreed and whether there is a possibility of a change in that solution to make it a little more flexible because this solution is envisaged throughout the country means that there are 20 test centres for passing driver's exams. I think it mostly refers to county centres or county centres with the exception of Istria. In my opinion and in the opinion of the people I spoke to on the ground, this solution also has certain illogicalities so that the example of the Vinkovci residents must go to Vukovar where the transport infrastructure is in a much worse condition than it is in Vinkovci. Also from Velika Gorica, there must be an example in Zagreb, and the fact is that Velika Gorica also has one very good transport infrastructure, i.e. between 5.6 cities in size in the country. It's also illogical that driver's exams can't take place in that city. There are also cities like Imotski, Metkovic. These are cities that are very far from the county center so that one such trip to the driver's exam will result in an additional blow to the standard of citizens. I come from Djakov, and that's where I passed it. I can tell you that's where I passed with some of the experience I've gained these years, and I think I'm a solid driver and I've been driving in most of the big cities around Europe. So I know firsthand that you can pass a very good driving test in those small towns. Here, my question is is, is there any chance that the solution is made to change, to have a little flexibility, to move these criteria a little bit, to get at least some bigger cities besides the county centers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33326	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Marian Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this question. I've already given this question to about ten, twenty representatives in writing, but as many mayors have already asked that question, so that's a very interesting question right now. I'd like to take a few words to paint the situation that made us go to a solution like this. The driving exams in Croatia have been conducted in 155 places so far. In certain test places, there were no minimum necessary traffic and technical conditions in order to carry out the tests uniformly for all citizens and not, and at professional level, which was reflected in the quality of the training of new drivers. And the proposal in neighbouring Republic of Austria has eight test centres. We've been in a situation, there's eight test centers. We had 155. We were faced with a catastrophic traffic situation that we all witnessed. That's why we passed the Road Safety Act that brought some results. You know, I've already said that in this House how many fewer deaths are less injured, how many fewer car accidents in just six months. So in 2002, Croatia had 14.3 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, in 2003 as many as 15.9 people died per 100,000. And in 2004, in only six months, we managed to reduce the average for the whole year to 13.8 dead to 100,000 people. And now they're already above us and the Czech Republic and Hungary and Portugal and the United States with 14.8. However, we are still not satisfied with the education of our young drivers who from 300,000 to 24 years of age have as much as 240 000 driver licenses. Which is 12% of the total number of drivers. However, in traffic accidents they participated with 18% and in the mortality of the victims in some years and up to 25%. Which proves indirectly that they are not well-educated and sufficiently educated. And that was why we wanted to centralize the test centres to raise them to a certain level, and only at that first moment to be satisfied and justice we decided to be county centers. Because all the other conversations would go on to make it difficult to establish the limit as long as there was a re-expansion of the test centres. So in the first time we've already talked on this commission that's been working on it, the first step would be to extend the theoretical part of the exam to most of the cities that will have conditions. It means most of the cities. The theoretical part of the exam. So tests and first aid. And if any of the cities are still going to have technical conditions because there are special test committees and so on, then we'll be able to consider possible expansion and by which test centre. This laying down theory and first aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33328	Thank you. Finish the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33329	It comes in larger numbers and here in smaller numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33330	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Drmic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33331	I would agree with the minister only in this section that we need to be the goal of reducing the number of traffic accidents. But I think you're the wrong way, I think you're the wrong way to pull those, so to speak, administrative boundaries. If order was already to be introduced in this area, criteria should be laid down to meet certain cities. Is it a number of traffic lights, a circular current, that is, those conditions that have been met in traffic. And then to create a picture that the city has the conditions to hold these driving exams and which doesn't have this kind of thing, I don't think that's good, and that's the illogicality in Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33332	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President, members of the government. I'm asking the question to Mr. Peter Cobankovic. On the first day of February, a party letter was received in all HDZ local officials of Vukovar-Srijem County asking the HDZ Office to deliver a description of projects that could be financed by the Regional Development Fund's budget money. In that memo, I quote. "All the collected projects will be forwarded to Minister Petar Cobankovic for the sake of better quality resolution of your demands and the allocation of the planned funds for the current year." Minister Cobankovic, from this memo is a clear and clear intention to split funds from the budget fund to your party colleagues. Therefore, the state's money is intended to buy citizens' affection before local elections, only in those units of local self-government where HDZ has a leader. I ask you, Mr. Minister, why did you do so? Why did you send the memo only to your party colleagues and not to all the local self-government leaders? Does that mean, Mr. Minister, that you cannot or may not want to accept the fact that you are the minister of all citizens and that you must take care of the situation and the improvement of all. Not about those who live in local self-government units where the HDZ has a voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33334	Thank you. Mr. Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I will remind you of just the same fact that I am, apart from being Minister alone and President of the Croatian Democratic Community of Vukovar-Srijem County since 2002. And that's the usual practice where the county office collects all the projects.../the speaker has excluded the development of certain units of local self-government. And according to this and this year, it's normal for me as chairman of the County Committee to see what units of local self-government have prepared and nominated for certain funds. I see nothing wrong with that, but I am the resident of Vukovar Srijem County. My family lives there today, I am, alone here in Zagreb on temporary work. And I believe that I have the moral and every other right to care and care for the space of Vukovar-Srijem County. And according to that, it's a party memo and I'm chairman of the County Committee. As president of the Croatian Democratic Union's County Committee, I cannot send a letter to the commissioners from some other parties. Because I don't think that would be right. The letter was not sent by me as a minister or a memo to the ministry, but to a memorandum by the Croatian Democratic Community of the County Committee. And I don't see anything wrong but it was a common practice until I was a minister. And with that kind of work, I'll continue in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33336	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33337	Thank you very much. It's good for you, Mr. Minister, to take care of the local environment you come from. I can truly understand your response as Minister of course and all the difficulties of duality of the roles you are in. A lot of concerns you're concerned about and as a party official of a county where it's really hard to live. But primarily, I think that you must take care of as a state official as a minister and all other parts not only of Vukovar-Srijem County but also of other parts of Croatia and not only of units in which HDZ is in power. I would be extremely pleased as one of the local officials if I were such a memo or if we got such a memo from the address of your ministry, and you personally. However, as this is missing and the information that I have, it is the same party principle that your colleagues from other parts of the Republic of Croatia have done, so from the Posavina County that I come from. I call on you, Mr. Minister, to take care, however, of the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia as a minister, to support all those projects that were in priority no matter where they came from, so be the environment in which you are not in power. I have before me a set of such memos that we sent to the fund. I think it would be the least you and the government can do for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33338	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Madam Representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers of fellow Members and colleagues. I will ask my question to the Prime Minister. It has often been mentioned in recent months by Sladoran in County. It was built in 1947, and that decade it was the basis for the development of our entire region and for the safety of its employees and co-operatives. And here's the 95th time the privatisation started, and I'd say domestic people who misused an inconsistencies of small shareholders and acquired ownership of Sladoran. And in just three years, they created obligations of 437 million kuna. Fortunately, Sladoran was rehabilitated and now successfully operating ion returns all its liabilities and reprogrammed debts of 145 million and here in 2002, it had a profit of 33 million, 2003. 24 million have also invested in the development of around 40 million kuna and is now re-privaced and it is normal that employees and co-operatives and the whole area are upset because they are afraid of experience from past privatisation. I'm going to ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, since one part of my question has already been resolved, which is that the tender has been annulled, as much as I'm extremely pleased and happy about it, so I'm just going to ask this other part of the question, are you going to support a kind of working stock which is the ambition of both workers and management but also of the cooperatives, there are about a thousand of them. And here I wouldn't, I definitely have to mention the small shareholders here, the 227 that didn't sell their shares and they were paying them off, and they actually became the biggest losers now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33340	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I answer this question to Mrs. Lelic, I will say that today the rules on driving exams and a new one will be withdrawn. As far as these are concerned, the tender has been annulled, I think it's a good decision of the Privatisation Fund. And it's also a good decision of the Management Fund to give management an order to the Supervisory Board to change management, because a great opportunity has been missed in that public tender for quotas issued by the state, where the administration which publicly admitted that it had failed and did not compete for it. That's the way it is, the gap itself has reduced the value of Sladorana. Therefore, we will certainly have in the new competition a chance for all those who have competed so far to offer what they consider to be good at that time, but we will also take care of small shareholders and think about protection, that we should also take care of the protection of rights. We're having a big debate whether or not the stockholder's office needs to be held. I think that discussion should be approached from market principles and not by ideological principles. That's what my government will represent. Therefore, if workers make a good offer in the new competition, I think that an absolute fund should be decided on the principle of best offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33342	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33343	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. So I'd just like to say that all these privatisations and working stockings that I generally support should make sure that it is in direct and indirect damage that would result from a reduction in the number of unemployed, reduced contributions to health, pension, employment, and not talking about the suffering and fate of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33344	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33345	Mr. Minister Kalmeta, as unfortunately you know about 30,000 trucks by the end of the year according to the existing Law on Road Transport, Croatia must be out of business, i.e. they cannot carry out their entrepreneurship activities. It's certainly a disaster for our autocarers. This law, in the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, is questioned from the constitutional and legal position, i.e. the constitutional principle of freedom of entrepreneurship and protection of ownership, i.e. the means of working must comply with technical standards. This is about trucks, not years of age, that have been in the law of a truck for 18 years. However, the question arises whether our car drivers need trucks in the first place. In the case of the construction of a bypass around Vrbovac and the follow-up of the fast road to Bjelovar, that is a big question. Because it can be said that for domestic car transporters, everything is still in the air and they're not sure about the job. For this reason, Mr. Minister, we think of our entrepreneurs by allowing them to carry out their activities, or concrete jobs, but by laws, we prescribe such risky provisions that will result in just the opposite effects. If you can even revive this law, don't give God, which is what the buyers will do, which is what our car drivers will be able to buy those younger trucks, or God give us a new one. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, why didn't you condition "Croatian Roads" that in the competition part of the business, 20, 30% give domestic entrepreneurs along the road in construction as co-operatives here the company "Strabac" which received from the "Croatian Roads" job and what you will do to achieve it in the case of Vrbovac. I must warn you that entrepreneurs will not calmly watch someone take away their job and that in these difficult economic conditions with the said law, which must in any way change calmly at home and fear for its existence. Mr. Ministers, you must know that over 100 entrepreneurs from the Vrbovac area, Zeline, Križevci, Bjelovar are involved in the search for this job with the support of all three mayors, all the mayors from this... /The speaker has been excluded./... in the protection of carrier entrepreneurs there is also an obligation for you. So don't miss your chance to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33346	Thank you very much. Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33347	Well, here's my answer. There are two questions here. When it comes to your first question regarding that provision in the age law, age 18, I have to say and explain that it is one reference provision, which means it is not mandatory. After all, there are no sanctions unless it's done. We wrote it in law because we think it's 18 years old and that trucks and buses over 18 are really that it's time to change then, to buy younger ones. However, we know what the situation is, we know that it is not easy, simply for a whole series of reasons primarily financial and material, so this regulation is referring and is not an obligation. When I answer your other question then I must say that I absolutely understand and support you, not only you but all these entrepreneurs who want and want to work on this building stock, Vrbovac-Gradac in the length of 15 kilometers and here and for information to all MPs and the public that it is an investment that weighs 300 million kuna. Here, this job, it's about building a section of the road, fast four-track road. The job was awarded to the company Strabak d.o.o. Zagreb and certainly they will need co-operatives. It's hard to call a tender to condition, nor can it be conditioned anything, you know that as well as I do. But here I will inform you that one such meeting with the Strabag was held in the Croatian Roads, where they were recommended and here it almost insisted that as many domestic operatives as possible be involved in the construction of this road. So here I am from this place, if that means anything to the performers, I appeal to the maximum of the domestic operatives in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33348	Thank you. Mr. Representative Pankretić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33349	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I believe this appeal of his will come to the Strabaks and we will achieve here's a common intention. And if I can conclude on this first part, it means that our carriers should not respect this referring decision regarding the age of the truck, which is very important and that the Croatian public knows it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33350	Thank you very much. The question now comes from Mrs. Jelena Pavicic's representative Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to refer my question to Mr. Polancec, the newly appointed Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. Mr. Polancec, here is a really respecting fact that you are on this new duty indeed for a short time, I wonder if you, as Deputy Prime Minister, have a concrete plan for this area to improve Croatia's economic position in order to reduce by galloping the growing external debt, in order to increase employment and social security, ensure wage growth as well as general economic growth. I wonder if you can list at least five economic measures that would increase economic efficiency in Croatia, i.e. The five economic programmes with which you will justify the confidence of the Prime Minister and this Parliament before the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33352	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your distinguished parliamentary representative on this occasion and on the matter. First of all, let me take a few words to look at macroeconomic indicators that don't exactly say what you're saying and that don't confirm that we're in such big trouble. So as far as macroeconomic indicators are concerned, we have a stable economic system, we have indicators that show a trend of improvement in any segment. If we're talking inflation, inflation is stable. If we're talking about GDP growth, he's and he's planning to speed up even more. If we're talking about export growth then the indicator shows that export coverage is getting better and better. The same trend as it was in last year continues in January. If we're talking about growth in gross wages then you can see that the growth in gross wages for last year is above inflation growth and the cost of life. If you're looking at net pay growth, you'll get exactly the same indicators. So we're not in as much trouble as we could from the media by reading the impression. However, this does not mean that there are no areas in the economy that need to be seriously considered and improved business in these individual segments. I'm going to list here that there are neural points, so I'm going to call it that, don't blame me on that expression, where restructuring is necessary, where continuous improvements are necessary, where reforms may be necessary. We were already talking about shipbuilding today, which must be one of the segments I'm going to deal with in particular. After the shipbuilding, I would like to mention problems in black metallurgy, i.e. related to ironworks, in aluminium production. We also need to improve our business in agriculture especially in large PICs and to intensify the privatisation that will greatly help us in this segment and let us not forget the problems we also have in the Croatian Railways. I will personally deal with all these entities, i.e. industrial branches. I believe that there is enough competence and knowledge in the resolution ministries that business in these segments can be significantly improved. I also want to mention more problems with the wood industry, textiles and shoe industry, and I see those solutions. So here we need restructuring, here we need cuts, here we need reforms, on the other hand we have segments where we need more and stronger to encourage the development of these segments. I'm going to mention tourism at this point, I'm going to mention healthy food production, I'm going to mention a processing industry that normally fills our GDP with 80% and has good indicators. I'm going to mention encouraging all those sub-borders in the processing industry that have export potential. I'm going to mention a little and medium entrepreneurship that is ours definitely, which is our strategic commitment and where I have to say that indicators are getting better and that they are growing, that therefore small and medium entrepreneurship is increasingly and better involved in creating a GDP. As far as another very important thing is concerned, we need to speed up privatisation. Privatization I'm definitely aware of the pain,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33354	You want to finish the vice president?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33355	Thank you very much. So we'll speed up the privatisation as with much more work, energy, effort, and I believe the results will get better and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33356	Thank you very much. Ms. Pavičić Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33357	Mr Polancec, I am really pleased that you have managed to gain insight into the problem of the Croatian economy in this short time. But I asked you if you had a concrete proposal for measures or programmes, and I asked you for the reason that a draft national development programme has been published today in a daily newspaper, where it is said that the government will go on to raise excise duties, that there will be a further age-long retirement limit, that 100,00 kuna will be excluded in the pension calculation and 6% increase in what was agreed between HDZ and HSU. That you'd be in entrepreneurship, for example. return the so-called business angels who will obviously further strengthen 200 rich families in Croatia and I really don't understand how this means increasing employment and social security especially if we have in the past year the number of unemployed in Croatia has increased from 295 thousand to 330 thousand. I would ask you in writing whether based on this national strategy or on your insight, concrete programme measures as to how you intend to increase economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33358	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zddenko Antešić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before asking the question, I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister for supporting the position of the profession and the public regarding the abolition of the rules on the professional examination of the driver and I believe that the minister will bring a new one in line with that view. I'm asking Minister Cobankovic. On the Kvarner Islands, Cres, Krka and Rab, the presence of indigenous species of game such as wild pigs, bears has been observed in the past few years, and especially the nail that causes great damage to sheep herds. So, for example. in the islands of Cres and Krk in the last few years, it has been reported that over a thousand and 500 sheep and lambs have been injured, with the number of deaths recently increasing dramatically. In the last few months alone, about 300 sheep and lambs have been killed on Rab Island, which was determined by the presence of Rab about a year ago. We know that this autochthonous game is multiplying at a high speed and thus threatens the real disaster of shepherding on the islands. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, what you've done as a competent minister in this regard, or what you intend to do to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33360	Thank you very much. Mr. Coffankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33361	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, I think this is a very complex problem and I will provide you with a written answer and what has been done so far and what will be done in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33362	Thank you very much. He'll ask a question, Mr. Representative, and here you go, Mr. Antesic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33363	I wanted to, I understand he hasn't done anything yet, I understand that from this data. But I'd just like to draw your attention to the extent of that damage. If those sheep that were destroyed by this indigenous game were to line up next to each other, it would be a row from Mark’s square to about Ljubljana Avenue. And I also draw your attention to the Law on Islands that says that the islands prohibit the introduction of an indigenous species of game. Also, the minister in charge is obliged to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33364	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33365	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Croatian Prime Minister. I ask the question of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. The town of Vrlika is the only city in Split-Dalmatia County that has the nearest access to the highway via another county, in this case Sibenik-Kninska. The County Road Administration of Split-Dalmatia County built part of the road Vrlika – Drnis on its territory and more than 8 km away. Sibenik-Knin County, the County Road Administration during this time should have built about 6km and not built a single meter. Is it because of the lack of money or political judgment that they don't need that road, in any case, Mr. Minister, the Vrlica should not be punished for it. So I ask if the Budget for this and the next 2 years is planned to build the road Vrlika – Drniš? And finally, as a representative of the 9th Election Unit, I am interested in whether the same period in the State budget provides for the reconstruction of the unconditional road Sibenik – Drniš – Knin, which was built for carriages and wagons, and today they say it has meaning and they call it the spine of the Sibenik-Knin County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33366	Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33367	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Road Vrlika – Drniš I agree with you, a very important road, a very important road. However, it is a county road and under the law it can be financed and must be financed from the County Road Administration, in this case by Sibenik. I believe they will find financial strength and opportunities to do so. If not this year, I'm sure next year. Well, if not alone, then with some help. The second part of the issue concerns the reconstruction of the road from Sibenik to Drnis to Knin. There are planned activities and significant activities somewhere in the length of over 20 kilometers will be reconstructed on the Drniš – Pakovo village 10.1 km long. The Beterment programme will improve the construction and quality of the wheel, and in the context of the merger of the highway on the rest of the road network we plan to move part of the road D33 from the Adriatic highway to Tromlje, on a new track in the length of 8 km. The same will be connected to the Sibenik knot, a knot on the Zagreb – Split highway. Also in Razina – Dubrava, Sibenik knot is in construction. It is nearly 5km long, and this second branch from Sibenik to Tromilla, there is an ongoing entry of a local permit, so that after that, too, clearly after obtaining all the necessary documents, it will begin to be built. As I said before, over 20 kilometers of this very important road along with these dates on the highway and the hub is in construction and it's planned in this... Period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33368	Thank you very much. Mr. Rebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33369	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This second part of the question is actually good because this government really does a lot in road construction and access roads. However, this first part of the issue if the Sibenik-Knin County Road Authority says there is no funds or no political will. So, I think this road of Vrlika – Drniš should enter no matter what rank it is. It's access roads on the highway, and I hope that this time should solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33370	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Kyo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33371	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I refer the question to Mr. Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta, and it concerns the rights of the blind to use parking spaces intended for disabled persons. Explanation. In July 2004, the Road Safety Act was adopted, after which an implementing act was adopted in the form of a Regulation implementing the same Act, and thereby implementing Article 40, which recognises the right to a sign of accessibility only, quotes: "to persons with disabilities whose lower extremities are significantly damaged by preventing normal movement". My question is, Mr. Minister, I ask you on behalf of the Croatian Union of the Blind, your personal name, agreeing with the principle that the right has a person, not a vehicle to answer us. Is it possible to correct the current situation, help this category of disabled people, and thus facilitate their daily movement and life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33372	Thank you very much. Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33373	Thank you very much. It's certainly possible to change and help, and I think that would be correct and should be done. However, I must refer you to the procedure. Namely, the Road Safety Act is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, and this Regulation that you are talking about, it is indeed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development and is made with the help of other ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior, etc. However, it is important to stress that when drawing up that Regulation, it was necessary to comply with the provisions of Article 40 of that Regulation. Road safety laws, i.e. to determine the appearance of the sign, the conditions for its acquisition, the way of marking, etc., but only for persons with disabilities whose lower extremities are significantly damaged as stated in the Law. If there is a wish for this category of blind persons, if additional rights are to be given to them, then the article of the Law should be amended. So, you need to go to an amendment to the law, which is then in the Internal Affairs Ministry's intelligence. So here's what I'm telling you, if you do, and I think it's a good initiative to then initiate an amendment of the law to the Ministry of the Interior in order to regulate the question and rights of the blind persons to use the accessibility sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33374	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Bucan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33375	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I've referred the question to you for the simple reason why this rule is signed on your part. On the basis of which units of local self-government issue or do not issue such permits. Here, I thank you for your response on behalf of the Croatian Union of the Blind, and I will make sure, here, that we co-ordinate our personal initiative together through and on behalf of the Minister of the Interior and your Ministry this delicate question for such an extremely sensitive category of disabled people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33376	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33377	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I have a question for the Minister of the Primorac, who is already a little out of the ordinary on this "Current Hour", but I think Mr. Secretary of State will be able to provide an answer. Namely, several days ago with a delay of one semester, which is totally unacceptable, the results of the competition for the award of state student scholarships were announced. Mr. Secretary of State, for the first time since student scholarships have been awarded in the Republic of Croatia, the number of students who received these scholarships has been reduced this year. In the Notice on the Ministry's website, I quote: "The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is aware that a certain part of students because of limited opportunities did not exercise the right to scholarship". Very interesting justification for the limited possibility. Fellow Members and colleagues know that these limited opportunities occurred when the 2004 budget remained, which was reduced by 3 million kuna for the 1005th grant. At the same time, everyone, among other things, was rejected, and my amendments were required to equalise the grant funds at least to that item and to that level that was in 2003. Refusing the amendments, Mr. Minister reiterated publicly and several times that not only would there not be a reduction in student scholarships but that their number would increase according to pre-election promises. Now that the number of state student scholarships users has clearly been reduced, when it is obvious that they gave up a pre-election promise that was obviously just a crazy joy, I'm just wondering if you'll also give up your pre-election promise to pay the students back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33378	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33379	Mr. Vice President, the truth is the decision on state scholarships is too late. Namely, the original intensities of the ministry were to really increase the amount of scholarships from the current 600, 700 and 800 kuna, to all 1000 kuna, in the given circumstances and at the request of the students themselves, the Ministry also gave up the idea and returned their request to earlier amounts. Of course, this idea of increasing the amount of scholarships had to take place in the financial frameworks set, which meant that the number of beneficiaries of these scholarships was lower because the total amount was, unfortunately, limited. That is, about the amount and the delay. ... be said and we have announced this, we have announced that part of the funds has been reserved for the announced openings of two and three higher universities since the next academic year, as we know intensive preparations are being made for the start of the university in Knin and the university in Vukovar as well as universities in Pula. We have also reserved certain funds for those students who are due to enroll in the fall, and therefore, when they take into account the number of scholarship beneficiaries in the given frameworks, they would be the same. Here is more explanation and explanation than justification because like you and we are dissatisfied and with the final amount of financial scholarship in which these solutions can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33380	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Marija LUgarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33381	I agree with the explanation and explanation of Mr. Secretary of State, and I hope that in the 2006 budget we will return the amounts to those who were in 2003 and since you have not answered me at all the questions I asked, so I will repeat it, and that is also whether you will give up the pre-election promise that you will pay back to the students as you gave up the pre-election promise to increase the number of scholarship users and you have not answered that question at all, I ask you the written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33382	Thank you very much. It may also provide a written reply. Thank you very much. With this we would now take a break by exactly 12 o'clock, the first Mr Emil Tomljanovic to ask the question and I call on the presidents and ask the presidents of parties and clubs to meet us in the cabinet of the President of the Parliament now for an agreement for tomorrow's continuation of work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President Vladimir Seks called me 15 minutes ago, because he heard about the idea that tomorrow would not be a session of the Parliament. He begged that the Parliament's session be held tomorrow after all. However, I must say that, on the exception, all party presidents and club presidents have taken their stand so that tomorrow would not be a session of the Parliament because we will have in Mirogo at 10 o'clock, where we assume most parliamentary representatives or all will want to be, and then going to Osijek is about 13 o'clock at the funeral. Well, here it is, although the President of the Parliament asked that, if it is possible to hold a session of the Parliament, it is still the conclusion of all the clubs and party presidents that tomorrow there will be no session of the Parliament. We will see to it that we make up for that day on another day that does not hold regular sessions of the Parliament, and that will all depend on our agenda and how we will do it, so hopefully we will make up for the total satisfaction of all this matter in some way. That's what I wanted to say at first. I thank you all. And now we'd move on to asking parliamentary questions. The first is Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer the parliamentary question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr. Branko Vukelic, so I see that he is not here, so I am also forwarding Mr. Secretary of State to Mr. Vrankovic. In particular, it is said that the ministry and the Croatian electricity industry are planning to take action to resolve the problem of electricity supply under Velebit settlements from the town of Senj to the municipality of Karlobag, especially the electricity supply of the settlement of the town of Štnica, Štnica, Klada, St. Yuri. A brief explanation. In the area concerned as well as in the above areas, electricity supply is mildly said to be unsatisfactory. Households and other consumers are very often, and even during the tourist season they remain without electricity. Correction of permanent installations takes really days. In this sense, we have expressed dissatisfaction not only with the domicile population, but also with entrepreneurs who want to return to this population-devasted area and start development in the first order of tourism, as well as other economic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs. Here, allow me a brief review and an answer to this question. At the very beginning, I would like to give just a few information exactly where this area is concerned, meaning the area concerned by the coastal area of Ličko-Senj County, from the village of Bunica in the north to the settlement of Saint Mandalina in the south, which includes larger towns of Senj and Karlobag. And a total of 161 settlements. It is characteristic that this area has relatively few inhabitants on that large geographical area and with low specific electricity consumption. The very supply of electricity provided by the Senj hydropower plant over 35Kw ground and underground... water powered by transformer stations. We have four main transformers in Senj, Jurjevo, Biluca, Karlobag and Rizvanushi. And maybe technically another data total... the area concerned is only 5 megawatts. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Assessment of the current situation. As regards the capacity of existing transformers cells, they satisfy the existing situation. The 10, 20kw voltage level network meets the energy needs of the existing state, but does not provide spare power. For extremely difficult extreme meteorological conditions, it is thought of wind, salt, ice, the elements of the network have accelerated aging resulting in a statistically large number of malfunctions and interruptions. The need for large financial investments, maintenance and reconstruction of the network. For the sake of large financial resources necessary for the complete recovery of the network, for very difficult conditions of drive, this condition has been present practically for decades from the start of ratification until today. What activities we take to resolve this unfavourable situation. There is currently a full analysis and a programme of energy development... of the area, and a recovery of the technological state of the existing network of 35, 10 and 20kw in order to resuscitate the situation caused by extreme weather conditions. The deadline for an idea solution is the beginning of this month, so practically what's over. For the whole recovery, just to tell you financially as planned, the existing networks and 35, 10 and 20kw need cca 60 million kuna, so the recovery project will take place in a phase over a few years. That's what we planned for 2005. In 2005, HEP distribution envisions the following activities. Cable part 35Kw of the Senj-Biluch power line in the length of 7.7km. Then complete recovery of power lines 10 and 20Kw from Bilucha station to Jablanc. Then we plan project documentation for the recovery of power lines 10 and 20Kw Jablanac-Karlobag. And the fourth is that we are preparing idea solutions for the production of additional 110 and 20Kw substations in Karlobag. Undersea cable 20Kw from Mouse to Stinica and submarine cable 20Kw from Ziglen to Prizna. Normally with this we'd like to give a broader one. So if we get out of this coastal area, unfortunately in the area of the entire Lika-Senj County there are still a number of settlements in the interior that have no electricity unfortunately, and they had it before the aggression on Croatia and are now practically working on a full solution for all these places.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33386	Finish up, Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33388	Thank you very much. Mr Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33389	I'm satisfied with the exhaustive response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33390	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, the honourable members of the government. The question is Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Mr. Cobankovic. The situation in Croatian Fisheries is well known, characterized by the weariness of the equipment, the ship's obsolescence, so one multi-year-old does not care about the Croatian-Feeding Fleet, it is characterized by the absence of an organised fish market, we do not have a wholesaler. So we have cases that one kilo of ass Italian fishermen get from 12 to 13 euros for him, Croatian fishermen unfortunately only 2 euros. I think it best symbolizes reality and relationships. It also characterizes the state of fishing of high fuel prices. Also when a Croatian fisherman wants to stop his activity professionally, so he wants to return his license, his crafts license, his professional work license, he gets about a thousand, two euros in Croatia, these are our occasions unfortunately. In Italy, the same professional fisherman to return his professional license will receive almost between 200 and 300 thousand euros. These are the real differences that unfortunately exist. But we have witnessed that the situation in Croatian fishing if we see it unfortunately through the last two tragic and unfortunately very tragic events that have occurred. One occurred ten days ago when a large 18-metre stake in the great storm died at the border of the National Park "Kornati" and only for the reason that people and by this storm had to go fishing because it was their only way to survive and feed their families. Even more tragic event, these people were saved thank God, happened in Omis when, unfortunately, there was still no member of the 10-metre chariot being found for that same reason feeding his family had to head towards the apple to the open sea with an unsuitable boat unfortunately, but there was a tragedy. It's on one side of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33392	Question, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33393	I'm asking a question as well as a colleague of the Secretary of State, I hope you'll give me a few seconds to ask a question. On one side, we have great care through programs, projects. On the other hand, we have as much as a heavy dissatisfaction of fishermen. How can we not ask my question globally and broadly but how will these two families who have been killed lose their means of working, their means of life? Unfortunately, some lives ended tragically. How will we help the Croatian public hear specifically on a good example, and then those plans we have brought will probably have a better and safer way to end where they should end. Mr. Minister, my question is whether and how will you help these people to continue their lives for those who have remained alive to allow their fishing activity to continue? They can't do it without the help of your ministry, government and society. Therefore, they need help now and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33394	Thank you very much. Before answering, this if we had allowed a little longer to ask questions about the nature of the question, but I am asking the other MPs to stick to it anyway... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I agree with you that the situation in fishing is very complex, very difficult, that the weariness of ships and the age of ships is very high. For these reasons, this ministry where I am headed together with the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and with the Ministry of Economy and Social Care is working and has developed a programme to restore the fishing fleet where we will go very stimulatingly into this programme. The fact is, and you know it well that this programme was started last year, that there were certain disagreements or rather between a part of the great fishermen, between fishermen who are craftsmen but here we have managed to put it behind us in this period. And this program should really come to life this year. As far as the second part is concerned, we are also aware of the lack of specific infrastructure that is linked to fishing, which is the absence of a large market, the absence of fishing ports and the like. And in that direction, we have some financial resources planned for this year, but also certain programmes and plans. I can also tell you that we are also specifically trying to in Istria something along with the county and the work of fishermen co-finance the construction of a fishing wholesaler. I think we're going to do similar things in other counties and other areas, I just want to point out that the ministry can't just solve all the problems. We are ready to tackle and we are ready because we understand the importance of marine fisheries on the one hand and on the other hand you will soon see changes and additions to the Sea Fisheries Act that will in a different way regulate this problem. As far as the specific question is concerned, I am, above all, taking advantage of the opportunity to express my condolences to the families of the injured fishermen. This is the consequence of a job that is unfortunately dealt with, and the fact is that fishermen are thrown out very often and at the dangers of life, which is manifested in some examples and in such a drastic way. The Ministry of Agriculture has so far had the understanding of all those who, under the circumstances, had certain I would say harm, suffering and so forth and have always jumped in and found opportunities to help those who said most needed. So I can responsibly say that we are willing to take part in the obligation, to help the families of these injured fishermen and in the part of the reconstruction or purchase of new ships and in the part so that they can continue their economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33396	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33397	Thank you very much. First my apology. It's about an unfortunate fisherman from Trogir. I was the one who told Omis. Mr. Minister, I am with this last piece of concrete that you have answered that you will help in trying to solve the problems that have arisen. One piece will be very difficult to help when life is lost. We know that, unfortunately, all the help is welcome, but she has never completely removed everything that's happened. But here I am pleased to help both family and family and try to preserve them and give them hope and faith that really some programs and certain attention can be realized and trust me if we can help these families through these cases then we will come to the goal of restoring the trust of those who hope to listen and watch this Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33398	Thank you very much. He's going to ask Mr. Agent Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question was addressed to Croatian Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament is on a proposal from the Government to which you adopted the Protection and Rescue Act at the 11th session, which gradually brings the Republic of Croatia closer to the security standards that apply in the countries of the European Union, which I, of course, welcomed in my debate. In doing so, I pointed out the problem of employees in the city's information centres who are almost all Croatian defenders, who have already come out of the MORH system, which they have accepted because there is no others. However, I pointed out then that there is a great danger of losing jobs. During the debate on the law, a promise was made that everyone would be involved in the new service 112 with further training and that no one would be left without a job. Unfortunately, the adoption of a regulation on the internal organisation of the State Administration for Protection according to precisely those workers who are now in a difficult situation seems to have come true and today there is an uncertain fate under them 143 employees of which 15 of them from the Istrian County. I ask you, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, what is the real fate of the employees of the existing city intelligence centres? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33400	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33401	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for asking and thanking us for the support you gave us when we passed the Protection and Rescue and Implementation Act of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue, which is what Croatia is also harmonising and harmonising standards with the European Union. As of 1 January this year, the administration started to work and a very dynamic renumberation of the number 985 at 112 was launched. Also, as you said, we're going to have to shut down the city's intelligence centres. And my information says, I don't have the information that you of 140 people have, but my information says that, and that's the job if you want it to be mine, that the county centres that will be installed in the service of 112 will take over one good part of the people who worked at the city's intelligence centres. Whether someone stays or not, we'll see about that. We'll try to take these people to the county centers. It's an idea so, the city's being abolished, it's going now with one first action of 35, 36 city centers that are being abolished, and these people should move to county. If we're going to have for all places, we'll see but I'm sure we'll try as hard as we can and certainly won't fill the county centers with new people than we'll have priority for those who've worked at the city's information centres so far. If we're gonna make it all, maybe it was irresponsible on my part right now to say yes, but we're gonna try to take it, and what's gonna end up being seen anyway. We need to redecorate everything and we can't have as we've had so far in every city intelligence center, we're going to have county intelligence centers that will be networked into this central system of 112. We've taken over one good piece, I've also got an exact number of employees from the MORH, so far an observation and intelligence service and MUP staff, from the fire department and the civil protection department. Here, once again, it would be irresponsible to claim that we will be able to do everything but we will try to get people who have worked until now, especially Croatian defenders who have worked in city centres to hire new county centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33402	Thank you very much. Mr. Antun Perushko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, it is not a matter of form but content, and the content is unfortunately such that, in part, the uncertain fate of these employees, and I quote from the Croatian Parliament's report, then the Secretary of State is taking part in the debate, I hope, with the knowledge and resources of the minister and of yours, I quote, "All the employees of the MUP and the MORH, who have been assigned to these jobs, will also be taken over in the new administration with further subsequent completion.", finished quote. Therefore, I am pleased with the part where you responsible as prime minister said you would try, but there is no guarantee for all people, however unfortunately, who are now... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33404	Thank you very much. We have an announcement. Vice-President of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec called the Committee today at 14 o'clock in the Committee President's office, room 244/2. Let's keep asking questions. Ms. Representative Mirjana Brnadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Bozidar Kalmeta. Mr. Minister, in Zadar County, with great interest is expected to start building a very important access road towards the highway from Gaženica to Zadar II. I ask you to answer me how the preparations are going to begin and when will the construction of this important road start? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33406	Thank you very much. Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33407	Madam MPs, we have said that we are in a four-year programme to support the construction of state roads will pay special attention to the combined roads that connect highways with individual cities, i.e. municipalities. In this sense, there are a whole series of preparation activities, and somewhere they have already started building on these fast road connections to make the highway faster and better and closer to the centers, either as long as the cities or municipalities are. So we have that in virtually every county. This particular question, therefore, is about a quick road merger that will connect Zadar 2 knots with the D-8 highway, i.e. the Adriatic highway 15 km long, these projects are over, all the necessary permits are out and I believe that in the next 10 or 15 days there will be a tender for the implementation of that fast road.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33408	Thank you very much. Mrs. Brnadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33409	I thank you, I am pleased with the answer and I hope that these deadlines that the Ministry has given itself will be respected for the pleasure of all the people of Zadar County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33410	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33411	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Agriculture Minister, I hold in my hand the solution of a court on criminal prosecution and punishment and representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Union for organising peasant protests. This verdict was made as if it were a criminal organisation because it was punished and an organisation, 18 members were punished and written on 15 pages. On Monday, we also witnessed a protest that organized the peasant alliance and only after the threat of protests along with the prime minister received representatives of peasants who expressed their dissatisfaction with the reduction and delay of the payment of incentives, an unwarranted and unexplainable increase in the price of blue oil, over-indulgence in food imports, and the implementation of a policy of selling state land to peasants. The result of the meeting is the formation of working groups involving peasants to try to solve these already known problems. In Croatia, more than 100,000 craftsmen and more than 100,000 peasants are engaged in independent activities, which employ more than 300 thousand people together. However, they are completely marginalised because they are not in the negotiating teams for the European Union, are not in the Economic and Social Council and are not in the working groups of your ministry without protests. We can conclude that these protests have been fully justified but the protests will result as I have already said in the prosecution of peasants. Are the Government of the Republic of Croatia and your Ministry ready to change the policy of communication and accept peasants as partners and enemies when they fight for the law guaranteed rights? Who will be responsible if we experience mass roadblocks because of lack of hearing and understanding? Are you ready, Mr. Minister, to apologize to the peasants in public and admit that the incentives of late and culture are smaller? Or do you think that peasants lie and try to fight protests against what doesn't belong to them by law?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33412	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Mr. Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. As far as I can tell, there are a lot of questions. I'll try to let you answer as much time as you allow me. First of all, I would like to stress that since I am at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, I have had regular communication with representatives of rural associations and they are generally held at least once every two months and sometimes more often. So there is no claim that peasants are not those who cannot participate in the creation of agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, on all activities related to certain amendments and additions to existing laws and also on the problem of support, financial support in agriculture is reported in detail. I would also like to point out here that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy is law enforcement. And in the part of the implementation of the Monetary Assistance Act, we were obliged to establish maximumly encouraged amounts by individual cultures and models and the like. I'd just like to point out and remind you that you were a member of the government when that law was passed. The issue of agricultural land is also raised. The same was brought in at a time when you, Mr. Pacek, were a member of the government. I agree...... But it was. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it's my duty to enforce those laws. With certain parts of what I believe has proved to be, in practice or over time, not that it is not good that it is not functional, we, among other things, are now preparing amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act in a way that all those whose problems are affected, means both representatives of peasant associations and representatives of agricultural enterprises and, everyone is familiar with this problem and have had the opportunity to participate actively in the creation of this Law. And finally for the first time probably in this House and the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry discussed the draft proposal. So not in the final proposal, but precisely because we want the laws and areas that we define to be what, I would say, the better, to find the best-quality solutions that will facilitate and implement these, these laws. And I want to answer you in this way that I will continue to practice such a practice, that as far as the protests are concerned and the suspended sentence which someone after, it is a matter of courts and probably in accordance with the laws that the courts have passed such penalties. I am responsible for saying that there are no reasons for the protests, that the incentives are not reduced, but that they are not. We increase incentives year after year. In 2003, the incentive system changed and just to remind you. By 2003, the first quotas were established in the areas shared by the organizers and producers through the Office of State Administration. At the time, it was a practice that the manufacturer depended on which, some had 60, some 70% incentivising while 30 or 40% of the surface was probably in some that it was 100%. So now it's the ones who probably were 100% in the incentives, and now they're the loudest and now you're spreading the story of reducing incentives. In the last year, in 2004, we recovered all existing obligations resulting from the fact that your government did not establish in accordance with the Law on New Aid in Agriculture and Forestry, which has not been established by the national the quotas that are incorporated into the Financial Assistance Act and so we are also, for the 2003 commitments [[Finish it, Mr. Minister, finish it.]] paid 500 million kuna more than they were budget options. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33414	Mr. Pacek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33415	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, our government was 15 months old. If we've done something wrong and done it wrong... If we did something wrong, you had plenty of time to change that. In 15 months, everything can change. Your statement that you will continue with such practice still probably means that with such practice the peasants will continue and the setting-up of events is known. He's protesting again and again the same problems in court. But you admitted by forming working groups that communication was not good. So I invite you to pay the fines for those people who will get them again based on court solutions. And I ask you to change the practice as was the bad practice after that meeting where there were more than 10 farmers' associations to go to a press conference with only one like that and say what you just said. At least we all know that the incentives are smaller, that the incentives are late, that the blue oil went for the price in the sky, and that the food exports are growing even faster this year than in the last time we imported For 10 billion kunas. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33416	Thank you very much. They're going to ask Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33417	Dear Vice President, Honored Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. I am asking the parliamentary question of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic, or State Secretary, Mr Vrankovic. The Law on the right to income with the pension of certain categories of pensioners, "National Journal" No. 45 of 2002, lays down the right to add to the pension of Croatian citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia who have obtained the right to retire in one of the former SFRY republics. According to the state in December 2004, there were 21 thousand 521 Croatian citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia receiving pensions from BiH and Serbia-Montenegro. The average amounts range from 593 kuna from Bosnia and Herzegovina to 915 kuna from Serbia-Montenegro. Social insurance agreements with BiH and Serbia-Montenegro do not meet, have not improved the situation of these pensioners, have even complicated it because BiH and Serbia-Montenegro do not regularly meet their obligations. My question is as follows: what are the reasons why, since this has stopped paying off with 31 December 2004 because the law so provided, which are the reasons why the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship did not propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia an extension of the law on the right to supplement certain categories of pensioners or the adoption of a regulation with legal force, and why did it threaten the existence of nearly 11 thousand of its citizens, or what and when it thinks so, and when it intends to do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33418	Thank you very much. State Secretary, Mr. Vrankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative here, I will briefly address this question and one answer. In order to protect the difficult material position of pensioners, Croatian citizens who made their pension in one of the republics of the former SFRY Republic of Croatia passed the Law on the right to add to the pension of certain categories of beneficiaries of pensions that took effect as you know on 1 May 2002. The law prescribed a circle of potential users and the conditions and procedure for the exercise of the right to a pension allowance. The reasons for the adoption of this Act are based on the fact that the majority of these pensioners did not regularly receive from the former SFRY republics in which they made their pension. Or those pensions were extremely low. Although the payment of these pensions under bilateral social insurance contracts with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro is exclusively an obligation of the state in which Croatia intervened with the Retirement Supplement Act in order to protect the material position of these pensioners residing in Croatia during the initial period of application of interstate contracts until a regular interstate pension payment is established. As a result, the Retirement Supplement Act was passed for a specified period of time, as you said by 31 December 2004. Croatia, as noted because of the difficult situation of pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro, was caused by the effects of the war and unregulated relations through the social insurance agreement, passed the law. We have analyzed the consequences that, which will be after the end of the law and unfortunately we are still in, in this working segment because these supplements are not a regular pension system institute, but through the Republic of Croatia's add-on intervention as a temporary extraordinary measure and since this pension supplement contains all the elements of social care in order to protect the existential minimum of these pensioners in our opinion, so we need to look for an answer and solution to the problem through the welfare system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33420	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33421	Mr. Secretary of State, I am not satisfied primarily with the state of affairs because it responds to the post-festum. The second I am not satisfied with the current state of users, and the only thing I can accept is the direction to analyse this problem and that as soon as possible through the pension allowance system, either through the social security system, this problem is solved. Because the existence of 11,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia has indeed been compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33422	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister with members of the government. I refer my question to the respected prime minister. Here's while the entire state summit in search of Gotovina's general Gotovina are citizens looking for their own cash that is getting smaller and smaller. According to the calculation of independent trade unions, the most basic consumer basket for a year has collected more than 1000 kuna. The average salary can no longer meet the basic needs of only 63%, and to pensioners and their pensions that we don't even talk about. You promised citizens, of course, between everything and everything to remember only those guarantee cards, above all, and a better standard for citizens. I wish that standard remained at least at the 2003 level. So I'm asking you what you intend to do is make sure that the standard of citizens doesn't fall anymore. Because it is already quite obvious that the government has had neither the strength nor the ability to increase the standard since 2003 and has remained at that level since 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33424	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Mr. Sanader, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ma'am, if that were the case, then I'd say you're right. But since that's not what you said, then I'm afraid I have to say you're wrong. The 2003 and 2005 standards are incomparably better, and all that the Croatian government is doing may directly not be directly reflected in the pocket of Croatian consumers but indirectly in any case yes. Because you see, for example. Last year 2004, we were the first government not only yours, if we compare it with yours but also with all the governments so far meant to those HDZ governments in the 1990s, we were the first government to change the trend in terms of exports, exports. Imports-exports. So far, even in 2003, imports have grown twice as fast as exports. For the first time last year, exports grew 15% and imports increased 5%. So exports grew three times faster than imports. If that's not something that the Croatian citizens expected, then I think someone here is either asking a political question or doesn't understand what it's about. It's a macroeconomic fact. Which is correct. I can be told that this percentage of exports still doesn't cover large imports and that's true. However, in 2003, which you would thus glorify the coverage of imports by export was 42%. Now she's 48%. So we're up 5%. And that's a little bit to go on. And this year's gonna get even better. In 2003, when you were glorifying her like that, unemployment was somewhere below $400,000. Now it's just over 300,000. According to what we're talking about. We can talk more. Yeah, she was at one point 400 and over 400 grand. In 2003, the growth of industrial production was much less than it was last year 2004. And now the key question is whether all these macroeconomic indicators that are much better than in 2003 will also reflect when they will affect the pocket of the ordinary Croatian consumer and family. I'm sure it'll reflect maybe not right away but it'll definitely reflect much better than it did in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33426	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33427	You were here, Mr. Prime Minister, talking about imports and exports, which proved to be bigger. And thanks to the measures taken by the former coalition government by negotiating right in shipbuilding and so on. And so on. It's common knowledge. But let's drop the import and export now. You're here to say that the measures you're taking will also reflect the standard of citizens. They've already reflected. Today, at this moment the Croatian citizen in his Croatian wallet in his Croatian pocket, has much less resources or for the same units can buy less goods. That's the thing. And that's obvious. And I can't understand something as well as you might not understand my question to the end. But citizens understand when they take their wallet out of their pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33428	Thank you very much. Obviously, the consequences are long-term and one and a half long-term. If it can't be just good consequences and not bad consequences. So there's that. I would ask Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic to ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33429	Dear Vice President, one quick question for the prime minister. Mr. Prime Minister, when will you personally and the Croatian Government respond decisively and clearly to the provocations that are constantly coming from the other side of the Adriatic by the high functioning Italian Government. I mean Foreign Minister Janfranco Finni who told Freedom that Istria, Dalmatia and Rijeka have always been Italian countries. He's an honorary citizen of TV. Zadar municipalities in exile, in the party rooms of his party whose leader the Alliance of Nationals stands to cry even today on which Istra and Dalmatia are Italian. He used to throw bottles with those papers, we're gonna go back and forth. When you're going to respond decisively because we didn't hear your determined reaction when he said this. And after shooting this film that shamelessly falsifys history is called the Heart movie in the Cave. It seems to me that they want to re-initiate from both sides of the Adriatic where they can and can show ambitions how it is in fact the area they continue to count on, falsifying what they were doing here so as not to list their camps on Rab, Kreljevica, Bakru, Ošak, Molata, Zlarina, Lopud, Coopers and so on, where they killed Croats. And tortured them, and so on. I ask you if the Croatian Government will finally respond decisively to these provocations no matter how important good neighbourly relations and everything that includes one smart diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33430	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33431	Mr. Representative, the Croatian Government has responded as resolutely to the provocations as you have firmly asked the question temperamentally with the Southern temperament. We are immediately on a statement or on a transferred interview in Free Dalmatia Finni who at the time was not yet Minister of Foreign Affairs now each of his statements gets much more weight. Because he's the foreign minister. But then he was a member of the government himself. Answer immediately and ask for an explanation of that decision. Or that statement. We got an explanation that Finnie did it the way she transferred Free Dalmatia didn't say it. And we've been informed of that. That's much better than staying when he said it. That's one thing. Secondly, I firmly argue that Croatia and Italy must develop good neighbourly relations with each other and on a common perspective in a united Europe. Therefore, be free of worry, the Croatian Democratic Community, which knew under much more difficult circumstances, in the circumstances of war and aggression, will respond in order to protect national sovereignty and state territory, so it will be much easier to respond to such provocations when it comes to my government. Be still, we know how, we know the mechanisms, and I'm sure this statement you quoted is not official Italian politics. That's what's true and on the one hand we'll be able to protect national interests, to protect sovereignty, to defend ourselves against any iredentistic statements. And I agree with you there's an iredentism in Italy. And this film is certainly on the verge of such a policy, but it definitely cannot endanger Croatia at all. There is no way that Croatia is going to put this at risk. We were able to defend ourselves and free the country under much more difficult circumstances. Therefore, such statements cannot be defended, and let them go to the soul, let those statements and such films go to the souls of those who still live in the past, who live in the constituency, but it has no chance today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33432	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33433	Mr. Prime Minister, you will always have support when you are determined to respond to such things. The public impression was a little different from your determination now. And I'd like to, I'm carrying the really public thinking, especially in Dalmatia, where I come from. I would like to point out that some diplomats in Croatia have, unfortunately, repeated Italian diplomats, too, unfortunately. And secondly, this film was filmed by Gian Franc Fini and RAI, so the Italian State Television, the Republic of Italy. I think it's already a scandal. And for that reason, by offering you the support of all of us, she is doubtless. We're only asking you to respond resolutely. I'm not afraid we'll be threatened, but God forbid we can't stand this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33434	Thank you very much. He'll ask a question, Mr. Agent Nikola Sopcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33435	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. He'd ask the Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Mr. Minister, since 1 January of this year, our pensioners who have retired in the Republic of Slovenia are receiving a smaller pension for cca. 16% and even one quarter of the former pension, it means from New Year's Eve. By amending the Income Tax Act in the Republic of Slovenia, the pensions of our citizens who made pensions in the neighbouring country, and there are estimated around 50,000. They're taxed in full, but they don't exercise their right to return anywhere. So they were brought into a more unfavourable position than the rest of our pensioners, and from their Slovenian colleagues with the same job experience and in the same workplace they get a quarter lower pension. This problem should be addressed by agreement with the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation that I know was prepared in 1999. But in the term of office of the former government, nothing has been done and it has never been signed. Mr. Minister, is this about a deal finally being reached that would solve this burning problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33436	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So, you yourself said the Republic of Croatia unfortunately has no signed Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation with Slovenia. But unfortunately, there is also no contract signed with the Federal Republic of Germany as well, but that contract has been used since the early 1980s, signed with Yugoslavia. And very interesting that these are the two countries where Croatian citizens make the most financial transactions. So you said exactly that negotiations with the Republic of Slovenia began in 1999. However, as they began in 99, they stopped. Unfortunately, there have been no talks in the past period, nor have there been meetings between negotiating teams and the problem faced by pensioners from Croatia, hence the tax on pension income in Slovenia, and they therefore, since there is no Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation cannot achieve the return of that tax in Croatia or avoid taxation in Slovenia. And Prime Minister Sanader agreed that the negotiating teams should meet next week, and I expect that those problems that have been in the agreement since the 1990s, which should not be entered into the Double Taxation Agreement, will be resolved and that in this way we will solve the trauma of our citizens who make their pension or any other earnings in the Republic of Slovenia, and according to their laws, taxes are accounted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33438	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Sopcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33439	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This response will certainly please our pensioners who often have more than half of the municipality in this border area with Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33440	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs. Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33441	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking Mr. Minister Peter Cobankovic. In Požega-Slavon County in family farms and association of farmers of the Symental bovine cattle Požetina, as the biggest problem that prevents faster and better quality development highlights the lack of agricultural land owned. We therefore welcome Mr. Minister's instructions that by March 25th, the mayors and mayors should issue to users who do not use the country on the basis of a certificate contract for the use of state agricultural land so that they can achieve incentives. Following this, the operational programme for the development of bovine production with the following very acceptable HBOR loans is inconclusive because of the criteria related to local and construction permits. Namely, it is needed by farmers who intend to build a stop, but it blocks the development and investment plan among those who would increase the herd, equip the barn or buy the land. So I'm asking. Is there anything the ministry can do in this case to facilitate the purchase of heifers, equipment or purchase of land individually without conditioning the location, or building permit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33442	Thank you very much. Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to stress that the operational programme for increasing cattle production is one of the strategic projects of this government, that it is heading towards increasing its own meat and milk production. We are going towards increasing self-sufficiency in these products because the fact that Croatia today meets only 75% of its own needs in the production of juniper meat. So we need to increase 25% to get to the level of self-sufficiency. A similar situation, something more favourable in the production of milk, where we meet cca. 90% of your own needs. For these reasons, the ministry has proposed, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted the operational programme of increasing cattle production that we hold for one of the strategic programmes for the reason that we will not only address the issue of self-sufficiency of meat and milk production, but also find a market for basic war cultures through livestock. Normally, with all very attractive conditions, which is that according to this programme we managed to arrange a direct credit line with HBOR on very favourable terms with interest of 4% and 10 years of repayment of credit for two years of grace period. We have also managed to ensure the guarantees of HAMAG and HAMAG for the first time in its history follows with guarantees from agriculture programmes which is very important to highlight. But here, despite such affirmative and very favourable conditions, there are certain limiting factors that slow down the implementation of this programme. You have just listed two of these factors, one is the issue of agricultural land, and here we are preparing a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land, we want in a better and better quality way to solve the problem of land on the one hand, and on the other hand the problem is precisely for the construction of new farms, but also for the adaptation of existing farms it is necessary to normally remove the first location permit, and later building permit. There are certain problems and, accordingly, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy are in communication with the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, and accordingly, we have prepared certain proposals for interventions in the Construction Act, and then to create a basis for changing the local self-government unit's spatial plans in order to allow in rural areas in the building area an increased number of throats, buildings for an increased number of throats. So far, it's regulated on a base of about 15 to 20 throats, and our intensity is that this change allows 40 to 50 throats. As for the same, I would also like to point out that according to this, we will adopt one regulation on minimum technical, technological and environmental conditions of standing building, meaning that these stops and facilities must be done according to all standards so as not to be something that would affect both the environment and the living conditions of other people in those areas. Here's what we're about to do to improve the implementation of this program. But I would also like to point out that we are also trying to find opportunities with local self-government units as well as with business zones, setting up a farm building zone where the ministry would also help and co-finance the construction of necessary and necessary, necessary financial participation in the resolution of the building of the necessary infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33444	We'll be able to ask all the questions if we're a little more concise, so I'm asking you to be more specific. Mrs. Maria Byte, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33445	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer because this is exactly what goes in the direction of better and faster and better quality development of Croatian agriculture and to help the peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33446	Thank you. She's going to ask Mrs. Representative Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33447	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question would be to ask the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti. Mr. Minister, for weeks now, the daily "Free Dalmatia" has been calculated with the construction of a fast road called Sjevanovac-Dubci. It's a D39 in the length of 12.5 kilometers. We will not say how important a road is for that part of Croatia and that it is the only link of that part and deeper to the interior with the Makarska coast, islands and southern Croatia. According to the data I own, the vantour season is trafficked daily by 7 to 8 thousand vehicles, and during the tourist season, the number of vehicles goes up to 15 thousand per day. The programme you presented in Split-Dalmatia County two months ago envisaged the construction of this road during 2006 and 2007, of course parallel to the Šejanovac node, which is professionally and justifiable because one without the other and cannot function, or rather work together well. I'd like to ask if it's a matter of whether you've actually led to a shift in the construction of this road or if it's just a calculation of individuals who use their position? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33448	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Calmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33449	Dear Madam MPs, we do not give up or change anything in the program, and in this programme, the state road maintenance for 2005 to 2008 is also the state road of Sjeanovac-Dubci. There are planned activities to improve building-technical elements and the quality of the stakes in 13 km. The location permit is being issued, so the location permit is being issued. A tender will be opened at the end of the main projects, after which a request for a building permit will be submitted. So it goes all the way over and there's absolutely no talking about leaving anything out or stopping it. At the same time, in the context of connecting the highway to the rest of the road network, it is... part of the D39 in the 6anovac node zone, i.e. from the centre of Sjedanovac in a length of about 4.5 kilometers and it is part of the final future fast road of Dubci-Sestanovac. There's also an ongoing location permit. A building permit has been requested and will then also go to the realization of the road, which is about 16.5km long. There is therefore no saying that anything has changed here, everything is as it was adopted in the fourth, eighth and so on, and as presented in the Split-Dalmatia County at a meeting with Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33450	Thank you. Mrs. Chikesh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33451	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I never doubted you'd give up your program, but I wanted that part of the public to hear the real truth. Indeed, they have great hopes in this roadway that will primarily improve the quality of life, and they hope to be the initiator of the economic and other development of this region, which has been unjustly abandoned for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33452	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Unknown to Ljubic or from the field of social care. In 2003, Mr. Ministers began the redesign of the old Komarevo primary school building for the needs of the Centre for People with Mental Retardation in Sisak-Moslavina County. The investor was then the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, a contract was signed with the contractor "Cup 91" from Petrinja. The papers started, but they weren't finished. The building's been stopped. From our knowledge the work was paid in 2003 completely, but the facility was not completed. I must tell you that we tried to find out something from the director of "Cup 91" Mr. Branko Vidovic, but failed. Every day citizens of Sisak and the surroundings on radio shows ask us: Will the Ministry of Health and Social Care and when they complete the reconstruction and adaptation of this primary school building and for the needs of the Centre for People with Mental Retardation in our county because it is really necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33454	Thank you very much. Minister Ljubicic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for this question. Ladies and gentlemen, just let me get back to the past a little bit, so in 2002, let's try to explain things a little bit. The Ministry of Labour and Social Care then agreed, therefore, in the amount of 8 million kuna on the implementation of the Centre for People with Mental Retardation in Komarevo, therefore, as a change of school that practically existed there. Unfortunately, the work that was done, if we can even talk about work because it was a non-quality building that apparently did not meet minimum standards, by the end of 2003 95% of the funds were spent, so over 7 million and 700 thousand kuna. What is very important is that in early 2004 we established a whole series of unresolved problems. Problems which unfortunately referred to the failure to resolve the general issue of energy, the issue of infrastructure, the issue of land. Thus, the adaptation and expansion of the facility was not even land-based. And yet again, 95% of the funds have been spent. There was no one on that construction site at the time, and we don't really have anyone to continue this construction. So it's about illegal acts. What are we gonna do? Except, of course, what I can announce, and that will be about 10 days from now, that we will forward the subject to the State's Attorney's office where it is absolutely our bond. We went to a rescue project. So we hired practically adequate and quality people to try additional project documentation with the lowest means possible to find solutions. We started direct negotiations with individuals to solve the infrastructure with the dominant energy and, of course, we sought a solution and land books. Of course, it will obviously take some time, but we won't give up on that project because the Centre, therefore, for people with mental retardation in Komarevo is needed, but not in such illegal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33456	Mrs. Rocksandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33457	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Well, on behalf of all those citizens who believe that they wanted to hear it, and we at the local level didn't have an answer for it. Indeed, as you said, this facility is necessary. We have more than 200 people with a heavy or lighter mental retardation who would use the services of this facility. The project was launched in '97. Until the idea project was also included in the financing of Sisak-Moslavina County, as well as Caritas from the German city of Haidenheim, and we owe them an answer to all of this. I hope we find a solution and that this facility will please all those who need it and function. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33458	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by the representative, Mr Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Development and Reconstruction, Bozidar Kalmeti. Croatia's roads last year financed and restored a share of the B2 state road, which passes only the centre of the town of Vukovar. Unfortunately, it was stuck in the centre, up to a total of 300 meters because the road's shares should have crossed private ownership. The owners were offered a replacement plot but until today there is no positive solution. How long will the Vukovars drive through the centre of their city through the holes and on the destroyed road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33460	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Calmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33461	Here, as you yourself know, as you said, we tried to agree, however, there was no deal. Since it's an extremely important road we're headed for the expropriation process, then that 300 meters of road through Vukovar will be completed and done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33462	Thank you. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33463	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but please. I'm happy with the answer, please speed up the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33464	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33465	Mr. Prime Minister, but that's how it starts, the Prime Minister's gone, so now I'm a little confused. But Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, there is no prime minister, the question is addressed to the prime minister. I assume the deputy, Mrs. Kosor, will respond. So, all in all, some balance between internal and foreign policy probably suggests a good position for the government. If I'm allowed to say it, this government is extremely focused on some outside matters. It doesn't have to be bad, but since life here in Croatia is incorrigible and thank God that it is, to look for balances between the first and the second, I said, the good position of the government. And strive for it, we all strive for it together. Namely, I warn of one of the contractual obligations of the Croatian government. This contractual obligation was made on the basis of the relationship between the diocese of Đakovci-Srijemska, then the Osijek Clinical Hospital, as well as the Government, which due to the return of property to the Clinical Hospital Osijek, is to be paid just 20 million kuna. For months, however, more than a year there is this obligation, nothing happens. The following should be said, the circumstances of the rule of law probably include that so-called thing that simply says that contractual obligations are sacred obligations. But besides, it's a hospital that's almost systematically ignored in one way or another. And here in our ranks sits the President of the Governing Council of the hospital who said, who has said somewhere that he will send a humble letter asking that something in this sense happen to the government. Here, I'm asking a question, and not immodestly, but resolutely, and with a request to meet the contractual obligations that, no doubt, exist, and in response, I ask you to tell me when it will be. It's not doubtful, then, whether or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33466	Thank you very much. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor and the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33467	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Here's what I can promise to personally deal with. I'm not familiar, of course, with all the details because it's not a narrow area of my daily work, but I promise you within a 10-day answer. I can't specify the date you're looking for right now, of course, I believe you understand that. But in the next 10 days, I will answer you in precise written terms. This government is trying, of course, not as you at the beginning of your question actually wanted to suggest that it concentrated only on foreign policy. No, of course we try to deal equally with external but certainly priority domestic policy. And I'd like to use this opportunity maybe for, since you mention healthcare, for a few data. Last year, a total of 2 and a half million kuna was spent in your county's capital facilities, especially in KB Osijek, 2 million kuna was invested. Then, also in the last year, different equipment was purchased worth 9 and a half million kuna. 2 ambulances were purchased, then it is important to note that the limit of KB Osijek is 32 million kuna, which is more than the limit of KB, for example, Dubrava and the Hospital of the Sister of Mercy. This year, the 4th loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank, which would spend 2 and a half million euros on the development of cardiosurgery. So, Mr. Representative, in conclusion, the answer precisely to the exact question you've asked will be given within 10 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33468	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33469	Here, as the prime minister just showed up, that's good, that's useful. The general social benefit is that. I actually referred my question to the prime minister. But here's how he was gone I can't tell how I'm with this answer... The speaker went off./... now I won't know again, the deputy herself said she couldn't because there's not enough data, etc., but I'm amazed because it's a contractual obligation for Mr. Prime Minister, and contract obligations exist in the government's letter, however there's going to be a contract, and there's nothing to be informed about if talking about the rule of law isn't just a general place for foreign policy needs, and I was talking about it, but Mr. Prime Minister how you're already here, I'd just like to briefly tell you, last time. Please, I still have time and don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33470	I want you to conclude your exposure because it's been a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33471	One sentence, I mean that... yet he arrived at the clinical hospital of Osijek as last time you may have listened with infidelity from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33472	Thank you very much. Now will ask a question Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac, please. Please, let's be more specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33473	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. In daily press, the Croatian Privatisation Fund published an ad for sale of 91.87% of the stakes of the Karlovac milk industry. The nominal owner of the ownership of the Croatian Privatisation Fund has agreed to prior terms of sale with the union, the working council, the Social Partnership Office and the Supervisory Board. According to this, the conditions would preserve activity, long-term job conservation, improve network and co-operation with cooperatives, and oblige the customer to invest in the modernisation of equipment and technology. However, the text of the tender did not contain as binding these agreed conditions but said only in one place that the Fund would particularly appreciate the bidder's willingness to meet certain conditions but which are much easier than agreed, so they are not binding. In this way, no security would be guaranteed for neither the company nor employees nor thousands of cooperatives, so the tender was cancelled in the meantime. The Karlovak milk industry has already passed a privatisation Calvary within the Globus Group system when it is burdened with loans and they have been spent elsewhere while loans are left to the KIM-U. I ask Minister Cobanković's question, since the tender for the sale of KIM is cancelled, what are the plans and when a new tender will be opened and whether this new tender will contain binding safeguard clauses which would oblige the customer to maintain production, maintain employment and to invest in the modernisation of equipment that are...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33474	Thank you very much. The question has been asked. I'd like a concrete answer from Mr. Secretary without great explanation, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33475	Thank you very much. As you know on Friday, the Fund's Management Board annulled the tender precisely because there were no binding clauses related to the maintenance of production, employment and investment in the Karlovak milk industry. For these reasons, the tender has been annulled, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is responsible for coordinating the meeting between the representatives of the fund, the Ministry and the employees of the union, the administration and all those interested in the KIM problem, and that, in accordance with the current practice and in respect of the social criteria and the strategic importance of the Karlovac milk industry, we will form a new tender in which there will be binding clauses on these issues. We are likely to hold that meeting next week, and a new competition can be expected afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33476	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33477	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33478	Thank you very much. Let's move on. He will ask the question, Mr. Marijan Bekavac, and again, he points out as desirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Peter Cobankovic. The property field extends to an area of 45 km square and with its geographical location by the composition of the soil and long tradition of processing is the source of a significant economic branch of the Imotska krajina agriculture. In 1980, a accumulation of Rica, which can satisfy the water supply of the entire Imot field, was built. In order to make use of this potential of the accumulation lake, it is necessary to access the construction of a water-soluble closed-type system because the current channels are in very poor condition and do not meet the standards of high-productive production. My question is what does the Ministry and Croatian Waters do to complete the start of the Imot field irrigation project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33480	Thank you very much. I ask Mr. Minister to be brief and clear in his answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33481	Thank you very much. You know that in the development of a national programme, a project of irrigation and management of agricultural land which should be the basis of all further projects related to the problem of irrigation of agricultural areas, as far as specific issues are concerned, I can answer that in the plan of Croatian Waters for this year there are envisaged for the development of a project of recovery of the main plumber in the Imot field there are estimated Circka 200 thousand kuna and for the recovery of the main plumber is secured circus million and 500 thousand kuna. As regards the construction of a water-soluble closed-type system, he has a realistic chance that, after the adoption of a national irrigation programme project, he will be included and co-financed from the state budget precisely for the reason that we have a secure battery, it is only about the construction of water in a different way where enough water for the complete Imot field would be provided. And it will probably be one of the first projects to be co-financed in part from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33482	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33483	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I am very pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33484	Thank you very much. They're going to ask Mrs. Irene Ahel a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I will refer my question to the Secretary of State, Mr. Bakota. It has been said in public lately that after entering the European Union, we will lose our domestic products such as cheese, cream, cool and so on, and recently from Istrian honey producers it has been asked to protect Istrian honey as an original Croatian product. So I ask you what we can do to protect our original products and whether it is possible to place them on the European market, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33486	Thank you. State Secretary, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. There is no need to fear black scenarios when it comes to the production of domestic indigenous products. The key fact here is to distinguish the domestic market and the question is which markets are intended for these products. When it comes to production for private needs on the one hand, as well as in production for the Croatian market, and not for exports to the European Union market, no prohibition is provided for because this EU legislation leaves Croatia with a way of regulating production. This means that for manufacturers of all domestic products, the Croatian regulations must be respected primarily. For example, when producing cheese and cream or other products that we sell in Croatian markets, it is also necessary to apply, of course, the European Union rules which are part of domestic legislation if it is contagious diseases, if it is minimum hygiene conditions and I believe that we all agree that this is indeed of interest to all consumers and to protect their health. On the other hand, those producers who wish to take part in the European Union markets will, of course, also have to adopt the European Union standards. As far as part of your question is concerned, when it comes to indigenous Croatian products, I would like to stress that during 2005, the harmonisation of our regulations with EU regulations but also domestic legislation has the possibility of certain products obtaining the status of original Croatian products, depending on how much they receive so-called. the two codes, the geographical indication and the designation of origin of agricultural products. Registration is carried out at the State Institute for Intellectual Property, so here is the possibility of answering your question already registered nine Croatian products as indigenous Croatian products. This applies only to the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the future during this year when we harmonize our products with European criteria these products will then be able to be found and be indigenous Croatian products and on the European market after harmonising our legislation with European ones. In any case, there will be opportunities for our producers to come forward after obtaining these labels on the European market and thus present their quality and protect their own name on the European Union market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33488	Thank you very much. Madam MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33489	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the comprehensive answer and I hope there will be producers of these products.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33490	Thank you very much. We have another question that's for technical reasons as an exception we'll allow, so I'm asking you to be patient for one more question. He'll be appointed by Mr. Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33491	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament! Today, in a whole series of quality issues, I am holding that both the public and we parliamentary representatives would be denied, and I hope that in the form of the response, the Prime Minister will be able to give us information. So, Mr. President, how will the Croatian Government react to Mrs. Carla Del Ponte's latest report, which in a very difficult way, I would dare to say disqualify both the past and the current Croatian government and in the context of cooperation with the Hague court, and is it true what appeared in the media yesterday and today that the British Intelligence Service has made 9 requests to the Croatian Government, which also contain illegal recruiting, listening, intimidation, blackmailing, unhandled prosecutions and all in the context of the settlement of the Ante Gotovina case? I would like to point out that this question and the desire to get information on this problem is supported not only by the HSP Club, but also by the HSS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33492	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Djapic, thank you for this question. Certainly, it would not have been good if this had been the current morning without this question, as yesterday's statement, or media reports on Mrs Del Ponte's statement, or her latest report, had raised great dust. I want to say here what I told the press earlier in the break, which is that this report is not a report, but a letter that Mrs Del Ponte sent to the President of the European Union, so to the Luxembourg Foreign Minister last Friday, and we already have it since last Friday. So, what was there, why were the media or whoever gave it, were foreign Reuters or someone gave it to someone, so it was only yesterday announced but the government knows that letter, for that letter also knows about the contents of that letter from Friday and prepares the answer to it. Therefore, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration will send all the ministers or the Luxembourg Presidency with a request, asking that this letter be sent to all the European Union foreign ministers in response to our letter because Mrs Del Ponte also sent her letter to the Luxembourg Presidency and requested that it be distributed to all members of the European Union. In this letter, Mrs Del Ponte presents some reviews and some views that we disagree with and we will present our reviews and our answers to that letter, in a letter as I said to the foreign ministers who will go today and no later than tomorrow to the Luxembourg presidency and hopefully distribute all 25 members. Why does it matter? This is important because we expect the European Union to make a political decision on the start of negotiations at the Council of Ministers' meeting next week and that is why we are sending foreign ministers the letter. Regardless of our grades, we respect everyone, everyone has the right to give their grades but also with full self-awareness, full confidence and full responsibility we say that Croatia deserves the start of negotiations. Croatia is living European standards, Croatia is applying European standards and I am sure that of all the countries in Southeast Europe for which the European Union opened a European perspective two years ago that Croatia absolutely deserves and we will support everyone else. Therefore, it is also an assessment of this latest report by Mrs Del Ponte, which I have been repeating since Friday and not yesterday. That's one thing. Secondly, no intelligence service, no matter what country it is, will or can prescribe to the Croatian government what they will do or have ever given us any warrants. As Prime Minister and as a Croatian citizen, I would refuse to work in any direction except for those who have chosen me on this duty and that is my answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33494	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33495	I thank Mr. President for his reply. So, we can conclude that the media inscriptions are falsified, that there is no report by the POA on the intervention of British politics that Croatia must be served by lurking, listening, blackmailing and all that could be read in the paper. So there is no such operation within the Croatian intelligence community. I just wanted to know for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33496	Thank you very much, Mr. Agent Anti Djapic. I now inform you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered within the prescribed deadline an answer to the parliamentary question to Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, as well as to Mr Zvonimir Mršić, and also to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, has not delivered within the prescribed deadline the answer to Mr Zvonimir Mršić, so please do so within eight days. Ladies and gentlemen, at 3 p.m., we will continue the session by proposing a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The current morning has been completed. Thank you and a good run. First, before moving to parliamentary issues, the proposal for a decision to supplement the decision on the establishment of the National Committee, if there are no objections, I would continue. The motion for a decision is representative clubs, the proposal for an act has been adopted at a session, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the 2nd reading of the Law apply when adopting this decision. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. Please vote, who's in favor or against or abstention. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was adopted by 108 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and one vote against. It was adopted in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33583	My colleagues and colleagues who you, who dared to participate and listen to the debate on amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Namely, in this session of Parliament, here is the second time we are going to the policy of amending the Rules of Procedure. For the first time, we have done this in order to set up parliamentary issues, and I think that we have guessed then and in some ways we have made an inter-party agreement that is now being made at each meeting's beginning we see that it works really well by asking these parliamentary questions. The presidency extended with all parliamentary party presidents has sent us an initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure and, of course, if all parliamentary parties supported the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, there is nothing left but to frame it all into the text and content of this Decision. And that is why we propose to you this Decision on amendments and amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I can briefly say that they, in fact, have four issues that may be most significant, which is that there will be a debate at the Council on legislative proposals that have not yet been adopted by the Government or the Working Body because this has proved to be a serious obstacle, given that certain texts of the Government's opinion have not come, or the working body has not come, so we are opening up here the business possibility that the Parliament is also discussing it without an opinion. We also specify in fact the order of debate on agenda points. It is generally determined at the beginning when setting the agenda, however, we now specify exactly when the schedule and the order of debate can be changed. That's when there's no proposer. This is when it comes to the laws of urgency, when it comes to the laws to comply with our right to the European Union and when it comes to the laws of urgency. We also have a priority as a rule that so far we have not introduced an electronic vote. It has been one of the equal forms of voting so far. Today it is a rule and what is also important is a name-calling vote when a representative of the Club requests it. It has also been equal to all other forms of voting so far, and today we are in the Rules of Procedure, so we propose that when the Club asks for a nominal vote to be held, there is no competition with other forms. I repeat this is the proposal that initiated the Presidency with representatives of all parliamentary parties and we believe that this is the best way to actually change the Rules of Procedure in some way by consensus of all because this Rules of Procedure gives us one normative framework for the work of all of us in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33584	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin by reminding why the proposed ones have come forward or why these additions are proposed in the Rules of Procedure. A few months ago, we were in a situation of conflict in the relationship of opposition and ruling, or because the existing provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been interpreted and read differently, or because some areas or moments that occurred in Parliament in the current Rules of Procedure have not been precisely regulated. And because of such attitudes, the disputes were here in this assembly situation and the escape from the Parliament, the difficult words that probably left us in the memory of the people of Croatia, not quite remembered for the good. But that it was necessary to change and touch the Rules of Procedure in the end we all agreed at the moment when we said that such situations in the Croatian Parliament should be avoided. A few months of debate both at the presidency and on the committee should have come with this text before the Parliament and I hope that the proposed changes in the vote will be accepted. I am not going to talk about what is in the amendments and additions proposed because it is true that what is now proposed in most of the issue that we have been dealing with a few months ago. But I will warn of the things most often caused by the conflict, which in these proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure do not solve any possible disputed situation. So I will first comment on Article 3 of the proposed amendments relating to Article 204. Namely, the agenda and the established agenda are discussed and the Chair's obligation to comply with certain rules at the time of the completion of the agenda. The proposed amendment to Article 204 will not solve two important moments. The first is the moment when the amendment to the agenda is proposed during the meeting of the Assembly without the obligation of the chairman to clearly state under what agenda points, under which number of points of the additional item agenda are they going under? And last session was the addition of the agenda when it did not say under which regular number that item would be included as the additional item of the agenda. And at this session, we're going to have an update on the agenda, and it's never been until now that anyone who presides a session of the updated agenda clearly... in order how it will continue to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, there is no such thing. Another example that was present today in determining the agenda when counterpart Lalic warned and reminded correctly of an agreement with the Bureau's session that the agenda points that were not discussed at the previous session, which ended when setting up and drawing up the draft agenda, must be preceded by the points that came later. And in the established order of this session we have fifteen points that were on the agenda past and both before and before, pre-sessions, and yet have not been identified as priorities some of them have been placed at the back of the 15th point, eight points that have been four times at four sessions on the agenda have been put at the end of this agenda. The problem of the opposition proposals that are not discussed at the session when the agenda is put in place is being shifted to the next session without priority to be an initial consequence is that we have both been in the past and today or in this session we will discuss the proposals of the laws that were submitted six months ago. And Mrs. Lalic rightly warned about it this morning. And Mr. Vice President said we'd follow that rule when we change our Rules of Procedure. In the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, there is not a single provision, although at the beginning of the negotiations it was one of the key requirements for it to be regulated by the rules of procedure. It is not clear to me who he is and when he gave up on this, he asked the opposition to be clearly specified in his rules of procedure. Thirdly, after the established agenda, we witnessed a leap of agenda. And it is interpreted that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure will avoid this maximum which is simply not true. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure allow any article to be held by the Government on behalf of the Proposer to defend or explain some law, that it simply does not appear in the Assembly, with the excuse that this item has been prevented, and that at that time no Parliament has to inform when it will be put back on the agenda. I had a request here and a proposal that we should skip the agenda point because the proposer's representative is not in the hall when it comes to it, he simply has to move to the back of the agenda. Because no matter who the proposal is about, it cannot be the one who will dictate respect for the agenda of the pace and content of the work of the Croatian Parliament. This was not accepted either by the Presidency or by the Committee. And there is no solution to this final proposal. In addition to the fact that the laws that comply with the European approval of international contracts and all the laws under emergency procedure can be moved on the agenda without any restrictions. 90% of the agenda are emergency laws, international agreements, and the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European Union. And after these changes to the statutes, 90% of the agenda points will be able to overlap without the Parliament being given any explanation. The fourth thing that this change has not been resolved, and which we have often discussed and in the current article this provision is in Article 110(2). In which it is now prescribed that the chair of a representative who does not adhere to his court discusses the subject of the debate raises a warning. All the time we've been asking for this to be re-falsified that instead of the warning, we've been asking for a warning, and we've been demanding that it be not warned as an opportunity to take away words. And in the meantime, it gave up so that the possibility of giving notice only on the subjective assessment of the chairman in the Rules of Procedure remains. On the way to vote and to move from one way to another, the voting of the provisions in Article 8 of the amendments and additions will also be possible to interpret differently, especially the part that speaks of the club's representative's request to hold a vote on a particular agenda point. In which I warn the Parliament without debate by means of electronic means that we will have a situation to change the way the vote takes place during one item of the agenda. So, for example, we're going to vote on amendments electronically in the law itself by raising our hands. Why clearer formulations are not accepted, and I simply don't understand these provisions. And in view of this, I would like to conclude that the second more serious amendment to the Rules of Procedure is that I would like to believe that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, after the adoption of these amendments, will soon issue the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure in the booklet in order to make it easier for everyone to get along with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33586	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next on behalf of the HDZ Club, representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33587	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ advocates' club will support these changes. I have no reason to repeat everything I have said and on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, we will support the changes in any case because they have arisen as a result of the consensus of all parliamentary parties in this House and we hope that they will contribute to the more efficient and better work of all of us here. As we have regulated the first issue on parliamentary issues in the first amendments to the Rules of Procedure, so we will see if we will need in the future any other institutes that the Rules of Procedure has. Whether they will need to improve certain initiatives have been launched for some other things. But I think this is a good way for the Rules of Procedure to be changed solely by the agreement of everyone. THAT NO ONE imposes solutions on anyone, to which they would restrict each other. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33588	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the National Minority Club, MP Furio Radin. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33589	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues. It is always instructive to discuss the Rules of Procedures of the Croatian Parliament. It's educational because they say things but they say one thing unequivocally. And it's that always consciousness of certain things comes only when you have no power anymore. This kind of Rules of Procedure that we've been changing has been in effect for many years. For many years it did not take the government's opinion, for many years it did not take the opinion of the working bodies, i.e. the government's opinion was needed, pardon and need the opinion of the working bodies. And that is why no one protested, possibly some protests came from the opposition lines at the time. I always thought they were working bodies, for example. It's very important. We have 25 or 26b working bodies at the moment. When I came to Parliament 13, 14, there were 12 or 13. It's a public secret that there were 13 or 14 working bodies at the time. I'm talking about it because right around the working bodies there are words right here in Article 1. It is a public secret that the proliferation of the working bodies came precisely because the seats of the president and vice president were paid for. If you multiply 25 working bodies times 2 you'll get fifty jobs you'll get fifty offices, you'll actually get a certain number of places that affect the budget directly. I repeat, in 92, when I came to Parliament, there were 12 or 13 working bodies. And now we here in Article 1, in Article 1, we say one thing that is unprecedented to me and that is unprecedented to our club. And it is that in the event that the working body does not submit a report to the Parliament, etc., etc. may also be discussed without the opinion of the working bodies. Now let's see how much these working bodies in the Parliament cost. How much money do we give for working bodies? How working bodies actually work in other parliaments in Europe and the world. And we'll see that working bodies are actually crucial places where you really work on documents. We know very well that when it comes to the Plenary Session, so in Parliament, it's more, forgive me, there's no television now, so it's between us, I can say, it's more of a public show than anything else. If it's recorded then I repeat it, it's more of a public play than anything else. [[Intruder: Recording, recording.]] If it's recorded, it's better, no. It better be, it better be a direct transmission. There has never been a large, or very rare turning point in this House as well as in any other Parliament in the world, based on discussions between MPs or debates between parties. You know, Mr. Tomcic, you've been a good president of this House for a long time, you know that I'm telling the absolute truth, and you know that every time there's no television transmission, like I said, like I said now, every time there's a lot of MPs complaining. So at one point now we get a document that, without the opinion of the working body, can actually continue to be debated and it can come to the Assembly itself, at the Plenum itself. I wonder, and I wonder for many years, because even so far, working bodies have had no influence or very little influence. I have witnessed countless times one vote on working bodies and another vote in the Assembly. Countless times the MPs voted yes. I do, for example. On the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities countless times, decisions were made unanimously and that these decisions fell here in the Assembly. How is that possible? Any deals between the parties before? Is there any place where a job is done that has certain consequences, otherwise I don't know why committees would exist. And now if they can still be brought out at once now, suddenly, it wasn't a problem before, and now suddenly it's becoming a problem, is it? So if we can continue the debate now, we can begin the debate in the assembly without the opinion of the working body, actually committees lose, lose any meaning. Instead, what was not easy to say at the time when a certain law came into the procedure, within 10 days or within 8 days, the working body must be in session and must make a decision, it must make a decision. I honestly have a completely different view of what the role of working bodies should be. Imagine in some Parliaments in Europe when discussing the working body on a particular draft of the law and when amendments are given and when amendments are adopted on the working body, then it changes the text of the law and the text of the law then comes to an amendment to the debate at Parliament. Not only is it that when we vote for certain amendments and vote them, it has no value for Parliament, because in Parliament, in a large number of cases, these amendments fall in the first place. But now we are told that a debate can be held on a certain law and without the opinion of the working body. This is the most important, most important moment in the present Amendment of Rules of Procedure. The rest of the National Minority Club is absolutely signing. But since for the Club of National Minorities, in particular the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is one of the central areas where discussions are held, where decisions should be taken. I think that such a change actually reduces the importance of the working bodies and the importance of the committee that we end up coming to the thought that at all, do we need working bodies at all. What's going on with these working bodies? It is debated, if there is, of course, a more debate is being held, amendments are being proposed in the second reading, or if an emergency procedure is being adopted. And in fact, when it comes to debate here in the assembly these amendments have absolutely nothing more, they have nothing to do with it, but it comes to terms of what is really only important, only in a negative sense in political life, and that is, there is an expression of the party's will, there is an expression of what the parties agree and after what the working bodies are discussing. To me this, me and us from the Club of National Minorities this attitude towards such expensive bodies as committees is actually unimaginable. The committees I say also employ a number of people in the administration, who employ at least two people who have outside members who are paid. And now it's suddenly becoming important, because it hasn't mattered in the last ten years, but now it's suddenly becoming important to ask for the opinion of the working bodies. This can also be considered trivial, it can also be considered marginal, but I assure you that in a country like Croatia, which, by the way, has to struggle with the budget, must actually seem excessive and still have bodies that, forgive me, serve nothing, forgive me, but serve nothing. Then, in my opinion, it is something that greatly reduces the importance of this proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Someone's gonna tell whoever's defending the boards to meet and say their opinions. No one defends, but you know what time some time to meet, you know what some time to make certain, certain decisions. Here I think, with the absence of this article, the other articles can actually pass without any changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33590	Thank you very much, colleague. Now he is working on behalf of the HSS Club DC and LS counterpart Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33591	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a real pleasure to meet you after 23. 11. In 2003, for the first time, thanks to all the values of our Rules of Procedure, I can speak from this place. counterpart Bosnjak said all parliamentary parties participated in the adoption of these changes. Unfortunately, I do not know what this means to be an important and less important parliamentary party but it is simply not true and there is in fact the whole problem of our parliamentary system that still exists in our parliament party in the first and second order. It is very interesting that we conduct elections for, say, a number of MPs under special rules but when they enter parliament they get general rights and that's good, because it's very democratic, very European, shows our sensitivity to the minority issue and that some MPs elected under general law, in fact by acquiring circumstances have very different rights. And so I have no illusion that this one, which is always very nice, will hear the consensus of the stated statement that they will not soon be subjected to the changes. Someone's going to say it's a matter of dynamism, that it's a matter of democracy, that it's a matter of being able to even admit that sometimes our solutions aren't quite brilliant. And that, I have to admit from one of these liberal aspects right on behalf of that club, and I'm saying that's good. But that reminds me of that story from the Greek Persian war when the Persians lost some naval battle because they allegedly had big ships and the Greeks were small, so these Greek ships were more easily maneuvered. So then she ordered the Emperor Darius, and there was a great storm, there was a storm that was beating the sea, and that precisely because of that sea and the inability of maneuvers that they had lost that battle. And I get the impression that sometimes we're beating our legal system exactly and by this large number of changes we're showing that it's ours, that a lot of things are far from being defined and that we're actually very often resorting to this very political timing that the moment that we're going to decide then, I don't know that we accept some of the solutions that reality has actually seen for a long time and that in some ways they're making it impossible for us to work in the right way. I'm not going to talk about that in 92 when I also entered this parliament there were 12, 13 working bodies, that they were... that they have doubled, that, in the meantime, we have aged, that there is a difference between the ordinary member of the working body and the president and the vice president that this is also the place, that it is also a place that can be traded very successfully and that very often we are doing so and so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I'm saying here's the decision, we decided to go back to some cosmetic changes, which I say shows dynamism, flexibility, and just that willingness to admit certain mistakes. But I'm saying I'm afraid we haven't actually gotten far from it. We want to show that I don't know that Parliament doesn't have to either, it doesn't have to get the government's opinion and it can work, but I'm afraid it's in addition to this only declarative relationship, so let's say that we are, that we don't actually have a cancelerant system, but that we have a parliamentary system and that Parliament is the one who keeps the main word. That, apart from that, if it makes us happy that it isn't, it still doesn't mean that Parliament has the upper hand over the government. I'm saying, it would be good, if that's the way, I'm going to raise both of my hands, or one of my hands, and say that that's it, but I'm afraid it's actually, that we're fooling ourselves and that further in fact, that it's the government that's saying that in some way it's saying, you know who's wearing it, as the people who are carrying the water and who's mixing the malter. And the same thing about determining the agenda is dangerous when it's a matter of volunteering. I remember here, there were MPs here, I remember some chairpersons not from last term, but something before when colleagues who are sitting too now were protesting very much because that chairman had the custom to interpret the order very freely and that we really didn't know, we didn't know when some point would come on the agenda. And just that possibility of the chairman, no, no, I'll remember 94, 95, I said consciously that I'm not talking about the previous term, and always the chairman has to have a certain discretionary right, but this discretionary right should also in some way be very limited, and then some things come when there's no transmission, so some things are being passed in very late hours, so some important laws are just being passed without the public presence, so it's being brought when we're all pretty nervous, and then it's really going through the norm, it's all actually the facts that we've been facing here these 15 years of our parliamentary democracy and obviously we haven't solved any further. And now this is how we would in some way not be distracted by this volunteerism, but in fact, it would be expanded a little bit with these elements if it were possible to change when it comes to harmonising Croatian legislation with European Union regulations, and to confirming international contracts, so it brings to the proposal laws and other acts by an urgent procedure, that they are, as only those elements that allow. That's actually all, I don't know if we can find any more sub-points for when the chairman has the possibility, there's a possibility that he can behave strictly on that agenda that's been passed. And we can say that it may be the legitimate right of the majority, the parliamentary majority, that some times it's the one who's trying to arrange reality the way she would want it to be. But whether it is really good and whether we are solving our important problems in this way I am not really sure and the Proposer would do well to think about it as I say it still does, regardless of what has changed in the meantime, whether we are still aware that these 152 MPs who are sitting must have the same rights from the office, from the fax office, from the phone, from where he can really do in the right way for what he has received citizens' trust and there is really no reason for these important or less important parliamentary parties, because we are all chosen in the same way, and everyone needed except for some of the same number of votes to enter this Parliament. It also, and it's actually a zero-premise thing that I don't think even this change of rules actually takes care of. It is very good that this electronic vote, that it has finally gained its status in this Rules of Procedure. Until recently, we voted as the old Slavs, and there was a little missing so we could throw stones. So we don't know the angry ones up there who are, too, I have to admit I don't mind and such a way of voting and as old Germans, there's no big difference between old Slaven and old German but this electronic vote... that actually there's no game going on around it, and that if we decided on one of those principles then let's respect that principle until the end. And it would be good if that system worked no matter what. And so I say, on behalf of this reinforced club, it is difficult now to oppose the consensus that has been achieved I say that my colleague Bosnjakovic said all parliamentary parties minus some but we will not be making problems, not because we consider ourselves less important but really some other elements that are just talking about those obligations not only through the working bodies, which can now be less or more important, but rather to allow it right to the workplace and then this job should be described whether it is a minimum, I don't know the phone, fax, so it would be good and there's still no inside, and it would be good to know then, and then we would really all be equal and we could actually do what the citizens chose to do and actually be less concerned with these fines that are there and life, reality impose them on us. Then some times more skillfully or less skillfully solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33592	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSS Club, colleague Ljubica Lalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33593	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament we are discussing today are the arrangements of parliamentary parties reached for the normalisation of the functioning of the Croatian Parliament. In late September of last year, there were serious disturbances that were interpreted by the crisis of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia. How it is the fundamental task of each parliamentary party and each MP to contribute to the Croatian Parliament's functioning with as much dignity as possible is that it has been able to come to an agreement on what and how to do for the normalisation of work. The main objection of opposition clubs was to the broad interpretation of the business provisions in the assessment of whether the speaker is holding the topic or not? To take away the words of the opposition representatives and even when they spoke on behalf of the Club, to step down the right to pause for consultations within the Club, to unresponsive the chairman to insults to opposition MPs, and to the unacceptable level of communication in the Assembly, to the non-respect of Rules of Procedure in voting, to the non-compliance with the established agenda and agreed at the session of the Bureau of Parliament, and to obstruct the debate on issues relevant to the citizens and of course the work of the Committee. They handed their proposal to the opposition clubs in writing to the president of the Assembly at a session held on 29 October 2004. The proposals are contained in 10 points. The Bureau session ended with seven conclusions. As necessary to address the situation, the necessary amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure to be proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system have been shown. Here, from 29 October 2004 until today, the process of preparing the amendments has taken place. Without a desire to analyse the reasons for such a long distance from the conclusion to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we want to make our contribution to normalising the work of the Croatian Parliament. We would therefore support the amendments to the Rules of Procedure which would be in the function of normalisation and guarantee that it would be so long-term. However, based on today's experiences in adopting the agenda, we are convinced that the Rules of Procedure will be one, and the practice will be another, or the Rules of Procedure will be applied according to the interpretation, not the letter. One of the main objections of the opposition clubs was the assembly and respect for the adopted agenda. Engineering of opposition clubs would never come to the debate because they were always at the bottom of the agenda and were also transferred from session to session so that even now we have proposals that were released in the procedure in September of last year, and until today they have not been discussed. During the parliamentary parties' negotiations, it was agreed that new items of the agenda would be added after those remaining from the previous session. This conclusion is agreed to be incorporated into the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and the agreement will apply until the amendments. Today, the agreement has been waived and not only the legal proposals bearing the P.Z.E. mark have been included in the remaining agenda points. i.e. those who align our laws with the laws of the European Union and the proposals which are in the emergency procedure but have also received proposals for the laws that are in the first or second reading. This is a derogation from the agreement, and from the reasoning of the chairman then it is concluded that support for such a procedure is found in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. If so, such amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party cannot be supported because they constitute a derogation from the agreement. It is obvious that the amended article 2004. The Rules of Procedure are not clear enough to interpret the President or the Vice-President at a certain point. We believed that Article 2(3) of the amendment is clear enough, and it reads as follows: The order of the item of the established agenda, except in the case referred to in Article 205(2) and (3) of this Rules of Procedure, is amended by the agreement of all the Clubs of Representatives. But it's not like that. Today, no one asked any of the clubs. Of course we can be answered that no changes have been made yet. That is true, but there is an agreement to be applied until the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 4 of the amendment, the President of the Parliament may amend the order of debate and the points supplementing the agenda when it comes to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the regulations of the European Union, the confirmation of international contracts and inter-state contracts and agreements and the draft law or other acts proposed under the urgent procedure. At first glance, the provision would seem acceptable. This would be so if only those proposals that meet the business conditions for such proceedings were entered into the emergency procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that an exceptional law can only be adopted by emergency procedure when the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons require it to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. Today, several laws have entered the agenda that have no conditions for such proceedings. The Act on Financial Agency is already mentioned here, so the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities, and the Act on amending the law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government and so on. So it's about the abuse of Rules of Procedure and the arrangement. If that's what's going to happen in the future, then it's pointless and a deal and a Rules of Procedure that should have legalized the deal. Then we didn't do anything and all the efforts made to normalize the work of the Sabra are the most common farce. The question is, how is it possible for a bill that has no business assumptions to enter the emergency procedure? Well, it's possible that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is not doing its part of the job. It is his obligation to protect the application and respect of the Rules of Procedure. How it has become a practice for most laws to be passed by emergency procedure is obvious that the Committee allows it. We can only guess about the reasons. The consequence is that they are passed, bad laws are passed, and that is why they change too often. This is certainly not a contribution to legal certainty. So before us is the proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure which, at first sight, seemed to be the realization of the conclusions reached. In practice, it's not like that. In practice, we're taking a detachment. The derogation from the agreement, and only the deviation from the agreement means a derogation from the Rules of Procedure itself. And for this reason, we from the Croatian Peasant Party Club will refer to the procedure of some amendment, an amendment that would just protect the principle and consistency of the implementation of the agreement. The Rules of Procedure can only be the result of the agreement. However, the Rules of Procedure may be applied correctly if it is applied in the spirit of reason and purpose for which it has been adopted. Depending on the fate and our amendments, the final decision will also depend. The decision to give support or not to support the Rules of Procedure, as simply a Rules of Procedure that would be a cartoon of the agreement reached would not be acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33594	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33595	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club considers that the amendment to this Rules of Procedure has started a good practice. DA's Rules of Procedure are changed by consensus. I agree with all the clubs. Of course, in each parliament, the parliamentary majority has the opportunity to make independent decisions regardless of the opposition of the parliamentary minority. It would not be good if the regulations governing the work which is therefore an internal regulation which speaks about how it works and in this Parliament should be adopted by the parliamentary majority's own will. We praise that practice. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure were necessary because they addressed the issues that burdened Parliament's work at the very beginning. And it has sometimes led to very, very unpleasant situations that have not been well received in public. It was all there from the unequal relationship of the chairman to representatives from different clubs depending on whether they belong to the parliamentary minority or to the parliamentary majority, to taking away the words from the MPs, and even when they perform on behalf of their clubs. Until the disapproval of the club break which was really precedent, it has never happened before. But the worst thing that happened was the manipulation of the vote in the Zuzula case. The decision was then taken without a quorum, and it has been proven by journalists to prove the names by listing which representatives were in the hall and which were not there. This led to the crisis of parliamentaryism, the crisis of this Parliament, and almost to the crisis of parliamentaryism then the opposition made a decision to boycott the vote, not to take part in the vote by protesting the falsification of the vote's results. And that's why for principled reasons, because then the meaning of any parliamentaryism is lost. What is the choice for which most people make, if the results of the vote are to be declared that do not correspond to the truth. The changes were therefore necessary to address these burning issues. And will this Rules of Procedure still need to be changed? The SDP club believes it will need to be further changed if it continues with bad practice. And we fear that despite this agreement of clubs and given one will to resolve these issues in agreement, it continues. In particular, if the poor practice of selectively sharing notes continues, this is Article 214. Subtracting words, with an explanation to deviate from the subject, is selective again to someone not to. Which, in fact, you know, limits the basic right of every representative. First counsel is to speak. To speak. To warn him about the subject can be used in an exceptional case if, as happened, the counsel by mistake starts to talk about the wrong law. That's what we had in this conference, one of our colleagues misjudged that the other law was on the agenda, so he came here for a pay phone and talked about the wrong law. Then it is justified for the chairman to warn him that he missed the agenda point. But when, for example, Changed when a small change is made, e.g. The Law on Courts begins to talk about the situation in the judiciary about the context for which a law is passed. Then the chairman would have no right to warn a representative and at least take away his word. Because speech is the only weapon of a representative. The only one he can use. He was called on behalf of those who chose him, to speak of issues that were of interest to those who chose him. Therefore, any restriction on any strict application of this Rules of Procedure which would then go to reduce the right to speak would not be good. Unfortunately, this practice continues even after parliamentary parties have agreed, and it will likely be necessary to continue this consensus in order, regardless of the attitude of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority, to allow MPs to act freely, freely, openly, without prejudice to their duties. One more thing in this parliamentary practice that goes on and after the agreement is unacceptable to us at the SDP club. And that is that the chairman allows himself to comment on the presentations of the MPs. On the pretext that he's giving clarifications. And none of these clarifications were asked of him, nor were there any clarifications, but it was a political commentation of political speech. He shall be chaired by a representative and shall have the right to speak and replicate and respond to any exposure of any representative. But within the framework of their legal rights. It is that from his seat he applies for debate and speaks of what he will and in the way he will. But when commenting on the presentation of another representative as chairman, then abuses the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on giving explanations. And we didn't even have a case this morning on the parliamentary issues that the chairman allowed her to comment on the parliamentary issue. That is to say, the dissent of the MPs with the answer to his question. If such a practice continues, we will have to amend the Rules of Procedure in such a way that the Chairman cannot take on rights that are not even logical, and which, in fact, by the terms of this Rules of Procedure, do not belong to him. The SDP Club warned or tried to warn at one session of the Constitution Committee when preparing these amendments to the Rules of Procedure on another bad practice for which we are all to blame. This has been frequented by the abuse of correcting the incorrect allegations and violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's what we all do. When a representative does not want to have the courage to enter a duel with the possibility to respond to a replica and then abuse the correction of an incorrect quote and in fact replicates it. And it's actually replicating. When a representative who thus corrects the incorrect claim feels the need to respond, he also abuses what, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, answers the correcting of the incorrect assumption, in fact, by breach of the Rules of Procedure, or by correcting the incorrect allegations, or by breach of the Rules of Procedure. As a result, the SDP Club has proposed to prepare for the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, so the only authorising officer in amending the Rules of Procedure, to amend this famous Article 209 which is used most frequently here. The most common infringement of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Until now, the President of the Parliament had to completely reject it more fully as soon as someone told him in 209 it wasn't 209, it couldn't be broken. To amend this Article 209 in such a way that the correction of an incorrect quote can be used only after the presentation of the applicant, the Government representative, or the representative speaking on behalf of the Club. As it is so far. That's how it's been in the Rules of Procedure so far. And to remain an option between MPs, so it responds to the correction of the incorrect assumption, actually by breach of the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't about correcting the incorrect allegations, it wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure. As a result, the SDP Club has proposed to prepare for the meeting of the Constitution Committee, so the only authorising applicant in amending the Rules of Procedure to amend this famous Article 209 most frequently used here, most often in breach of Rule 209. So far as the President of the Parliament had to, with more complete rejection, as soon as someone told him in 209, it is not the 209th that cannot be broken. To amend this Article 209 in such a way that the correction of an incorrect quote can be used only after the presentation of the motionors, representatives of the Government or representatives who speak on behalf of the club, as it has been so far. That's how it's been in the Rules of Procedure so far. And that only replica and reply to the replica may remain between the MPs. That would be consistent with, well, the tradition of speaking. That one who has a basic exposure to his actually being the last. That there's an opportunity to respond to a disagreement, so to the replica. This would free us from these frequent violations of the Rules of Procedure, an apparent violation of the Rules of Procedure. This would make it infinitely easier to work on the chairman who would not have to constantly warn that someone infringing the Rules of Procedure is raising the record wrongly. In the end, it would restore the reputation of this House, which has often been hit by this kind of nonsense. And the people who look at us rightly think, so they don't know, they don't have culture or replication. So they don't know how to fight or to face each other. We think it would be in everyone's interest. If this isn't a positional or opposition issue, this isn't anyone's special interest, this is the interest of all of us. This is the interest of this House. And that is why the SDP Club is calling on the Constitution Committee as the sole author of the proposal, because we cannot now go by amendment, we cannot because 209 does not change in these changes, and we cannot propose any new amendments by amendment. But the SDP Club calls the Constitution Committee. We'll probably vote on this on Friday, so by Friday I'll prepare the amendment, prepare the amendment myself, so the board president can consult with the club presidents. We're convinced there's no club president, a club representative who'll have anything against this. And that the Committee on the Constitution intervenes with its little amendment in Article 209 to resolve this matter already with these changes, not to delay the ad definition, to some other changes, who knows when it will be. And the SDP Club invites all those who are holding a session to take care of these issues that I was talking about at the beginning, so if this bad practice continues, then it will be necessary to continue the arrangements, cooperate on further amendments to the Rules of Procedure because there is no point, no sense in having any MPs, any one who conducts a session of disgrace in one way to actually break this Rules of Procedure. It's an operational act that needs to help us keep things smooth and simple. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33596	Thank you very much, colleague. I find that there are no more applications for this agenda item. We can move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33597	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are going to vote on the part of the debated points. Please use the key to determine the quorum. I'm asking for a result. 87 MPs and MPs have been identified, so we have a valid quorum. The first is the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate on the proposal for a Decision is over. The amendments were filed by the HSS representative club. I would like to ask on behalf of the motion of the President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr Bošnjakovic to show itself. Amendment number one first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33598	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee does not accept this amendment. The decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure was made exactly in accordance with an inter-party agreement, only that in some parts of the no-technically improved text. What is proposed by the amendment to establish the agenda of the Assembly's session as a rule at the beginning of the session is also in our proposal, and the addition would be that priority have points remaining from the previous session. It is not disputed that these points are being broken down from previous sessions, however, we do not believe it would be justified for the Rules of Procedure to be put in place precisely for the sake of the Law relating to the harmonisation of our right with the acquiss of the European Union, for the sake of emergency laws and for the laws confirming international agreements. That's why we don't think it would be justified for this amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33599	Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33600	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The argument Mr. Bosnjakovic presented does not stand in any way. This amendment does not prevent laws adopted under a special procedure, laws for the European Union, emergency laws from taking precedence over lagging points. This has absolutely nothing to do with each other, however, I will remind you that the incorrect information with which Mr. Bosnjakovic began to make these Amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure fully in line with the interparty agreement. The inter-party agreement is exactly what the HSS proposed also meant, and that was what we discussed at inter-party meetings, agreed and agreed on. If this amendment is rejected, Mr. President, then I'll have to conclude that in this House, any negotiation becomes inter-party. This is an inter-party agreement which you, Mr. President, have participated and attended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33601	Please, peace. Col. Tomčić, all the representatives of the clubs, all of them, signed the own-handedly in full this text Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, all of them signed and the Committee on the Constitution has only fully transposed this interparty agreement into the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. You're looking for a vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33602	Thank you very much. You haven't misinformed the public, it's exactly what you said, but, Mr. President, when one thing's been arranged five, six times, and when in good faith everything that's been arranged and transferred to paper, then people don't look, and they sign, etc. I assure you and you well know that what I'm saying is part of an interparty agreement. Why he hasn't been transferred to the record, it's part of a special story. There is no blackmail I am merely notifying that the HSS Club will not vote for this Rules of Procedure, but also if this amendment is rejected but also that we will be very reserved in the future when it comes to inter-party settlement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33603	Please. Let's get involved, let's go to the vote on this amendment. I'm asking for a result. 34 for the amendment, 8 abstentions and 62 against, did not get the required majority. Amendment 2. Mr. Bosnjakovic's representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33604	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee does not accept the second amendment, as we believe it should be possible for the president to change the order of debate on points, when the points refer to the laws adopted under the urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33605	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33606	Thank you, Mr. President, for the club's explanation, of course, for teaching the previous explanation. As a rule, the urgency of the procedure would not mind being put into the agenda, precisely on the basis of experience from this session, when we come into emergency procedures without having at all the conditions for emergency procedure and in such a way actually paving out all the points of the agenda and allowing for what happened to your historic meeting when we agreed that the agenda was respected and that there was a certain order. That is why we have proposed this amendment that priority be given to those laws that are in line with European Union legislation, that priority be given to international contracts, but because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, we have proposed to delete the priorities of the laws entering the emergency procedure. Because even this time when we adopted the agenda, priority was given to those laws that entered into the ordinary procedure, and remember when we agreed that we had said that no matter what the Rules of Procedure had not adopted, the agreement would be respected until the Rules of Procedure was passed, and now unfortunately we see that even the Rules of Procedure will not contribute. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33607	Please engage. Please vote. The result, 32 for, 7 abstentions and 65 against. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please engage. We can vote. I'm asking for a result. We have to vote again. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure has not been adopted because it has not been delivered by 77 votes. 74 votes are for, 6 abstentions, 14 against, so there are no qualified majority of 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33608	The next item is the fourth item of the agenda, that is: 4. Proposal for a law on the approval of the International Convention to combat terrorist attacks with explosive devices, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 251 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act. I remind you that the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. You can put up with the amendments until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. On behalf of the promoter, state secretaries Hidajet Biscevic and Gordan Bakota were supposed to be. We have a secretary of state, Mr. Bakota. Would you like to further explain the proposal on behalf of the applicant? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Bakota.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33609	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention, which again shows that the Republic of Croatia is part of a broad international anti-terrorism coalition. And that's why we keep this confirmation of the law extremely important. It is a convention brought by the United Nations Security Council on 28 September 2001. Resolution 1373 on a comprehensive strategy to combat international terrorism. It obliges all countries to take measures to prevent terrorism and to access relevant conventions. Croatia has already joined a total of six conventions and this is a new convention on the prevention of terrorist attacks. It is a convention that regulates the first criminal acts. It is said that it is intended and illegal to deliver, place and detonate explosives or other deadly devices at or contrary to the public place of the state or government facility, public transport funds or infrastructure facilities, residential causes of death, or serious physical injury or major damage to such a place, facility or system. It also defines who commits a criminal offence, the person who commits a criminal offence, who participates in the conduct, organises or manages the conduct of that crime. And also States Parties are obliged to establish their jurisdiction in written criminal acts. What I would like to stress is that the word confirms that the United Nations should play a central role in coordinating the fight against terrorism of this all-important, very important issue in today's international relations. I would like to stress this again, thus putting Croatia back in a circle of member states of the broad international anti-terrorism coalition under the auspices of the United Nations, and we therefore propose that the law in question be passed, particated by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33610	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, colleague Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33611	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On 8 March 2005, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention for the Prevention of Terrorist Attacks with Explosive Devices, with the Final Proposal submitted by the President of the Croatian Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 10 February 2005, with a proposal that, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Proposed Law shall be adopted by emergency procedure. Members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests of the Republic of Croatia for which it is proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. The proposing representative states that the Republic of Croatia has opted for co-operation with neighbouring countries, regional organisations, as well as with the United Nations and the United Nations to fight international terrorism more effectively. Access to this Convention to combat terrorist attacks with explosive devices will be joined by the Republic of Croatia by the majority of members of the United Nations who have joined the Convention, thereby contributing equally to the repression of the phenomena to be regulated by the Convention. The Committee supported the position of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and does not object to the proposal to pass this law by an urgent procedure because it assesses that the law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the Committee believes that accession to this Convention for the Republic of Croatia is a proof of the desire to strengthen cooperation with other countries, evidence of its real democracy and willingness to participate actively in the realisation of all forms of international cooperation. Therefore, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention for the Prevention of Terrorist Attacks by Explosive Devices in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33612	Thank you very much, colleague. There's only one club registered on behalf of the clubs. A fellow representative of Shima Lucin on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33613	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, just a few words. This law confirming one of the essential conventions of the United Nations actually represents one in a series of laws. It might simply be time for at least some set of questions and conventions that we confirm that we may open up a debate on their content for a simple reason, I know it's a routine job and that it's done with the logic of things by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but for the simple reason that this is one of seven conventions, and I know that there are others that are important to justify and determine the actual internal structure and internal legislation of the state related to the fight against terrorism. I don't think there's any need to talk to anyone here or to the Croatian public about the fact that terrorism has become I would dare say one of the greatest evils and as the world becomes, therefore, a global village so and terrorism becomes a global evil. We simply in this if you read this convention you will actually see that there is a series of opportunities to first and foremost criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and some other things are being completed. In fact, by accepting and joining this convention, we have an obligation to do so. I could take a few examples, but let's say you know that according to Croatian legislation, or under the Croatian Constitution, you cannot extradite a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, for example, who committed a crime in the area of some, normally I mean terrorism, in another country. But then why don't we do the next one. Since the penalties prescribed in the Republic of Croatia for these offences are much easier than in some other countries, let me say that in our neighbouring countries they would not coordinate. The second question, this convention, among other things, let me say, is that it includes certain forms of cooperation, so as far as the narrow plan is concerned, so the neighbours and as far as the plan is concerned. What is particularly good is that the introduction, i.e. in the context of this law, is written, which is that Croatia agrees and that Croatia participates in the international anti-terrorism coalition only under the auspices of the United Nations. So that's also very important as a political message. I think that when it comes to terrorism and when it comes to explosive devices, I in Croatia actually have relatively fresh experiences about it. After all, you know either today or yesterday or a year or two ago when you're having some kind of explosion you never know if it's tied up, it's very difficult to define if you haven't solved the crime, whether it's related to some kind of organized crime or whether it's related to some kind of terrorist act. So let's just say that we recently passed the Law on both mine-explosive substances, and I actually think that we've actually regulated it relatively well, and that's why I suggest that simply those in charge, so when we adopt these conventions, that is, when we approach them to take one step forward, and that's that we're actually defining at least a part of the important things that are contained in these or in these conventions. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33614	Thank you very much, colleague. No more reports. You want some? The secretary of state didn't answer for a word. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33615	The second item is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention for the control of terrorist attacks with explosive devices, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 251. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 103 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33616	5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, the first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 259 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've accepted an emergency procedure. You've received the acts. The first and second readings were united. Amendments until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Foreign Policy. You've received reports. Any word from the board? Yeah. Foreign Policy Committee, MP Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33617	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The lectured colleagues and fellow representatives of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament held on 9 March 2005 discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb-Montenegro minority in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 17 February 2005, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the bill as an interested working body. The applicant's representative pointed out that the basis for the conclusion of this Agreement is Article 16. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Following the debate, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serbian-Montenegro Minority in the Republic of Croatia by an urgent procedure. The Committee on Foreign Policy also concluded that the Croatian Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Croatia is being asked for a full report on the position of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33618	Thank you very much, colleague. No one else from the board answered. Let's take it in a row. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33619	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is certain that this agreement should be supported, for it should be raised both hands. When Croatia is in line, this agreement does not go beyond the current standards when the Serb minority is by comparison, i.e. does not go beyond those standards defined by the Constitutional Law on the position of minorities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and other minority laws. So I would almost dare say that this agreement de facto concerns Croats in Serbia and, in no way should it be discredited by the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia, so neither must Croats in the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. And it's okay to finally take care of these populations as we say Italy also takes care of its minority in Croatia and Slovenia. We are all also witnessing that only 10 years ago, an unfair war was waged on Croatian soil, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia and BiH were victims of aggression. The Serbian population, mainly in the so-called provinces, was infatuated with Milosevic's politics and followed by a terrible war that threw back 15 years of Croatia. Only now have we reached a gross social product from the 1990s, while Serbia's war has been thrown back 30 years. Today, Serbia for Croatia is about as much as Croatia is for Austria. It is certainly so good that the official authorities in Belgrade also mocked that handful of adventurers who are trying to form a country government in, I don't know, emigration in Belgrade. The truth is, a huge number of Serbians left the Republic of Croatia after "Storm". And these people need the help of the OSCE, but without it, they need a clear return. No one in it can be chit-chatted. The return must be completely free and finally, what we have irrevocably destroyed after 2Storm 95th is to be restored because "Storm" has not destroyed some imaginary property, but Croatian property clearly owned by citizens of Serbian nationality. It is certainly good that it has come to this, I will call it the establishment of a normal communication between Zagreb and Belgrade. It is so good that Mr. Sanader went to Belgrade a few months ago or, say, Mr. Tadic recently came to the inauguration of Stipe Mesic, unlike Janez Drnovsek. And it is so good that there is a constant improvement in economic co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. And finally, Croatia's only positive balance of payments at this time has precisely with Serbia-Montenegro. We realize such a surplus that it is inappropriate to mention it, but surely it is good for the Croatian economy and for the Republic of Croatia. That's how much it takes to stop playing with the fates of little people. Everyone in this country regardless of whether he is a Serb, Italian, Bosniak, Roma, Jewish, Slovenian must feel like every other citizen of Croatian nationality because we are all notes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why sometimes, I say, it's offensive to ask who the nationality is even though no one in this country should be ashamed of their nationality. However, it is one thing for a parliamentary speaker to comment on these moments, and the other is simply life outside of this assembly. Many Serbian nationalities in the Republic of Croatia do not want to be declared because they are afraid that, for example, children will find it harder to get to work or that they will lose their jobs. It often applies to some other minorities, although clearly let's not forget that until yesterday, so to speak, there was a war on these premises. However, if the private sector cannot be affected because the owner is the owner. It is he who chooses who will give a job to whom, where the state is an employer, in hospitals, in administration, in ministries, in public enterprises, there must be no discrimination among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their nationality. I am pleased to mention in this Agreement between the rest and the Montenegrin minority. Among other things, because of one of those little Montenegrin enclaves, not to mention minorities in Istria. Now they've been there since 1500 and some or 1600 and some. No one in Istria experiences them with a minority or strangers, but with one word from the Istrians. But if they feel that way themselves and I, more specifically, we all have to respect that expression. I will mention this opportunity and their priest, Mr. Ljubotina. In the period from 91 to 95, we can say that he was the only Orthodox priest to walk in his mantle to Croatia. He owed not only Orthodox people in Istria but also Istria, and it is not surprising that he was recognized in the same way as the Roman Catholics in the same way as the Roman Catholics in his church. Today he is a representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Brussels and I am convinced that he and Croatia will represent as well as their community. So dialogue is possible. As time goes on, I am convinced that this dialogue will become more and more honest and better. It is a pity that the time of late Prime Minister Djindjic may not have been used, but I am convinced that if we do not make a distinction between people in public services, if we do not wonder who the Croatian, Serbian, Italian, etc., this country will not have interethnic problems but only those of the economic, or social ones. That's why I often say, it's not a problem in this country parity. It is clear that this parity is necessary, but actually parity is nothing more than a schedule of functions among the political elite. It is clear that the Serb minority must be fairly represented in Parliament, in the government, in the county heads. However, it certainly matters to these people, but it is even more important to this national minority that they can work, members of the minority and as tram drivers, both as doctors and as officials in municipalities, and as representatives in the State Administration, in the military, police, etc. I'm going to say once again that IDS welcomes this agreement. First of all, it will receive, in our opinion, the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Croats in Serbia-Montenegro, because the rights of the Croats there were not, under quotes, institutionalised as in Croatia, where Croatia was, among other things, under the pressure of the International Community to guarantee the highest, under quotes, formal rights. So formal rights exist, and real rights need to be talked about clearly. Clearly, in this country with 330 thousand unemployed, the Croats are dissatisfied, both Serbs and Slovenians, and Jews, Roma, Bosniaks. In a country where pensioners have average pensions relative to the average salary of only 41%, all those I counted are dissatisfied. In a country where international forums ask for what we simply can't physically meet about approaching the European Union, almost everyone has been humiliated. And all in all, in a way, and this agreement by my court is a sign that today in Croatia there is not such a problem with the government's relationship with minorities in this formal sense. In the sense that he was formalized by constitutional law, laws, etc., although I agree, until yesterday, minorities were not always easy. Already today, the crucial problem of both minorities and the majority becomes the economic, or social character of life in these areas. In one word, the battle for naked survival, to solve those everyday, essential, material, one word, existential issues. In front of the IDS Club, I welcome this agreement. Too bad he was a few years late, but I think he too will change the international community's relationship with Croatia when it comes to resolving minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33620	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club colleague Zlatko Tomčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33621	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State. I would first and foremost observe this agreement in the context of a long, difficult, normalisation of relations between the two countries, after all that happened in the early 1990s, with all the consequences we know too much about and shouldn't be overly repeated and salty wounds. Any benevolent will accept that the actual confirmation of this Agreement is also a sign of good European standards and good European practice and today could be said either in one way or in no way at all, or you will adhere to European standards and be part of Europe, or you will be at the edge of that Europe and all that Europe today has heritage, not only through its legal system but also through your life practice. In that sense, I view this Agreement and the confirmation of this Agreement as actually a normal sequence of what was happening in these areas, is it right when fellow Cain says that it did not happen two, three years earlier in this process it is sometimes difficult to determine the dynamics of such difficult things and things. By reading this Act and all that is written, it is easy to agree that the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of Croats outside Croatia, it is easy to accept the fact that, by breaking the state legal link with the former SFRY and declaring the Republic of Croatia as an independent state, a large number of Croats remained outside the national borders. It is likely very easy to accept the fact that Croats and other national minorities in today's Serbia-Montenegro only in 2002, so 2, 2 and a half years ago, gained some status and some national minority rights. That one difficult process is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed this Agreement in April 1996 and was signed on 15 November 2004. It is also easy to agree with the fact that this Agreement will pave the way for the right of members of national minorities in both countries, the right to express, preserve and develop national and cultural and linguistic and religious identities, as well as the right to maintain, develop minority education, or education, media to achieve the special interests of minority members. It is easy to agree that the two parties, the two states, undertake to ensure freedom of choice, expression, that they are protected by their cultural goods and traditions, the right to preserve national identity, religion, the right to education in language and letter, etc. All this is easy to accept for exactly what I was talking about at the beginning is all part of a European standard that obviously needs to be brought to life in these areas. In that sense, the HSS Club will, of course, adopt this Act and we will vote for this Law but we will take advantage of the opportunity to discuss in this House the things that are being kept quiet and at least do not want to talk about. Because this applies to those people on both sides of the border, one and the other members, one and the other national minorities who can consume these rights, who have realised the right to return and who, more importantly, have realised the right to some material goods. I believe that the Republic of Croatia is well-implemented by its laws, in the end speaking and practice lately with which members of the national minorities in particular of Serbia and Montenegro are relatively satisfied, of course there are certain exceptions. And here we come to a key point, where we have to have the strength to say not to declare it here that in that sense we're not completely symmetric. Those who have great remarks in my way of expression probably don't know that I grew up in Sreme. So I will take this opportunity to tell them that their excessive concern about the purity of the Croatian language and not respecting the fact that Croats have grown somewhere else, and somewhere else they have learned their native language actually leads to its kind of phobia, Croatian-phobicity. I am sorry that my colleagues who think about it this way are not in the hall, but precisely because of my background for this place of growing up, because of the origin of my family, I have the right to say that precisely from this area of mine from Srijem during the last war has been banished in the most harsh way, and that is a little bit spoken of by 22 thousand Croats only from Srijem, who have been exiled by the ultra-nationalistic, ultra-extremist policy of Seselj's radicals. Not as members of the Serb national minority left during the "Storm" from Croatia that was, their departure was organised by those who wanted to end the whole story and compromise. The Croats from Srijem went simply under force, left with a plastic bag in their hands, with complete assets that they had created for centuries as benevolent peasants, Srijem is a rich end, benevolent craftsmen, benevolent craftsmen, intellectuals, lawyers, doctors, etc., therefore benevolent people. Today, these people are mostly 22,000 people living in Croatia under various circumstances, but their right to return to Sreme, and their right to return their property has never been said a single word anywhere. And let no one think that this exhibit of mine can call it any kind of heresy, no, this is not heresy this is simply an attempt for members of national minorities, Serbs in Croatia and Croats in Serbia and those whose status is still reversible and ownership undefined must be identical. There is no emotion in my presentation except for one grudge to my former government and today's government that this subject is being silenced. I spoke on this subject several times at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy insisting that this become a topic which has the right of citizenship in the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Croatian Parliament. It's the right of the public. Not expecting us to be able to talk about some kind of complete reciprocity right now. We cannot speak because Croatia is simply a more European country, Croatia has improved more in respect of European standards, in Croatia it is easier to apply the right to return, the right to ownership, etc. than it is in today's Serbia-Montenegro, it is evident. But the fact that it is difficult there today doesn't give us the right here in Croatia to silence the fate of so many people. I am talking about 22 thousand Croats from Srijem, from Kukojevac, from Hrtkovci, from Platčev, from Beška, from all over the village of Ruma and Srijemska Mitrovica, etc. I'm afraid there's little to know about. They all did well in Croatia. They're all successful farmers today, they're all successful craftsmen, they're all doing their jobs there today. But they lost part of their lives and part of their property. And when I talk about this subject, then I'd like to say that this House has to start and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to start talking about the subject that these people, no matter what they're lost, can't always come back, but if nothing else in a material sense can come back to them. Why am I talking about this? It's precisely because they went under duress most often and there are some formal legal papers, some sort of house swap deal, some sales deal, some kind of deal that was usually signed under the threat of weapons, the days when certain villages or streets in certain villages were mass evicted. And everybody knows that. Today's authorities in Serbia-Montenegro know that. Today's residents from Srijem and today's government know that, too, we know that here in Croatia. Let's not let this be a taboo topic anymore. By opening this topic, we will not violate our commitment in the Republic of Croatia that in a quality way our laws guaranteeing the rights of national minorities in both cultural and material terms, to continue to support them, to continue to insist on them, etc., but we will open up a new topic on which we must begin to get used to our fellow politicians on the other side of the border from Serbia-Montenegro, that they too must accept these standards. I apologize, Madam Vice President, if I have abused this pay phone, but I think the subject is actually acceptable under this agreement. This agreement treats mainly, I would say the spiritual rights of national minorities, and material rights and the right to return are not represented. My appeal is that what we in Croatia have decided to make clear to our partners on the other side of the border that they too have to solve in the same way in due time as we did in Croatia. This law will certainly be accepted by us at the HSS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33622	Thank you, colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague of President Neven Mimica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33623	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will say immediately at the beginning of the SDP Club will support and welcome this ratification of the agreement on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and of the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in Croatia. And it would be very good if we could just stay on that statement. However, the state of affairs in the mutual protection of minorities requires that, with this ratification, we say something else. The agreement on mutual protection of minorities signed on 15 November last year welcomes the confirmation of the overall policy of strengthening good neighbourly relations, the confirmation of one continuity of normalisation of relations with Serbia-Montenegro, the confirmation of the policy of regional co-operation and the provision of contributions and demonstration of the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for regional stability and respect for European values throughout the region of Southeast Europe. On the one hand, this agreement meets the constitutional obligation to care for the position of Croats in other countries. On the other hand, the willingness to implement such constitutional obligations is confirmed to protect the rights of other national minorities in Croatia. That is why we have undeniable evidence here that Croatia is ready and able to understand and apply the highest standards of protection of national minorities and that it expects such standards from other countries in which the Croatian national minority lives. When the issue of protection of minorities is put in the context of European integration, then we come to the conclusion that both Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro show that they accept that protection of minority rights is one of the fundamental democratic values, fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen on which the European Union operates. In Europe, without solid and inaccessible borders of the minority, they become in the right sense a bridge that brings together the majority of peoples, a link between the future European community. Minorities that protect and support the majority of the people cease to be the cause and protagonist of the war for borders and to attempt to place all members of the same nation within the same national borders. It is therefore good to show this understanding before we become members of the European Union. In Croatia, the rights of national minorities are governed by the constitutional law of December 2002. The constitutional framework has introduced standards of minority rights that can be found little in Europe, standards that are higher and more specific than the standards of minority rights applied by most EU Member States that have so persistently pointed out the need for Croatia to address this specific political criterion for its further progress towards membership in the European Union. And no one in Croatia should be sorry that we can today and we are the model of regulating and respecting the rights of national minorities, because we have demonstrated a high democratic consciousness and democratic relationship towards this sensitive issue. The more we came to such a level and to such understanding of minority issues, the more we came through a difficult and painful war experience in which they proved to be tragic how different views and illusions about how to solve minority issues in Croatia can be. The protection of the rights of the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in Croatia as governed by the agreement we are considering today stems from our Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and is further specified by a bilateral agreement, which is also referred to in Article 6. Constitutional law. The joint impact of the implementation of the whole of the Constitutional Law and of this Agreement ensures the conditions for the permanent maintenance and preservation of essential components of the rights and freedoms of the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in Croatia and the self-loathing of their faith, languages, traditions, education and education, cultural heritage, access to means of public communication, self-organization and association, representation in representative administrative and judicial bodies and public life and the management of local affairs. This gives us the right and the obligation to regulate and expect to implement the same level of protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro in this bilateral contract. And here we come to the first reason why the SDP Club wants to say something further with this undeniable and desirable international contract. No unnecessary explanation and no length. We want to point out the need for everything agreed here as a level and way of protecting the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro to be without delay and fully implemented in real life and that these rights of the Croatian minority are not subject to good or bad will, interpretation of whether local or central institutions of government. The SDPs are in favour and will advocate to do so in Croatia, and therefore has the right to expect it to be in Serbia-Montenegro as well. Another question we would like to point out from this pay phone is the awakening of ideas and actions among Serbia in the refugee members of the Croatian Serb minority about so-called. The restoration assembly and the government in Republika Srpska's refugee. As much as it is true that it is political marginalists, and as much as it has been tried to declare political fantasies, we consider it important to say clearly from this place and to say that this incident is unacceptable for the Republic of Croatia, but that it is at least equally harmful for Serbia-Montenegro's interests, especially in terms of their contribution and strengthening regional stability, faster integration into Euro-Atlantic integration and the development of relations with Croatia. It is good that the official Zagreb responded in this direction that the official Belgrade, with unnecessary delay, had fenced itself from the event and condemned it and it is best that the real original representatives of the Serb minority in Croatia responded with a real political message. In this at least random moment chosen to revive the impatience between the majority people and minorities in Croatia and to open up issues that are best addressed by building and respecting all minority rights, it has proved that vulnerable people can be and relations in which so much effort and goodwill has been invested on both sides. A reaction by political representatives of the Serb minority in Croatia that was heading towards forming that Serbs in Croatia should contribute to the stability of Croatian society was possible and was made easier by the fact that an agreement on mutual protection of minority rights exists. And that is why this agreement should and may become a permanent framework for the regulation of the relations between the majority and minority peoples in Serbia and Montenegro, a framework that does not allow otherwise dangerous attempts to instrumentise minorities to achieve difficult prevailing political interests and objectives. All of the above has convinced us of an even greater need for the immediate entry into force and implementation of the agreement on which we are discussing today. It will be the basis and incentive for seeking and implementing a better and appropriate protection of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro while at the same time being the basis for preventing any visions or better said illusion of a different arrangement of the position of the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in Croatia that would deviate from the already achieved level of their contribution to the spirit of understanding, respect and tolerance in the common development of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the SDP Club will support and welcome the confirmation of this agreement for these important reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33624	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, colleague Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33625	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will also support and will vote in favour of the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia and Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb-Montenegro Minority in the Republic of Croatia. We believe, of course, that this is not in Croatia some revolutionary newspaper, given that the state of Croatia and so far with its Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Members of Representatives of Local and Territorial Self-Government, and the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian Parliament, have adopted such frameworks in which national minorities in Croatia can consume all those standards that go to the top of European achievements, and that Croatia will, of course, ratify this agreement will not get anything special new, but we look forward to this agreement when we vote in our Assembly to have the power of an international treaty and will have no power. We also expect the same thing from the neighbouring country that is a co-signator of the agreement. So perhaps just because it is not the Secretary of State I have put out the content of this law to point out some of the things of the agreement itself, which is, of course, all that is stated in Article 2 which will enable the freedom to choose and express belonging to the national minority, that the right to enjoy non-discrimination, to have the right to protect against any activity that threatens or threatens the survival of national minorities, to ensure cultural autonomy, the right to preserve identity and religion, the right to education in writing and language and equal participation in all public affairs in a country in which a minority exists. It is also important to Article 7 which states that parties recognise the right of minorities to report through the press, radio and television in the language and the letter of the minority, as well as Article 9 which ensures representation of national minorities in representative and executive bodies at local level, as well as in representative bodies at regional and state level in the Republic of Croatia, respectively, at the regional republic and state level, the Serbia-Montenegro community. As well as Article 11(2), where it is new that parties, legal persons and citizens of parties may, in order to comply with the principle of this Agreement, provide support to minority associations living in the territory of another State. And what we find very important is in Article 16 which is an intergovernmental mixed committee that will be established and monitored for the implementation of this Agreement. So from that mixed committee in which each country will have a parity number of members... He's writing the law. [[You can't hear the phone.]] Perhaps I should say that we are not pleased with what is this moment in our neighbouring and co-signator of this treaty to the Republic of Serbia and that. that the law is not yet in the formal procedure and that, given the organisation of our neighbouring country, it will probably take longer because the assumption that it will be adopted by the first provinces and later federal and therefore we expect that all bodies in the Republic of Croatia with parent bodies in the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro will speed up the ratification of the agreement in the bodies of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. What Croatia has provided except for the law and what it will provide additionally and the consumption of this agreement also means funds. So, in 2004, the Republic of Croatia only provided 22 million kunas from its budget for the work of Serbs and Montenegrins as a minority in the Republic of Croatia, of which about a third of the total funds from the budget and 92% were spent according to the Council on National Minorities of Serbs and 8% Montenegrins for the implementation of all those programmes such as the publication of newspapers, printing of books, cultural and artistic activities plus the funds that were, of course, granted to the work by individual counties, certain cities and other bodies in the Republic of Croatia, and these funds are very high in view of the situation in which Croatia is and testifying to the definition of this government to provide minorities and to implement in Croatia everything that is legal, I underline, but also provided. We also expect that the consequences of this law when it is ratified in the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro will also be felt by Croats living there because of the fact that we know that the situation is not what it is based on and the current rules that apply in the state of Serbia-Montenegro. Therefore, the only Croatian-language show on New Sad TV has been abolished, trying to prevent Croatian language from being introduced into schools with alternative introduction of Croatian language dictions cannot be consumed by the right of Croatian entities to express themselves in their national language and letter. In that part of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Thematic Session of the Croatian Minority Subcommittee in neighbouring countries also wants to warn this Assembly and the Croatian public about the situation in which the Croatians are currently in Vojvodina. And we hope, therefore, that we will convince our neighbours that next time Croatia has already passed we will improve the state of the Croatian community in Serbia-Montenegro. We also cannot accept that anyone works outside this Agreement and also as a Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community strongly condemns the activities of individuals in the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro who care for national minorities within the Croatian state, we believe that this Agreement is clearly defined as being the bodies in, whether the States of Serbia-Montenegro or Croatia have the right to care for national minorities in their territory. So, what a group of refugees from Croatia on behalf of some phantom creation that does not exist at all wanted to order the sharpest rejection and build on it, and we believe that this is something that Croatia and Serbia can only harm and benefit in developing good neighbourly relations in the future. Here is the expectation that Croats in Serbia-Montenegro will feel the care of the Croatian state and through the life of this agreement which will have the power of the law I repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community's club supports, supports and votes for this Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities in Serbia-Montenegro and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33626	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33627	I would correct Mrs. Trakostanec's incorrect claim in the sense that she gave incorrect information for the past year. The Croatian state has singled out 22 million kunas for all national minorities, 5 million kunas for the Serb community and the Montenegrin community. Comparing that amount against the total amount for all minorities is only 22% of the total amount that is actually allocated to the work of the national minorities. I mean, that's the exact data and there's no discussion about it given the percentage of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia that's 65%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33628	Thank you. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33629	In this, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 209 and 214 but also mathematics is Wednesday. I'm a graduate economist and I can count percentages. When the amount of 5753, 400 thousand kunas received by Serbs in Croatia are in a relationship with the basics and that is 22 million kuna, it is true, plus those 479 thousand that were received by Montenegrins, which is exactly 28% of the total amount that the Croatian state allocated. So it's an incorrect calculation. Sir, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33630	And it's not a correction of the allegations, it's a correction of the allegations, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In so many cases, it is not correct that you have reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Gordan Bakota State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Much has already been said today and a happy consensus on the issue of ratification of this too important international agreement. I just want to highlight a few things that I think you should say. Indeed this is a historic law, the consequence of more than a decade of diplomatic negotiation and skills in not exactly, not the best years for diplomacy as you all know it. In the 1990s, this Agreement was initiated, and here it is, it is a great pleasure that we managed to sign it last year in the fall. I think it is very important for three reasons, as we have heard here, is important for the overall bilateral relations between Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. It is also important because the international community has accepted it very well, but of course it is very important for the rights of national minorities. In any case, it is the crown of diplomatic activities and wants to create a legal framework which, regardless of political opportunities, will protect national minorities. In any case, for the first time in 2002, Croatians became a recognised national minority in Serbia-Montenegro and now there is a contract that is certainly only the beginning of the exercise of the rights and protection of the rights of national minorities. I would like to emphasise here it is said, the role of the Mixed Committee, the Mixed Committee will play an extremely important role in implementing and overseeing the implementation of this Agreement. Also here was the policy of this government when it comes to national minorities, I really agree that every government of the Republic of Croatia should be focused on the real protection and effective protection of Croatian national minorities, as well as Serbia-Montenegro. I would like to mention here that this is exactly the policy of this government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, for the first time, established a special administration, so far they have been departments dealing with protection and fast about national minorities and settlers. So I think it's an extremely important task for this administration and for the assistant minister. And the foreign ministry will certainly pay particular attention to these issues that are of paramount importance, of course the protection of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. I would also like to point out in the end that the ratification of this Agreement will certainly have a very strong impact and that the ratification of the Agreement in Serbia-Montenegro will be accelerated and diplomacy will use all its mechanisms to support and encourage Serbia-Montenegro to ratify this Agreement quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33632	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DC Club, HSLS, LS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33633	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The DC Club, HSLS, LS supports this Agreement, means right at the beginning that we know our position. However, in my debate, I would like to put emphasis on some questions. Today, we are officially opening the ratification process of this Agreement signed between the two countries on 15 November last year, in which we regulate relations in a very difficult area, the area of national rights, respect for national minority rights. When this short agreement is released, it can be seen at first sight that it is incorporated into the highest standards on human rights, on freedoms, on respect for rights, and on the protection of the rights of national minorities that we can find in the Charter of the United Nations, in the documents of the Council of Europe, in our Constitutional Law, in the Constitution and in all the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia. These are actually the standards that we need to reach, they're written, they're written, they should now if they're lucky, they should go as far as possible in accordance with what's normized, written and so on. Furthermore, these are the goals that we really need to pursue, and overall activities must go in this direction to make these goals as easy as possible, as painlessly as possible. Because when we observe history, modern history. Because when we look at history, the modern history of these two states, these, these nations, then actually, at first sight, we could find far, far more things, more neural points that would go in this direction to say "so we will not ratify this agreement now and so on." However, when we look at the direction, the determination of the Republic of Croatia to live in a tolerated environment, to live in good neighbourly relations in its environment when it comes to European standards, then it is understandable that our obligation is greater and that by accepting this... I don't really need to question you at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This ratification takes place unfortunately under one pressure from modern events. It has already been said here that people in Novi Sad have formed a congregation of the phantom republic of the Serbian province. Fortunately, the Serb community in Croatia and the Serbian Democratic Party, as well as the authorities in Belgrade, have been fenced out of it. However, it would be good if, first of all, I think the authorities in Belgrade have been fenced around some other things that, for example, make the position of Croats, Croats in Vojvodina more difficult. That's where my colleague Trakostanec mentioned some things. I would, I promised my colleagues from Novi Sad or the Croats from the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina that I would raise some of the questions that they have referred to me here, to present them to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A while ago, the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina sent an open letter, and this open letter was signed by 50 intellectuals and public workers in which they specifically pointed out that the members of the Bunjevacs of the entire Croatian people today are being challenged only in the Republic of Serbia, where former authorities, whose protagonists today are being tried in The Hague for the most difficult forms of human rights violations, have initiated this practice in the early 1990s by politically, materially and culturally supporting the division amongst the local people of Croatia, openly supporting that group, which is out of fear, ignorance, material or political breakthrough, denied membership of the Croatian people, where they were the most prominent amongst themselves and Milosevic's ministers for human rights. In particular, this letter condemns all of those, all the factors which, without any scientific justification, are trying to introduce the schools instead of the Croatian literary language, where we hold particularly inadmissible that state bodies are primarily within the province, the province administration supports such efforts that they aim to divide the Croatian indigenous population in northern Bačka for its easier assimilation. In line with this letter, it is most vigorously asked that the authorities of all levels of Serbia-Montenegro's domestic state cease to encourage the division of the Croatian ethnic community in Vojvodina, including the support of the division of a single literary language that serves the Croatian people everywhere in the world, primarily in the Republic of Croatia and also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is not only scientific and legal but also civilizedly unacceptable to make artificial and linguistic divisions of Croatian peoples in Serbia's territory. In point 2 they also require that the authorities of the Croatian country of origin in particular the relevant ministries and the Croatian Parliament take all measures to protect the indiscretion of the Croatian people and Croatian language in Vojvodina in particular in the world of the announced ratification of the Minority Protection Agreement with Serbia-Montenegro. That's what this letter says, an open letter familiar with the public of Serbia-Montenegro. There's another problem, a colleague of the Trakostanac pointed him out. It is a problem of information in Croatian on Novi Sad television. One semi-hour television show in Croatian in informational, cultural content that has been broadcast twice a month on state television, no longer works in the last six months. She became a serious political problem. Probably, they were at that historic meeting in Belgrade when the agreement was signed to meet Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and our Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. At that time, it was said that these questions would be resolved very quickly. However, this has not been resolved to this day. Four times on TV, Novi Sad has been banned from the show. Three times Divani, I am not going to waste time reading all of this here, but in short: it was the first time in 2000, April 6th because of the alleged statement by a Saturday Franciscan Pater Marijan Kovacevic, who said he believed that the Bunjevci were Croats. And that was the reason to be, to ban that show. There's been a change of schedule. The show was put up late at 11:00 a.m. somewhere, so it was impossible for a large number of people to look at it at that time because it was time to sleep. The second ban was on 9 August 2002 after the presentation of a jubilee "100 years of the existence of the Croatian Cultural... Stjepan Radic's company in Slankamen when there was a event that threatened to disrupt public order and peace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The police intervened. There weren't any bigger excesses, though. The part was broadcast after a week on TV wonderful, however it was prepared, broadcast. After that, there was a rescinding of the show. To mention, it is well mentioned that these contributions, these shows were broadcast in other television private homes around Vojvodina, but were not broadcast on state television. The third ban took place on January 25th 2004, when a contribution was presented where graves and monuments of the Croatian minority community were destroyed. It was one of the reasons why that show would be removed from the agenda again. And the last year was the year when it was agreed to sign a contract on October 1st in Novi Sad TV on a new show whose prodigious would be the news publishing institution Croatia's word. The name of the show was supposed to be "The trail of Croatian". Then how come the contract isn't signed today? No one's showing up on that. Even on the Croatian far-sighted tour, Mr Tijanic was said to have ordered that the show be launched as quickly as possible. That show is not mentioned until today. Here I was obliged to inform my esteemed colleagues and colleagues in this House about this one problem for which I should, which should be solved as soon as possible because the Croatian ethnic community in Vojvodina is organized. She wants to use these rights on the basis of rights, positive rights or legal provisions in the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, and it seems to me that it would be a sign of goodwill for both Serbia and Montenegro to accept, to ratify this agreement if they show good faith and to start the show once again on Novi Sad television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33634	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33635	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, of course, on behalf of the HNS Club and the PGS, this law should be welcomed. The law is certainly the fruit of a development that has occurred especially in the last 5 years in relations between the two countries. And it should be expected that this law will allow that agreement to allow relations between countries, i.e. protection of minorities to be at a higher level than before. It's what it is today, too. And especially since it was someone there a decade ago. Especially when it comes to protecting the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro. In that sense, all this affirmative stuff that my colleagues spoke of in front of me, we also sign on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS. However, it should be warned of some of the tendencies that the representative before me spoke of here. And they didn't exactly find an echo in the statements of colleagues who spoke on behalf of the club. Which I don't think is good. Croatia's minority in Serbia-Montenegro was recognised only in 2002. And it can be said that after attempts at assimilation, the crackdowns that occurred throughout Milosevic's reign during the 1990s were there and the persecution of this was here. Only by the arrival of the new government in 2000 will there be a change in politics. However, after the latest changes in government in Serbia-Montenegro, the process stops. And of course there's something to talk about. I have three letters here in front of me very current letters these days that are written by Croats in Vojvodina. An open letter from a group of prominent Croats 50 such that write to the public, of course, all institutions, sent to Croatian state institutions. I have a letter from the Croatian National Council concerning this illogicality regarding Croatian TV show Novi Sad. And of course I also have a letter from the political party of the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina that talks about these issues. And what it's really about. It is about the arrival of a new government in Serbia-Montenegro at all levels not only halted the process of improving the position of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro but continued the old tendencies of first splitting of Croats of artificial division. And then, of course, easier assimilation of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro, especially in Vojvodina. And it's supported from all levels. This is supported by the level of the central state, regional authorities, and of course local authorities. In fact, it is just a few very striking contributions to the example in this regard. One of the only shows Croatians had on TV Novi Sad was canceled in half of 2004. The show has been gone for almost a year since and since. Because apparently on that show was a hate speech. And that hate speech wasn't really a display of what the Shessels' radicals were doing to the Croats in Vojvodina. It was a hate speech for them. And so for over half a year now, the Croats in Vojvodina haven't had one show that's been going half an hour in two weeks, you can think about what kind of strong representation they're doing, but they were satisfied with that show at least, of course, they should go beyond that. But even the Croats in Vojvodina don't have it anymore. Because there were various administrative obstacles to abolishing it. It's one big thing and it's talking about the climate that's going on today and it's quite the opposite of what's written in this agreement. The agreement speaks of a series of very affirmative positive objectives and so on. However, that fact is actually very clear to deny it. And in particular, I think he's denying the fact that he's speculating about the introduction of rebel language and culture into school programs in Vojvodina. It's something that, of course, is encouraging the cleavage of a national community, a national minority, to facilitate its assimilation. And that is quite the opposite of what is written in all the statutes to which these agreements are called. The same is true of this agreement. Namely, the agreement states that the parties that signed the agreement will thus ensure that the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro are protected from any activity that threatens or threatens their survival. The artificial vaccination of a national community or national minority, in order to facilitate its assimilation, is nothing but a focus against ensuring the survival of that national minority. And it's very clearly indicated in these letters that I was just talking about. Thus, in a letter of the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina, it is very clear that, actively, working on the linguistic duplication of Croatia's minority in Vojvodina, the new state authorities are again working openly on its assimilation and do not respect the obligation to preserve and cherish the national, ethical and linguistic specificities, which directly endangers the survival of the Croatian minority in the area of Northern Bačka. That is what the letter, which the Democratic Union of Croats sent to the public on 27 January 2005, states in a letter. The same is true these days, so after the local elections that took place in Serbia-Montenegro in Subotica, then in a place where this would least be expected in Vojvodina at the initiative of the Seselj Radical Party, the funds allocated for the work of the Bunjevac not Croats are once again enormously increased. It is those rebels who because of their ignorance of manipulation, because of the interest of materialists often agree to be Bunjevci and not Croats. And it is these days that, therefore, the initiative of the administration and the Radical Party in the city of Subotica is taking place with enormous increase in the resources for activities for the work of this particular group. And of course the goal is this one. If it is supported by Shessel's radicals, or initiated, then you know what it is, that the matter is worse accepted by all the other parties in the congregation of the city of Subotica. And that's why that decision was voted. But these are things that are not small, and we actually hear very little in the Croatian public. And that's why they're going to need to closely monitor what's written here in this agreement, or in this law. Which, of course, we welcome back. But if so in Vojvodina where Croats are both politically and culturally organised where they have a developed network, then we cannot expect the situation in Zemun where there is neither political nor cultural organisation of Croats to be better. This situation in Zemun, of course, can be much, much worse. NOT to mention that there is very little talk here in Croatia about those years when Croatians from Srijem were persecuted but not from only Srijem, but from all over Serbia-Montenegro. I happen to have family ties with people who have been exiled. Who today is talking about what circumstances they have been exiled because much bigger accidents have been happening here in Croatia and BiH. But these people have been through their Calvary for the past few years. Who's talking about some kind of their right to come back today? Whether these contracts they made were under duress, whether they were contracts that would protect their property rights, and especially who today speaks of their right to return and whether it is the right at all something that is realistic in today's circumstances. So, there are a lot of issues open and, of course, welcoming all of this well written in this agreement should be warned. The Croatian authorities say very little about this, very little about it in the Croatian public, and therefore it will be good for the Croatian public, the Croatian Parliament, to monitor the achievement of this agreement, of course in that segment of our obligations, to further extend the protection of the rights of the national minorities of Serbs in Croatia. We have reason to be proud of the level we've reached, but of course there's room there to improve it. But of course, it is our special interest to follow exactly the part of the agreement to protect the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro. Minorities that have also passed the Calvary for the past 15 years, which is decimated, or worse. So, that number may even be halved and which, of course, works for historical reasons, for the interests of these people, also needs the protection and support of the country of origin, as it is here, as it says in these documents. Another issue to be specifically mentioned here for representatives of the executive government, which is the issue of obtaining dual citizenship from Croats from Serbia-Montenegro. Often, the Croatian state, of course in order to prevent abuses in this regard, is being placed so bureaucratic that it is almost impossible to get dual citizenship for people who want it, Croats from Serbia-Montenegro, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And these bureaucratic manners of every administration should be removed. I have contacted the Croats from Serbia-Montenegro about this, and I have also informed our committee on these issues, which I have also reported to our respective ministries. But in that sense, too, there should be more hearing than one bureaucracy that does not encourage has in itself. Here, therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, the club of HNS and PGS representatives will closely monitor what is happening in this segment and in terms of, as I said, achieving the rights of the Serb national minority in Croatia, but especially because of these difficulties that I have been talking about, for reasons of concern that exist, which have occurred in the past few years, and this is the first time in 15 years that one trend has gone up. We can talk about the protection of the Serb minority in Croatia in various ways, but it may be difficult to tell someone that some degree reached was at one point questioned. That is exactly what happened in Serbia-Montenegro and therefore our attention to the work of this mixed committee will be particularly focused on monitoring the exercise of those rights guaranteed to Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33636	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 207 of the 17 and 15, time has passed for the 10-minute hearing. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33637	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Well, I'm glad that after the HSS Club and the HNS Club, he had a critical talk about the difficult situation of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. And for this reason, I must tell Mr Mimica, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, Croatian standards in terms of national minority rights are far above the standards in the European Union. If we are doing something in Croatia, we must work in harmony with our Constitution, our constitutional laws and other laws that we have passed and not always say that we must do so for the sake of the European Union. And we also know that the European Union has a lower level of rights, a lower level of standards than in our Constitutional Law on National Minorities and other implementing regulations. And what are all the standards of the European Union, we could also see the case after Tsunami when, say, the Swedishs who opposed our negotiations threw on the coast of Somalia into the sea nuclear waste that had now been thrown out by Tsunami. So it's a two-faced thing. God forbid, therefore, that what the secretary of state says, this is a historic law in terms of implementation, which means primarily implementation by Serbia-Montenegro. Because the current situation is getting worse every day in Vojvodina and Serbia-Montenegro itself. The fact that the Croats won, became a national minority in 2002, speaks enough about all this. The fact that TV shows, whether new Sad, or other TVs where Croats had, are being cut off, that measures are being taken against Croats who speak the truth and who want to protect their rights. It speaks sufficiently of the gravity of the situation and speaks enough about how we express skepticism in the sense of implementing this agreement from Serbia-Montenegro's point of view. Because the very fact of mild or no reaction, say the leadership of Serbia-Montenegro, which allows the organisation and establishment of the so-called "New Sad" in Novi Sad. The phantom government, or some restoration assembly, speaks enough of their weak reaction as they think of the situation of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. And let us not forget the fact that most of the leaders of the current leadership in Serbia-Montenegro were in one way or another directly or indirectly involved in the aggression against Croatia. From the foreign minister to all the presidents, and that made us not so surprised by the reaction of their authorities, their leaders. But we were surprised by the reaction of any Government of the Republic of Croatia. It took three days, we spent three days on radio stations saying there was no reaction from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Only after that, sometime Tuesday, the government called for, or the foreign ministry and European integration of the ambassadors of Serbia-Montenegro to invest a note. And that fact itself speaks of this, namely, far more severe and far better in such a situation, the SDSS reacted. They reacted sharply and responsibly from the Croatian government. Now this is just talking about why we are expressing skepticism in terms of implementing this agreement, because the executive power must be it, meaning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, which will really have to take more decisive measures in terms of protecting and achieving the rights of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. Because let's be aware here it's about so-called. Immaterial rights, and we know it's a big problem and so on. material rights, the issue of exiled Croats either from Vojvodina, or from Serbia from Montenegro, the issue of the right to return them. We know for ourselves that they had to wake up for why, for nothing, give their property or change it to unseen. Therefore, the situation is far more difficult and I am glad to say that even HNS has talked about the difficult situation of Croats. And that is why we expect the government to start fulfilling its constitutional obligation, which is the part that through diplomatic measures is particularly related to this agreement. Now the question is when will it be ratified by Serbia-Montenegro. Okay, here we have given the first step, we are going to the part because we have a normal obligation both constitutional and moral and any other to protect the rights of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. But I am saying, as long as this policy is in Serbia-Montenegro, we ourselves know that the radical party that you must be aware is not in power, it is the strongest party in Serbia, it has openly supported the establishment of this phantom government. We know ourselves that we've seen movies that these representatives of the phantom government have said and what they're saying. Most of them were or have been charged with war crimes, and on the other hand, the executive government did nothing to the part that it sought their extradition, that it was taking legal action through Interpol, through all other situations. And that is why we do not have great confidence that the government will now start to lead a more determined policy in terms of protecting national interests, primarily the interests of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro and we do not have much guarantee that Serbia-Montenegro will suddenly change its policy. Just imagine a situation where, say, in one Germany, it happened that it was founded so-called Some kind of phantom government that wants to take away some of France's territory. So you know what an international reaction that would be, and we can see what a reaction neither by our government nor by Serbia-Montenegro, but the strongest action was the SDSS. Therefore, it says enough that this policy is not in line with the Constitution of Croatia, nor is it in line with our national interests, nor does this policy at this time provide guarantees, we hope that the basis of this agreement will now mean that the executive authority will start to act more responsibly and really protect the interests of Croats. In HSP, we had meetings with Croatian parties whether they are in Montenegro, whether they are in Vojvodina and Serbia, whether they are associations, they are constantly telling us about major problems. Let's say the last time the delegation came, there were Croats from Montenegro, they were not received by the Prime Minister or received by the president of the parliament. They were more than angry. Here's what Mrs. Zdenka Petricevic and others know. The fact itself that neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Parliament has received us speaks enough about how much you care about us. So we change a lot of things inside ourselves, change ourselves. We do what the Constitution tells us, what our laws tell us. Therefore, we as a Croatian party of rights will always advocate that Croatia has what it has in its Constitution, which it has in its laws, which it has taken over according to international contracts must implement. It must be implemented if it wants to be and act as a responsible state, as according to the rule of law, but we ask others not to let our people step outside without us sitting on our hands or that there is no room in our media for the difficult situation of Croats outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33638	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, the issue of realising minority policy is not an appropriate issue, even if the occasion was an agreement of this kind that I hear the secretary of state said he has a historical character and I agree with him, but the issue of the position of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro and the issue of the position of Serbs and Montenegrins in Croatia is not really an appropriate issue. And if we want to take these questions seriously, then I think we should give up the appropriate speech. In doing so, every serious parent policy, if it has a framework for doing so within legal frameworks, does every day especially every parent policy that creates its own policy towards a part of its people outside its own territory in a neighbouring country or another country when it happens after years of war and after years of absence of normal relations with the country in which members of that minority live. So I absolutely understand some colleagues and colleagues when they express significant and great concern for the position of members of the Croatian people in the area of Serbia-Montenegro, but I would like to repeat once again, ladies and gentlemen, that colleague and colleague is really not an appropriate issue. These things should be done every day. Many of the people who raised the issue today of the "Divani" show that was removed from the Vojvodjan TV programme I have not heard in public debates or in contacts, in interstate contacts or with competent institutions when both the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament worked on the issue, and we also representatives of the Serb minority in Croatia. I really haven't heard anyone, and today I've heard very big words about it and in a place where it's spoken in tone as if we're adopting something that shouldn't contribute to changing such situations and such experiences and such negative and unacceptable solutions, but rather, as if we're adopting something that's going to be against it. Well, the world that's looking at us and listening can be asked, so what are these people, what kind of work they're actually doing or the work they're doing to make things better, or that things are going to get worse. In other words, allow me, Mr. Secretary of State, to join your assessment, and for many years an agreement was created on the protection of the rights of members of the Croatian people in Serbia-Montenegro and of Serbs and Montenegrins, members of the Serb and Montenegrin people in the Republic of Croatia. And with really significant efforts, the agreement was ratified, or initialled, firstly agreed with the active action and members of the leading Croatian people's institutions in Serbia-Montenegro and representatives of the Serb community and the Montenegrin community in Croatia. And I vividly remember the statement made by the president of the Croatian National Council of his colleague from his studies here in Zagreb, Mr Ivanovic, who indeed welcomed the paraphrasing of this agreement by his chosen and commendable words. If he thinks it's good for him and if we Serbs and Montenegrins here think it's good for us, I let there be some who think it's not good for us, but let us say it again, that's good for us. It is good that there is a legal agreement framework between the two countries that have had a period of war experience, which had a period of years of non-cooperation and which finally created a framework as expected in the interstate and international frameworks, which is that Croatia can normally help in the legal frameworks of its minority in Serbia-Montenegro and Serbia-Montenegro vice versa towards Serbs and Croats and Montenegrins. But there's something even more important than that help, there's something I've heard only that a few colleagues have mentioned, which is the fact that recognition of the new realities of political, constitutional and all others and all those who rightly look back here today don't now talk about language, but rightly refer to a phantom group of people who restores the story of the congregation and the government so-called. The Serbian provinces in the refugee country should know that this agreement confirms the new realities that we Serbs in Croatia have long accepted, worked to be affirmed by this agreement and other acts and of course, and of course that this agreement and this document is the best indicator that those who speak you are a minority, and we are people not only speak things that are irrelevant but say stupid things. Which, for interstate relations, do not have any relevant weight, but have a weight of natural interference. In this sense, this Agreement has such a character because it shows that Croatia, on the one hand, and Serbia-Montenegro, on the other hand, has signed such an important and significant agreement since the collapse of the common state framework. Many took much more time than it took the Republic of Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro to sign such an agreement. Now, as far as reality is concerned, it is quite certain that when it comes to the position of Croats, as far as I know about him in Serbia-Montenegro that much more should be done to improve him. In a series of questions. Of course, it is not enough just to form a Croatian National Council in accordance with the Law on Minorities there, but also to remove all these dilemmas that have been emerging for years on the issue of relations between Croats and Bunjevac, that such problems as the recognition of rights to their own programme and their own emissions should be eliminated. But let me just have one thing. If we representatives of the Serb community here for this Agreement start talking about all the negative aspects of our own position in Croatia, where would we come from? Of course, I am not saying, I am not taking away the right to talk to anyone about the problem of persecution, refugee or anything else, but I am not going to give myself the right to talk about my refugee mother, I am not going to give myself the right to talk about my brother and his family who are on the run, and I am not going to answer anyone who pulled the team on this painful and difficult question. Because everyone has the right to do so, but they have no right to underestimate this Agreement as a means to resolve these issues. And he has no right to conduct minority policy and care for his own minority in the neighbouring country because it really can't be done conveniently. Neither appropriate speech nor appropriate policy nor appropriate action. If I heard someone in the Serbian Parliament talking on my behalf and protecting the rights of Serbs in Croatia in the way I heard some colleagues and colleagues take away their right because they don't have one. Because it's false custody and they better not worry about it that way. Therefore, I would like to say in the end, if it was accepted by minority, leading institutions and the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and Serbia-Montenegro here, so this is already a very important fact that should not be challenged. If they think it's good for them, and they think it's good. If they think that this is the way and the framework through which they can and need to resolve all their questions and get close to each other, then they need to be given that opportunity and support them in doing so. Do not create a bad atmosphere in relations between states at the moment when a means of good atmosphere is created. And to those who send us Serbs in Croatia a message that we are a minority, and they are a people, I will just say from this pay phone. They are a handful of misery, and we are men who do honest work, for the interests of their country and those who choose us, and who will choose us in the future. It's only a shame that this fist of misery is given more attention to all those who put all their efforts into the interest of their country in these absent days that are not only weeks but months and years of age than they are given to those who are keeping serious business and doing serious work. Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33640	Thank you very much. We have an ID, did I get it right? Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33641	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Pupovac. You said you weren't at your level where you often participate in similar and such discussions heard that the "TV wonderful" show was canceled on Novosel TV. On 14 November 2004, General Director Aleksandar Tijanic said on HTV that he had ordered the show "Trace of Croatian" to be broadcast on TV Novi Sad. The agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the mutual protection of minorities is signed in Belgrade on 15 November 2004. President Svetozar Marovic and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica have made a public promise that the show "The trail of Croatia" will be broadcast. On November 17th 2004, TV Novi Sad filed lawsuits against Dusica Dulic and Zvonimir Perusic for the ban on hate speech and asked for compensation from every 10,000 euros. You must know about it, so it's always said, and I'll say it today, don't ask for what you're not ready to do, for yourself that you're not ready to do to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33642	Unfortunately, there is no business opportunity to correct the correction, but if I can make one remark, it is that I accept Mr. Popovec's tone and intention to give this agreement a positive thought and that certain questions that have burdened us cannot contribute to it. Therefore, to avoid this, and then we will end this debate in the best order and help our people in Serbia-Montenegro and also mutually, therefore, and vice versa to overcome these painful examples of the past in a positive atmosphere, and not to return too much to detail. So, since I don't have any business opportunities, thank you very much. It's Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33643	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I am unusually glad that today we can discuss the already addressed agreement, so I will bring it up, because a lot is said, but I will make a brief introduction to know about it and also about the number of members of the Croatian national minority in Serbia-Montenegro. Based on the latest 2002 census conducted in Serbia-Montenegro, Montenegro was held in October 2003, with a total of 70,000 and 602 Croats living in Serbia. A list was held in Montenegro a year later, some 7000 and 62 Croats live, and in Kosovo, in particular in Janjevo 350, and together with Pristina, the figure is up to 500 Croats. Surely, that number has been reduced since before wartime. 56 thousand and 546 Croats were recorded in Vojvodina, in Belgrade 10 thousand and 381 Croats, in central Serbia 3 thousand 675 Croats. A large number of Croats are believed to be involved in other categories such as Yugoslavs, Bunjevci, undivided, unknown for reasons unknown to all of us well known, that here my colleague Cain would answer him and why. The number of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro especially in Srijem from 1991 to 1995 when 20,000 Croats were expelled from the area, some statistics suggest that about 40,000 Croats were expelled from the area, surely the number of Croatian communities in Serbia-Montenegro has been reduced. However, the signing of an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro, the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in the Republic of Croatia confirm that national minorities represent an integral part of the society and the state in which they live, and that they enrich the country's material spiritual culture as well as contribute to the deepening of friendship, cooperation and better develop good neighbourly relations between the parties to this Agreement. It is always said, often heard I hope that this is not the form of living that Croatian national minorities are bridges between the country of origin and the Croatian national minorities living in European countries. Surely, I am in response to my colleague, Pupovac, once again, I will quote you gentlemen do not ask for what you are not prepared to do alone, so once again about this Agreement. We in the Croatian Parliament have passed the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities. It is absolutely said then that we are an example of a country not in the European Union, outside the European Union, and we are preceding rights, i.e. in the rights and protection of human rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and so be it. It is because of what I have said that as a representative of immigration and immigration and Croats outside the country I often travel and outside the country, I meet constantly with Croats in emigration, with Croats in other countries, with members of Croatian national minorities in the European countries, in hopes that this Agreement will bring what the Croatian national community or indigenous Croatian people in Vojvodina, Boki Kotorska or Serbia-Montenegro deserve to happen, and precisely to colleagues representing national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, however you speak in the Croatian Parliament and seek the rights and protection of human rights, names, words, your mother tongue in the language of your national minority, please also go to your countries to make it happen to the Croatian national minority, in the European countries, then it will happen that we will all raise our hands and for this Agreement here today in front of us. And by then, although my colleagues here have mentioned several times here, I will only say this briefly, and I have already said that in order for the event to take place in the Croatian language on Novosad TV, that I will not repeat what happened these days about this show in Croatian, the competition was called, there were no conditions in the competition that the editor or how the editor called him speaks Croatian with the Croatian language, no one knows when this competition is being opened, and when this competition is going to end and when, and who will get such a job, the conditions are what they are, so I hope that after this signing of the Agreement in one and another parliament, that Croatian national minorities in Serbia and Montenegro will be safer and security means sustainability and survival in that area. However, the open letter has already been said several times here, hoping that this will not happen, that the Croatian national minority, community or indigenous Croatian people in Serbia-Montenegro will have the right to speak their mother tongue. Today, it is said who was born in Serbia-Montenegro is certain that he has not had a chance to speak Croatian so far, they speak the language of the country of origin where they were born, where they were raised it is Serbian, but since the gentlemen of the national minority of Serbia and Montenegro here enjoy those rights which do not have a Croatian national minority in Serbia-Montenegro precisely in the education and education in mother tongue, I hope that you will be the drivers of this rather than that Croatian additional teaching takes place in Kotor and in Tift but in Kotor and Tift within the Croatian Supplemental Training financed by the Ministry of Science and Education, sport of the Republic of Croatia. Let it happen the way that it happened to you already here, the laws that we have brought to the Croatian Parliament. However, I am not going to talk about something that would certainly not contribute to this Agreement if the rights were achieved on one side and the other, so I will mention something. If we are looking for the right to return, the right to property, the protection of human rights, security, speech in mother tongue, education in mother tongue, Croatian citizenship, I have made several statements to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the requirements and long procedure of receiving Croatian citizenship from members of the Croatian people, I hope that this will not happen in the future, but this procedure has not yet been reduced bureaucratically. Agreements do not come true if people live in fear, if the dead are not allowed to rest in peace, if here yesterday in the "Evening List" beaten because of Croatian features in Novi Sad, attacked by the leadership of young people of the age of hockey players in Zagreb. These are all examples that must be indicated in order for what you gentlemen rightly enjoy in the Republic of Croatia to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33644	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33645	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that I will be on the side of those who will support and vote in favour of this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro on the protection of the rights of national minorities and Croats in those countries, and Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. The reason is very simple this Agreement is on the trail of doing good and better, and any such action should be supported and welcomed. I would return to the reasons for this Agreement and I would say that this is the only reason, on our part, I am experiencing it so, that Prime Minister Sanader initiated the signing of the Agreement for a reason to protect the rights of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. The rights of Serbs in Croatia are also protected without this Agreement, by constitutional law and by all those acts already mentioned in the debate. Therefore, it is a bilateral act, and each bilateral act rests on the principle of reciprocity. So in this act, I miss something, and it's deadlines. There is no point in signing an agreement if it will not apply or be delayed indefinitely. So there's no deadline. But this does not mean that this law of reciprocity is then applied to the rights of Serbs in Croatia, because I say this is practically in no negative sense relevant to them, because their rights are guaranteed to the Constitution and the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And that's good, and that's what we have to work on and further perfect them, build them up, so everyone's happy. So that's the thing that's already been mentioned several times in the debate. As Mr. Tomcic said at the level of spiritual rights. And in this agreement, there is no talking about these other material rights, the return of property, etc., which does not mean that these are irrelevant things and they need to be dealt with in the future by other other agreements, but this is an agreement that is good at this content. And in the very text of the agreement, I'd have a few objections that bother me personally, on the linguistic side, and perhaps a meaning. Article 1 states that, among other things, the right to maintain and develop minority education. Somehow that word minority school doesn't suit me, I would recommend it if it can be corrected, from education and education in the national language. Because they're not minority languages, they're national languages. These are national languages that speak minorities in a particular country, where they are not majority people. So in all these articles where such terminology is mentioned, I would pray that if it can be fixed in some way and called in the right way that you would then speak in the right sense of equality and language when we speak. And speaking of languages, I would also ask the Croatian Government in some way, that when it comes to the Croatian language in Serbia-Montenegro, which is spoken by Croats in that country, it is called national, so that it is Croatian, the official Croatian language and that all these attempts to introduce divisions into the Bunjeva, stokavian, Croatian, etc. we do not accept, do not accept and insist on just one term, on, to speak when it comes to language, on Croatian language. However, in order to protect the language of Croatia and to protect it in other countries, we must protect it first in our own country. Because the Croatian language is at risk in Croatia. And that's why I think it's important to point out. And speaking of this agreement, I would like something that is not related to this agreement itself, which I think should be the express attention of the Croatian state, which is the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not minority people there, there are constituent people, and they have no right to their own language. Therefore, I would like to appeal that soon an agreement appears on these benches between Croatia and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss the same topic on the rights of Croats and the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33646	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33647	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. I must admit, it's not easy to talk about a very delicate subject. Hardly, simply against the agreement cannot be, it shows that some things that in the 1990s were not possible that thanks to God in the early 21st century could become possible and that critical mass, political mass in one country and another, could already be signed by such agreements. On the other hand, both as a representative and as a politician and as a citizen, a man must be for this agreement. It is also very good to hear that it was supported by all leading institutions of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro, as well as all institutions of the Serb community and the Montenegrin community in Croatia, which also shows that there is indeed this very responsibility to this one very important issue which each of these two states defines as democratic, as civil, as countries that really want to respect all European standards, especially when it comes to dealing with minority issues, which are in fact every country's legitimate, and this particular relationship with minorities is one of the essential contents of our legislation. But what always causes this kind of thing is one particular skeptic, which is, we don't knowingly lead one parallel life, is it all here, in fact, a paradox. We both know very well what is expected of us, which is the desired behavior. And then these agreements are signed, I say, which should be welcomed. But to life's reality, our reality is much different and much below the level of this agreement. What we have in some and these speeches today in the name of clubs and in the name of individuals is that we are always showing that special sensitivity when it comes to our side, and then we are very sensitive, so we will just as well count all the incidents that happen on some excursions, games and problems that occur from time to time in the adjacent environment, and while on the other hand we don't even make sure that some times this happens in this environment, and that the reactions are, then reactions are like, they're mostly missing, and in some ways they're just going over it, or they're reluctantly making statements just that we're building up or condemning certain phenomena that bother us in this desirable image as others see us. On the other hand, with all the respect of some MPs, I'm always afraid when any political party or institution actually takes the right to represent a particular minority. And as I say, the man of the liberal worldview, the liberal philosophy, the doctorine who, in some way, from that worldview, has been drawn up by this very fact that minority rights, human rights must be taken into account. It still bothers me when someone thinks they have the exclusive right to represent only a certain minority and that no one else has the right to say any critical object of their own. I, as the mayor of one great Croatian city, can say that I am equally fully representing the interests of all citizens regardless of their party and nationality, that I really do not see what kind of citizen, mayor alone or representative of only one, one ethnic community, and not for others, that it is just almost impossible. I just want to talk to you about something from this local level. In those times when it really wasn't easy to open these roads to open communication with Serbs, first and foremost with Vojvodina and the city of Osijek had intensive communication with both Subotic and Novi Sad for a simple reason. One of the reasons was that there is also a large Croatian community living there, which is also from that level, expected from the local level certain messages and determined in those words especially in the 1990s when it was not easy to be a minority in any way that there is indeed someone who takes care of them, and with those symbolic visits, statements, press conferences and attempts to act in the other public or to warn that there are some citizens who do not belong to the majority, but that they are precisely because they do not deserve much right, full attention and already there have been certain misunderstandings because that is why I think that the philosophy of reciprocity is actually one of the Palanic philosophy. I'm not good because someone else is good but I'm good at my habitat, according to my worldview, but that doesn't mean that if someone else in my community in another country is doing something bad that I should do the same way back in my own midst. And that fight is exactly, and ultimately, that indeed no political party, not one individual, must give himself the right to be an exclusive interpreter of his own community's rights. It's a dangerous path, it's a path that leads him to ghettoization, which leads right to this exclusiveity and which is actually then and almost as if he's enjoying what these incidents are because right then only if there are incidents of the situation then he can, then he has room for political action, political melt and then we show up at the time in the function of the protector. I don't think it's a good policy and we're simply all invited and all responsible whenever incidents happen in any environment that we actually react equally and that in this we really see the pure one Kafkian question when it comes to an accident of one man, in fact, that it is at the same time my accident and that as such I need to protect that man's right because it's simply how I can protect my rights. And precisely because of the fact that this agreement does not remain just one declarative act, the act I say is desirable and that shows exactly what I was talking about at the beginning of a high degree of knowledge about that in these areas it cannot behave differently than that certain standards must be respected and that one of these high standards, human standards is exactly the protection of minorities. But on the other hand, let's see that the very principles that exist in this agreement are implemented as soon as possible in reality and that in reality it's not actually being guided then it's saying double politics, this parallel life that on the one hand we have great documents that we're going to have here in addition to paraphrasing and ratifying but on the other hand that we're letting life actually run in a completely different way. And precisely because of the fact that sometimes we can prevent this feeling of frustration that exists with the members of one nation and another, I've come across that it's better somewhere else, and then it's where I don't know the owner's or any other questions, but actually to work on the fact that these principles that we're going to ratify here are being implemented as soon as possible, and that as soon as possible, we're condemning all those attempts that are just on the trail of time from the nineties in one bad way. I am saying in this sense as a member of the Liberal Party, as a representative of this Parliament full, in fact, full support of this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, but also with this little note that we must not only allow this to actually ratify but then allow life to go already and all the incidents that are currently going on we will not count from which sides are happening more or less but we are witnessing that they are actually subject to the rule of law, the subject or institution that is in charge of it, that politics in any way is conducting or that determines how to behave rather than simply that the institutions of the system act autonomously, that any such excess, incidents to punish, and on the other hand, what we do seem to be some kind of kalk which is that under point 4th grade and sources of the necessary means to implement the law do not need to provide additional funds. I think it is absolutely necessary to provide additional resources so that, for both these and these communities, all minority communities in these areas, but also all of our communities living in neighboring countries, I really think we should give them because that way, if we give it, I think we give it double and then we have the same right and ask that they are treated in one equal way as we treat ourselves in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33648	And as the last in an individual debate, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since almost everything is said there is really no need to speak for long I would only put one emphasis on that if something is an agreement and if in many ways that word agreement is an agreement then it is beneficial for both sides and as such I certainly support it. I also support Mr. Pupovac's proposal, which said that this opportunity may not include all details of the problems of the Croatian national minority in Serbia-Montenegro and Serbs in Croatia that are outside this agreement. However, I accept of course that his exposure here is complete. At the same time, however, I hold Mr. Tomcic's exposure very important and it has been addressed by Mr. Bačić when he talks about the rights of ownership and Serbs in Croatia and Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. So property as such cannot be questioned. It can be sold like that, it can be replaced, it can be donated, but it can never be disputed as a right and it can't be replaced by any deadline I don't know... right to property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I repeat this law but also hold very important everything to be done in order to ensure the right of ownership of both national minorities and in Croatia Serbs and Croats in Serbia-Montenegro. So, I am concluding my debate with the support of this agreement but also by looking at all kinds of issues especially of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro, which is not covered and not solved by this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33650	Thank you very much. The State Secretary, Mr Gordan Bakota, will address on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33651	Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs! Well, I'd like to point out that I'd like to separate two questions here. I think you should say that. One thing is, of course, this bilateral relationship between Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro and what has been happening is the unfavorable events surrounding the incident related to the founding phantom assembly in Belgrade. There's the government, I just want to draw attention to a strong statement by the Prime Minister. I would also like to emphasise and remind you of a very strong statement also made by the President of the Croatian Parliament and also by the demarch, who sent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ambassador of Serbia-Montenegro to Zagreb. Also diplomacy certainly does not sit with broken hands when it comes to, what you said about the problems related to the show, the Assistant Minister spoke with the Minister of Human and Minority Rights... I was personally in Subotica on the anniversary of "Croatian Letters", when I publicly exposed those problems as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But out of all these things that continue diplomacy, both the government and the foreign ministry will take great care of should separate the content of this very important. I'm stressing the historic agreement again. Indeed only, not only will national minorities but also a wider society in general benefit from national minorities and especially when we talk about it are also the rights of Croats in Serbia-Montenegro, so they will have to do with cultural, linguistic, religious identity, education, education, media, just to repeat in the end, the issue of non-discrimination, the right to protect against any activity that threatens survival, the issue of national identity and religion, does this not mention enough how much the meaning of this agreement is for everyday life, both the Croatian national minorities in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serbian and Montenegrin national minorities in Croatia. In this regard, I personally think it is a very good circumstance that I see a broad consensus on the fact that it is a deal, a law and a contract to be ratified, and I think it is a matter of re-emphasizing the Christian law, a crucial agreement that will have far-reaching consequences and the overall bilateral relations between Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33652	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33653	Third, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb-Montenegro minority in the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that the law was passed with 101, unanimously with 101 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33654	We're moving to agenda six. Six. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 256 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When setting up the agenda, we accepted an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33655	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Very short, since the law is also very short. It is a law confirming the Treaty on readmission, i.e. the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, which was signed on 28 January 2003. And since Albania is a high-risk country, it is very important to ratify this Treaty and to implement a much more effective policy on illegal migration and residence between the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this Treaty will regulate one very important question, no matter how short this Law is, but the agreement solves this matter in a way common to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33656	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33657	Thank you, Mr. President, Vice President, I apologize. On 8 March 2005, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is against the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee supported the position of the Prime Minister of Croatia and does not object to the proposal for the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure because it considers the law to be of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, after the debate was held, the Committee assessed that the law in question constitutes an element of further promotion,... Cooperation between the two countries, and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, in the text proposed by the Proposer of the Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33658	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33659	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, this problem, or this Law, treats a very serious problem, perhaps which was much more serious up to a few years ago than it is today. So Croatia has made major shifts in terms of preventing illegal migration especially transit through its own area and has also significantly reduced costs in terms of signing such readmission contracts not only with Albania but with a number of countries in the environment, and not only with those in the environment. The issue of this type of contract is very important for a simple reason because as Croatia is in the transit area they have and require great costs in view of persons who find themselves crossing the border illegally, i.e. staying in the Republic of Croatia. I have to say that I don't understand why it took 2 years and 2 months for this Treaty to be ratified because I could now do about one calculation as far as I don't know, Albanians were found in an illegal stay in the Republic of Croatia and how much it cost the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, in fact, as far as I know, Albanians are the most common now, i.e. the highest percentage of legal migrants in the Republic of Croatia, although not from the Republic of Albania, but from Serbia-Montenegro. And the SDP Club will support this Law, with that observation, that since you readmission contracts have several generations of readmission contracts, they are constantly being changed and complemented by immigration and foreign policy, so these contracts must be changed. So, as far as I know there are three or four, I think it is already the fourth generation of these readmission contracts in part and it seems to me that we should now start to think about both the archiving or the spreading and this Treaty with Albania but also a series of other contracts that the Republic of Croatia has signed. Why? Well, for the simple reason that the Schengen border is approaching us, and we hope that it will be almost at the eastern borders of the Republic of Croatia, but first of all, I will take only one example now, and that is, in the past two years since this Treaty was signed, Croatia has also adopted the Asylum Act. For example, the latest generation of these contracts also has that segment in mind. Let's say if nothing else, you should at least consider in some new contract of deadlines because a 15-day deadline to inform someone that someone's citizen is in your area so that he answers you, etc., does not counter and problem if that illegal migrant who entered your area actually asks for azi. Here, therefore, while it should be considered that a whole series of such contracts should therefore be transferred one generation higher, let's say for the last year and especially last year, the Republic of Slovenia has done, therefore, a large part of its readmission contracts have been transferred to what is said to be a higher level. But in general, we can be satisfied with the situation because it seems to me to be somewhere in the late 99s and 2000s we had somewhere near 20,000 illegal migrants, I think it's now settled somewhere at about 4.5 thousand. So, I'm finishing up the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33660	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Josip Vresk, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33661	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, I must say that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support this law. It is not common to talk about such ratifications especially not about readmission ratifications, but I found it appropriate to say a few words about it. Albania seems to me to be one of the last countries so-called. the high risk zone with which the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, concluded a readmission agreement in 2003, and I think it just concluded that the whole of those countries that are at high risk, or a large number of illegal migrants. It seems to me that some other contracts are both completed and in the meantime, but mostly this whole is now rounded up and regardless of the decline in the trend of illegal migration that has been happening lately. I want to say one other thing. We seem to have passed the Asylum Act two years ago, which actually means two things. It is not only that, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled its international obligation to have such a law but that indeed the Republic of Croatia has received one quality law, that the law has been done at the highest level of expertise together with UNHCR experts and that we have a modern asylum law. Another reason is that this Law has actually proved the degree of democratic standards we have and that we can be proud of all the risks that this Law carries. What I want to say is let me be allowed Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, we know that this time already at another location, and this is about Stubic Slatina in Croatia Zagorje trying to build a modern asylum centre. At first, the location was chosen, it seemed to me, Rugvica, and the location gave up. Me and this time I appeal to the government since it deals with three reasons, it's an inadequate location that, whatever or as much as it can find a better location. The location itself is located, the very location in the former military in Stubička Slatina is located in one of the rural most populated areas in the Republic of Croatia. The location is close to the settlement. The location is too large with its surface and, in fact, the asylum center itself will not be able to take advantage of the entire location and the third important reason is that it is a tourist resort and that these two actually, these two, these two contents can hardly go together. None of those people who live there have any phobias. They are well aware that the Republic of Croatia must have such a centre, but people think it is an unacceptable location, so unfortunately this way I have to use the pay phone to appeal once again to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find a better location and to have an asylum centre there. I repeat once again, the HSS Club will support the ratification of this reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33662	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33663	Thank you very much. No, I didn't mean to answer because I said the contract was short, but I would just like to respond to this last comment that doesn't have much to do with this law on ratification of the readmission contract. Because of a subject that is very current and often used in the Croatian public lately, and especially how local elections are going, or how the time of local elections is approaching. Mr. Vresk was in my position in Novo mesto in the mandate of the previous government and he certainly knows how many problems they had, or the former government, with the location of the asylum center. She was in the game and Rugvica, they were in the game and other locations, but the former government failed to solve all the problems that bring a good choice of good location. Whether there was a lack of spatial-planned documentation, whether there was some resistance from the local population or some other or third reason. This government is also facing similar problems and what I can say from here is that we will surely respect the mood and will of the local population and try to locate the asylum-seeking centre in a place where there will be no resistance and, of course, by keeping in mind that we have certain deadlines that we must respect and that we have at our disposal the European Union's funds of EUR 100 000, which we must also spend within a reasonable time. So we will certainly take care of the final decision on the final location of the asylum seekers' centre and we will try at all costs to determine the location where there will be no opposition from the local population living near the larger or smaller centre. We haven't made a final decision yet where this center will be. Otherwise, wherever there's some information about a future location, it's getting pretty rushy, pretty tough, so I'd say rush reactions. We are also taking into account all these moments when making decisions, the decision on the specific location of this centre will be as serious as possible and will try not to cause problems or conflicts with the local environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33664	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. He'll vote later. On Friday, 11.3. at 9.30 p.m. we begin with the 7th item of the agenda – Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on residence tax. I'm closing today's session. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-09-0.u33665	Furthermore, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the acceptance and surrender of persons whose stay is illegal. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I also find that the proposed law was passed with 95 votes for and one abstention.
