ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34001	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored vice presidents, esteemed MPs and MPs. Let me begin by giving a brief review of the Final Proposal of the Law on Distribution, Production, Distribution and Energy. After the first reading and exhaustive discussion, they can say that the basic differences relating to the opening argument of the Law in which a number of observations were raised on the Bill's proposal, this introductory part, and that it was reorganised and consistent with all the observations that were made through the discussion. On the first reading of this proposal, the Law pointed out in a great deal of remarks on this opening part of the proposal, which shows that representatives want to see the state of heat in the Republic of Croatia and, to that end, the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Požar" developed a material titled: Review of the state and possibility of developing the energy sector in the warmth of the Republic of Croatia, which is attached in the attachment to the 1st proposal that you have all received. As regards the very text of the final draft law, the basic difference between this final draft of the law and the draft law following the examination and examination of all objections, opinions and proposals on the proposal for a law is: the concession procedure itself states that the tenderer must meet all the conditions of the tender. It's an article now 16. Final bill. What is important is that automation is left out in the application of heat prices. This is Article 21. The final draft of the law and the provision for the exemption from the thermal system, with the agreement of the distributor, is also limited to the tariffs of heat customers on the common standard of heat energy, and deadlines for granting consent are prescribed. Article 23 Final bill. For the sake of perhaps a more detailed explanation in the old buildings that were built before 1990, the pipes of the thermal system pass through the floors and the heated bodies are connected under the so-called so-called “. ” verticals, not according to ownership. In view of such a schedule, it is impossible to make a more significant investment to fully separate a single apartment from the system because other than apartments and spaces that are on the highest floor, the pipes pass through the apartment and those that will continue to be heated through the pipes passing through their apartment, regardless of what they will be excluded from the system or without the radiator. And this is the reason for seeking the consent of residents because of the specific adjustments to works that must be performed physically and the consent of economic operators carrying out the energy activity of the distribution and supply of heat energy is required. We are aware that this may be a seemingly narrowing of the rights of citizens, but it must not happen that on behalf of one of us we are jeopardizing other citizens, and if all the tenants in some building demand the uniform application of this right to this legal provision to meet so that the same right now is better achieved because so far this right is not regulated by law at all. The solution has also been resolved by the installation process of local thermal energy distribution devices and it is determined that the issues related to the installation are governed by the Regulation on how the distribution and calculation of costs for the supplied heat energy by the minister is carried out. This is Article 33, paragraph 2. Proposed law in first reading, and now this is Article 24. Final bill. More specifically, the status of a privileged heat buyer is defined and the limits of priority under the current final bill can only be determined by law. That was Article 26. Proposal for a Law, and now Article 29. Final bill. In an integrated manner, inspection supervision has been arranged and pre-infringement penalties have been harmonised with the Violation Act, Articles 28 and 29. Proposal for a law, and now these are Articles 31 and 32. Final bill. The deadline for harmonisation of the rules of the units of local self-government was then extended to one year, that is, Article 35. Proposal for a law, and now Article 38. Final bill. All provisions of the Law shall apply on the date of entry into force of the Law. And finally, the text of the bill is nomtechnically harmonised and completed. The basic differences between this final draft of the law and the bill after adoption, as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act was adopted in the meantime and further corrections were made. In accordance with this, the expression of cogenerations from general provisions is deleted, that is, Article 2(2), point 5. The final draft of the law and the provisions on the determination of entities which do not need permission to carry out energy activities, the production of heat energy have been deleted. This is Article 5, paragraph 2. Final bill. Then the differences between this final draft of the law and the bill following the adoption of opinions given by the ministries and the Consumer Association, as specified in the debate on this Final Bill proposal. And a series of changes that have been made. Units of local and regional, regional self-government through their representative body are obliged to ensure that the Office of State Administration in the County, or the administrative body of the city of Zagreb, responsible for energy affairs participates in the development of a document of spatial planning. This is Article 5, paragraph 2. Final bill. Then units, units of local and regional /regional/ self-government through their representative body are obliged to ensure that the Office of State Administration in the county or the administrative body of the city responsible for energy affairs participates in the process of issuing a local permit for construction in which a production facility for the production of thermal energy is located. This is Article 6. Final bill. Then we have a condition for meeting which energy subjects are obliged to give consent to the tariff buyer on a common standard of heat energy to extract from the heat system. This is Article 23, paragraph 2. Final bill. Then the difference is that the more detailed, the prescribed content of the Regulations on the method of distribution and the calculation of costs for the heat supplied. This is Article 24, paragraph 4. Final bill. Then we have a building-determining, building-determining facility that can be connected to an energy facility for the distribution of thermal energy and without a building permit. This is Article 28, paragraph 2. Final bill. And in the end, we have a clearer regulation of conditions for obtaining the status of a privileged buyer. This is Article 29, paragraph 2. Final bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34002	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. He's gone. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Mato Squirt, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I support the adoption of this law that passed the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34004	We've moved on to the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34005	Among other things, we had a report a few months ago on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council, we had a proposal from the National Consumer Protection Programme where it was said that consumers of heat energy should be protected. So just like we have for electricity, gas, water to enable heat users, they're paying for what they really spend and not just flat-rate. Through the data I was able to find in the literature means buildings that are older than the stilt said the secretary of state before 90th of the year where it can't be measured individually means where we have calories at the entrance to the building and where we have heat divisors on each body heater. It also showed meaning in Zagreb on a pilot project that was designed to save citizens large. Especially in objects where there's a little better thermal insulation. So we have an example that if the flat-rate price for the city was 5 kn and 40 per square metre after the installation of calories and heat dividers it fell to 2 kn and 33 limes. So on all of these buildings where the savings were made is between 18% and 28% means an opportunity like the materials say about 20 percent is savings anyway. We are also in a place where we come from in Virovitica with one such pilot project, where calories are installed on three brackets, and now we start this year in hot water drains where, in any case, according to these data we have ahead of us, it will bring savings to citizens especially when winter is as long as this was and where heating costs are higher. And in any case, it's about a great amount of energy savings. I'm glad the secretary of state agreed to come down, so we're talking to people to see what the benefits are not just the energy savings. So this will reflect the pockets of citizens who join. These are the things that require certain costs, but we have one proposal in fact as we did, so it does not go to the consumer directly but from the funds of the reserve made available to people means that everything a man needs to pay to enable him in 6 months to a year. And I think it's good in this law that the distributor is obliged within 2 years of the entry into force of this law to install calories, which will be a model which the minister will later prescribe we will see. There are models of 40-60 or 70-30, meaning the flat-rate part and this variable that will be consumption but I think this law is good and that ultimately I will not only say energy savings but also affect consumer pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34006	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Joseph Leko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State. It is clear that this is one of the laws which is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And it is not disputed in this House or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But the second question is, when does he have to go into effect? When Croatia is capable of applying such a law. First of all, it should be said that all types of energy should be roughly equalised simply so that the inherited historical circumstances do not affect the standard of citizens and energy is energy no matter what source it is. Second, it is very important to stress in this law that the concept of a tariff buyer is not defined as defined in Article 2(2). Final bill. So the proposer himself didn't come to the fact that it's a tariff buyer, so that's why he doesn't define it. That's the point of the law's problem. If known, it is known that the price of thermal energy today does not cover neither the cost of production nor that we have not defined what the tariff buyer is, and if what the State Secretary explained in the opening presentation is connected, Article 23, 24, there is a problem which this law will produce. So Article 23 of the tariff energy purchasers on a common scale of heat energy is now if the applicant could say what a common buyer is, a common criterion, then we would show the public what is out of the check. Here's what's waiting for them. Warm energy will be delivered to buildings, buildings and the consequences will be suffered by citizens mostly poorer, weaker property. Those who have received apartments of solidarity or who have acquired apartments in socialism. They will not have the grace of this law. They'll be solid customers of thermal energy, on a low base. They'll be solid buyers with their tenants in that building. And the rest of the customers will have the privileges of this bill, so they can pay as much as they spend. This is the meaning of the provision of Article 23. Final bill. If this is added that the owner of an apartment in such an facility must obtain the consent of the energy producer and the consent of the tenants of all in the building, then the individual status is given if I say the tariff buyer almost makes it impossible to achieve it. If we add to this the circumstance that the buildings have economic parts of buildings that consume energy increased, then the energy buyers in the apartments will also pay the cost of the economic activity in residential buildings. If there's no separation without consent. And that's the consequence of this law. So, if I don't, two things the law needs to be passed, I think its application should be delayed, not immediately, but let's see when. Perhaps even when it enters the European Union, because solidarity at a broad state level makes sense, it makes sense. The more energy it was today, the warm energy was also a social category. The evidence is that the cost of cost was neither covered nor cost of production. So, to level the prices of all kinds of energy. That would be my proposal to the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34008	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Mr. Representative Mato Smack here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34009	Thank you very much. Well, I'd only look back at this guy where he said the tenants would pay more means the poor tenants would pay more and that this law would not suit them. On the contrary, Mr. Leko, everything that hep heat did means where the analysis was done after the connection. So if it's spent together it's a total calorie, the heat drains are second. It means control of anyone who spends as much. So there won't be any human damage, either way it'll be less. All and one building that was built in Zagreb, meaning where it was built as a pilot project, has been shown to pay less anyway. And what are the costs that will be the installation and that, so I said that a little while ago, there are possibilities for a common reserve where it helps people to pay through the year what they can. But in any case, none of these 15 buildings in Zagreb that are the pilot project showed that people pay more than after installing calories. In any case, 20 percent pay less somewhere, and there's not a single example of paying for the installation of calories and a solvent of heat to pay more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34010	Thank you. Answer Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34011	And, of course, I can't dispute the right to the opinion of my colleagues, but neither has the law been simulated in practice, and the current practice claims, even this bill argues that the cost of energy paid by households and citizens does not cover the costs. I deny it to you first. Secondly, the current situation is the irrational use of thermal energy in buildings, it's a common-known rule. And that solidarity will continue only in buildings, not at the level of units of local self-government or the wider community, which would be logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34012	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34013	The Honorable Vice President and the Honorable Secretary of State. Since we missed the opportunity to speak on behalf of the club, I will in an individual debate state the SDP Club's position. And he's next. So we are prepared as a Club to support this law, provided that the Proposer postpones its application for old buildings until Croatia enters the European Union. This is P.Z.E., therefore, a law harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union and, as such, it is truly in line. However, he did not appreciate the state in which heat-enabled buildings in Croatia are currently located, and it will be very unfavourable for tenants and heat users in old buildings. And it will be more unfavourable as the building is older, i.e. the plants for the delivery of heat in a more wasteful state. Therefore, more significant and greater investments will be needed to ensure the supply of heat as foreseen by this law. It might be best if this law were applied to new buildings or buildings up to 5 years old, currently, or from the day of entry into force, leaving for other buildings a time of adjustment, i.e. to bring them to this state until the moment of entry into the European Union. Therefore, we are not obliged to apply this law to all areas and buildings before Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. And if we agree on that argument, then there is no reason for the legislator to intervene in the text and enable, in particular, older buildings to make more significant investments that would require this law to be applicable. And this law basically speaks of at least three things. First, from the consumer's position that consumers will have a constant, high-quality and secure supply of heat and that they will know or need to know that it is no longer a social category or social measure, which is still in the vast majority of the cities in Croatia today, as well as the social measures and the supply of gas and water and water and treatment fees, right. So, we've done something in the gas area, but the regulatory body hasn't started working yet, so there's still gas in the vast majority of our cities that has a social dimension, water for sure and heat for the same reason. By applying this law, thermal energy becomes an exclusive market category, so there is no longer a possibility of being subsidized directly from the local budget by the price of energy to be charged to citizens. And the price of heat will consist of two parts, one will be the price of the input energy, that is gas, electricity or some alternative source, as bio mass and I don't know what, and the cost of functioning of the concessionaires. So these are the two categories. Since the vast majority of our buildings, especially by the 1990s, were built irrationally, therefore it was not built to manage them market at one point, then these systems within these buildings were made so irrational that they would need huge investments or large investments based on consumers to adapt. And to make it clear to everyone, so any investment that will be necessary to make this law applicable will be transferred to the burden of consumers. So it won't be paid by the government or the city or the county to transfer everything to the consumer. And no matter what we think, no matter what we say the price of heat will rise. You have simulations for some cities. I have a simulation here for a city. The price of heat to apply this law will increase between 26.5% and 38% depending on the condition of the facility, so within the building, which is the state of the hotline leading from the boiler room to that building. Similarly, you have an entire study that speaks of a cogeneration plant for the supply of heat and electricity to the city of Velika Gorica from which you can see that, for example, in Velika Gorica, you have boiler rooms from 73th from 77th, from 78th which in no way can please this law. So they need to either change or have a thorough reconstruction. And all that's going to happen will re-emerge to the consumer. So this law will result in this, and it's a law that so far in these years and a half of the days that we've been discussing will affect our citizens the most possible percentage. So this law will have an increase in heat between 15 and 50, the price of heat between 15 and 50%. The other thing to say is, it won't be heated like this anymore, so there won't be any irrational use, but it'll be heated the way it's normal, so between 18 and 21 and 22%. When, 22 degrees, 22 degrees, excuse me. When you simplify that, then the citizens will say, we pay more and we're less warm. So that's one fact that should be respected as well. What further this law makes, which I do not think is favourable, is that they transfer total responsibility to local self-government units. So local self-government units are responsible for giving concessions, for delivering heat energy, for operating the system. If it even happens that it is not rational for anyone on market basis to establish a company or to come to a concession that individual units of local self-government will issue, the local self-government unit has an obligation to set up its own company, i.e. a company that will deal with the supply of heat energy. So where there will be problems there, these problems will have to be solved by local self-government units, where it is economically profitable, profitable work, there will be a lot of concessionaries and concessionaries will probably solve it. However, this law fully transfers responsibility to a local self-government unit. So the local self-government unit has a obligation to deliver heat energy and to provide security here even in the situation where we are today when INA cannot guarantee the supply of gas that is energy for boilers. So according to this law the city and the municipalities must deliver heat energy, and that whoever has the obligation to deliver gas cannot guarantee it in any way, so this year we were before the gas reduction again. Fortunately, it only happened to industrial plants. An accident for industrial plants, and at one point in the first month, all utility companies were informed that they had to reduce gas consumption by 25% or a reduction of gas and households was announced for the next day. So that's something that's asking whether units of local self-government, if we can give them such a commitment. Or the question arises what will happen, for example, when a concessionary goes bankrupt. Therefore, in the bankruptcy process, the units of local self-government in bankruptcy have a obligation to deliver heat energy, and the concessionary is in bankruptcy, the court of trade must resolve and give, carry out the bankruptcy procedure. So the SDP Club proposes that this law be passed, but that the proposer intervenes with the amendment in such a way that this law begins to apply to new buildings and buildings, for example, not over five years in these deadlines prescribed by law, and that for all others this law is valid from the moment Croatia enters the European Union because we think it takes long enough for all these buildings that have such old boiler rooms, heat pipelines, which have old radiators, pipes and other, to have time to meet consumers with what must be done, to have time and to mean financial resources, investment funds and to enable consumers to be able to pay for these investments that will be necessary to make this law applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34014	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Mato Stimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34015	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that prices will rise and that all costs will fall to the end-user. This law says that a distributor is required within two years to place a calorie in front of the building you said, meaning an older building more than 5 or 10 years that does not have this possibility. So the distributor is obliged to put in a millimeter. At the end of the day there are only heat divisions that go up. So not all costs go to the end of the consumer, but one part, and the larger part is the distributor and says, I don't know where the flat rate is going to collect when all the analysis done on the pilot projects shows that there will be a 20% reduction in colleagues, not a 20% increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34016	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club PGS, the final Mr. Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34017	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You know well that this law came no matter how many problems it solves or not, because if you remember the law that solved the problem of maintaining housing in cities, so also giving in to the concession of maintaining these facilities, it also caused some controversy and did not quite get those who believed it would work. But when a few years pass and things work, clearly always with problems and always with certain exceptions that cannot fit into the law. Here when we look at the state we have, then we actually have one disaster. Apart from the city of Osijek and part of Zagreb throughout the Republic of Croatia, therefore the price paid by the final consumer does not cover the production price. It says in itself what state the equipment that produces heat and what state the distribution network is, and given that the situation is then spoken, then it means the same way that the losses are produced in that network and it will probably take a lot of time and a lot of money to solve this problem and I don't see any other solution except that it pays for the one who spends energy. Everything else is watching, believing in fairies because there is no one else to pay but the consumer. Especially how it's going to work out, because I don't really see this law offering some kind of methodology or technology for that solution. Namely, all those who produce more expensive than sales will find it difficult to go to a concession. Which concessionaire will take under such conditions of care any drive from those mentioned. I don't see it like that. On the other hand, you know, all these concessionaries and all that privatisation about a kind of communal system, it has to be very profitable and safe money that these people are going to collect to make things work, so it's not going to work. In addition to what's listed, these cities that are listed here, you have a number of buildings, buildings, you have a series of neighborhoods in other cities. Let's say I know in the town of Split, you have two big neighborhoods per few thousand people, and several independent objects that have also been solved on the basis of a boiler room where practically nothing works. This year, I think people only got heat halfway through December. And believe that this is going to be a lot of trouble, it's probably going to be part of the cost at least as a credit trap on local communities, so self-government, and we'll have when this law is adopted regardless of what it's a good basis, many objections and probably many problems on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34018	Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want it to be final?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34019	From all the remarks I've heard, it practically confirms what was the intensity of the legislators of this law, means that order is being introduced into this area and that in the future it means to enable the secure supply of this type of energy. Because I'm going to repeat that old floscule again, the most expensive energy is practically the one that doesn't have, and the current state that's in this space, practically in the near future, can lead us right to this segment, as counterpart Marasovic has now confirmed, that everything is falling apart practically and no one is investing in it. So somebody's got to start worrying 'cause it's gonna be too late if it runs out for a part of the year. And as far as the promoter is concerned, I think that at least that foundation has been hit, and during the application as is the case with all the laws, it will practically be done to improve and repair the goal of providing citizens with this type of energy as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34020	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34021	Final proposal of the Law on production, distribution and supply of thermal energy. The debate on the text is over. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee have been accepted by the applicant and become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that with 82 votes for, 11 abstentions and 4 against the adoption of the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34022	We move on to - Proposed law on courts, first reading of P.Z. No. 257. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Madam Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt please. Please excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34023	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bebic, Madam Minister, it may be possible to consider uniting this point and the next point on judicial change, on amendments to the Law on the Judgment Council, these are very close matter, and for rationality and understanding of matter, I think that my proposal, or a more modest initiative, might be accepted. I hope I didn't bring you Mr. Chairman into some difficult doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34024	No, thank you very much for that proposal. We've been thinking about it. I've consulted the President of the Parliament, and he doesn't think there's much ground to join these two points. Thank you very much, the initiative is always to join the good. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34025	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. You are facing a new draft law on courts, as one of the main priorities of judicial reform is to create an effective and effective judicial system. We have often repeated in the past year that judicial reform requires not only investment in buildings and equipment but investing in people and in the system of governance. And of course every reform goes or goes and falls on the human factor. In order to manage a system of over 300 courts well, a good management system needs to be established. Last year, too, the Ministry of Justice used intensively the measures already provided by the current Law on Courts, which had not been used to a sufficient extent for the past 10 years. It should not be reminded of the numerous oversights, the administrative oversights that the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with senior courts in the past year have benefited and we have warned of shortcomings in the work of the judicial administration, many of the courts have improved their work but some of these controls where irregularities cannot be removed have resulted in the resolution of responsible persons. However, in order for administrative supervision to have full effect, it was necessary to make new amendments to the Law on Courts, and you will see that in this Bill we introduce judicial inspectors who would continuously monitor the control programme as well as in cases of ad hoc surveillance against observed irregularities in the work of the judicial administration. Judicial inspectors have some other European countries such as France, the Netherlands and Spain. Furthermore, the next trend in all European countries is that from administrative affairs and the resolution of less complex cases, judges are relieved, and the work is done by judicial advisers last year, we increased the powers of court advisers and increased their number. And let me point out how exactly this measure, along with the other measures that we've taken, has significantly affected the increase in the number of cases solved in the past year. The number of cases solved in the last year increased by 24% more if we know that judicial advisors worked the most on litigation cases the result of this measure is better because in the last year, for the first time, more were recorded than the cases received. This reduces the backlog in unsolved litigation cases by 7%, and this bill, which is before you, will further increase the powers of the court advisers. At the end of last year we also informed the clubs of representatives of the Croatian Parliament about the measures of the Ministry of Justice in the past year, so let me show just one more of these measures, such as increasing the powers of the number of judicial advisers, allowing the concessions of cases from the less-loaded courts, temporary references to judges to work from lower courts, increased infrastructure investments especially in Zagreb and Split where quality solutions are sought and considered, intensively working on informing courts, establishing legal files and enabling access to judges through the Internet, and a judicial academy and regional centres for education were established, and here is the adoption of these amendments to the Law on Courts, attending a judicial academy will become a condition for progress in the judicial career. We had full agreement on all these measures, and I must say both the courts and the judicial professions that have fully engaged in the implementation of the reform and thank them this time. Especially good results are obtained at solving litigation and criminal cases, land-booking cases and still remains a problem of starting to solve unsolved executives with which we will seriously tackle this year, as well as amendments and additions to the Executive Act will soon be at your benches. What to say about this Law on Courts, the applicable Law on Courts was adopted in 93 and so far has been amended and completed 9 times, and given the large number of amendments and additions to this Act, the need for the adoption of a new Law on Courts that will introduce a series of newspapers into the Law but will also retain the legal solutions from the current Law. This Law, which is proposed, seeks to determine the content governing the establishment, the detour and the actual jurisdiction of the courts unless it is determined by other law, the internal structure of the courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the rights and duties of the judges, the conditions for the appointment of the President of the Court, the judges and the protection of the persons and property of the judicial authorities. The provisions so far on the conditions for the appointment of judges will be particularly regulated by the State Judicial Council Act, which is also before you. It is explicitly prescribed to divide courts into regular and specialised courts, and the possibility to set up courts for individual legal areas is prescribed. The position of the Supreme Court of Croatia as the highest court in Croatia is normally set up. Respecting Article 6 The European Convention on Human Rights and Article 29 of the Constitution of Croatia in order to protect the interests of the parties and to achieve the principle of trial within a reasonable period of time, is specified by a provision which evenly burdens all courts in the Republic of Croatia so that certain cases can be given to another court of the same jurisdiction. In the fulfillment of this principle, the Supreme Court adopted a solution last year that has brought more than 23,000 cases of concession from courts that are burdened on courts with fewer cases and has accelerated their resolution. In order to improve citizens' access and to improve the efficiency of the work of courts, as I have said, the possibility of establishing permanent services outside the court area as well as maintaining the days of judgment is envisaged. It also provides for the possibility for specific departments of information and monitoring of case law to be established in courts. The need to open courts to the public because of the courts themselves. But also because of the legitimate public interest in the work of the courts in all its aspects, it makes it necessary to determine the possibility that the courts have spokesmen. And that is the only way to ensure proper and complete public information that will not be left to the often superficial and unprofessional comments. A newspaper has been introduced that the presidents of the courts are members of the judicial councils on the grounds that the presidents of the courts are responsible for the work of the court and must express their views, i.e. have a certain impact on the proposal of the candidate for judge. For the sake of uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens, a new legal institute is introduced, which is given the possibility where courts of the second degree make different decisions on the same fact and legal matter and is not allowed an extraordinary legal remedy, the party may request the Supreme Court to examine whether such decisions are at risk of uniform application of the law. This provision lays down the conduct of the Supreme Court of Croatia on this request and in order to achieve their constitutional role in ensuring uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. It was introduced, as I already said in the introduction, by a judicial inspection to oversee the judicial administration by courts. Which inspection will either be carried out by senior administrative advisors or judges assigned to work at the Ministry of Justice, and during that time their judicial duty shall rest. What will be the jurisdiction of the judicial inspector? He will surely be able to ask why an object has not been taken into operation for several years or why more than six months have passed from one hearing to another. Or he'll ask, he'll be able to ask why the court expert didn't file a request within which time, the opinion and the finding in which he was to submit it. The only thing he won't be allowed to ask the judge why he made the decision he made, is that it practically penetrates the independence of the judge and his work. In particular, newspapers related to data on the property of judges have been introduced. Judges should teach property cards at the time of entry into office as well as upon termination of their duties as judge. Judges are required to submit a report to the Ministry of Justice within 30 days of entry into service on their assets, on permanent incomes, and on the property of their spouse and underage children. The criteria for assessing the work of judges, which should be based on objective criteria, and the assessment of judicial work should also be taken into account when progressing in the judicial career. In particular, the duty of the judge for continuous training and participation in education and improvement of the framework of the judicial academy, as well as in other forms of professional training, is highlighted. So professional training was taken as an obligation. The role and authority of the court's advisors was extended in such a way as to have the powers to act in criminal proceedings, i.e. conduct procedures on proposals for issuing criminal orders. And it also determines who can be accepted as a court counselor and senior court advisor. The conditions for the admission of court advisers to courts are facilitated, as practice has shown that several courts are unable to obtain judicial advisers from the ranks of the best and proven court practitioners in several courts due to strict formal conditions. The paper was also introduced that the proposal to provide the resources needed for the work of the court for the next calendar year was submitted by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, together with the President of the Court, depending on the needs of the court and the results of the work, determined the resources necessary for the work of the court in the coming year. Here are the main amendments to the Court Act. The Law of Law also follows us, which will also experience changes in this sense as well. And we think that this way by adopting this Law on Courts, we will significantly increase the efficiency of our judicial system. The more the Law on the Courts, which lies before you, the proposal for a Law on Courts before you will be the basis on which to rest the strategy of judicial reform that we intend to complete somewhere in May and to give you an insight already in June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34026	Thank you, Minister. The Legislative Committee. The Justice Committee. Dear President Rade Ivas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34027	Mr. President, Madam Minister. At the 22nd session held on 9 March 2005, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Courts, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by its act of 17 February 2005. The Committee shall be based on the powers laid down in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed in the proposal of the Law as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the president pointed out the urgent need for the adoption of a new Law on Courts, given the large number of amendments and additions to the Law, the proposal sets out the content of the law, the actual jurisdiction of the courts, the possibility of establishing permanent services outside the court, the Presidents of the Court of Justice are members of the Judicial Council according to the position, the provisions in the internal structure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia are discussed, and a judicial inspection is introduced. The paper is data on the judge's property, the judge's assessment criteria are being developed. The powers of judicial advisors and others have been extended. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the Bill's proposal with certain objections and proposals of principle nature, as well as comments and proposals on certain provisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the opinion of the members of the Committee that the conditions for the appointment of the President of the Court's office should be laid down in the Law on Courts, should not be transposed into the Law on the State Judicial Council. The provisions of the bill require the harmonisation of the statement of the justice minister, the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. In addition to Article 7. The proposal for the Law is a false argument, such reasoning can be applied to litigation but also to criminal proceedings. In the light of Article 8 of the Law, it states that the provisions on the immunity of judges are in line with constitutional provisions, since it is not a matter of harmonisation of the provision, but of narrowing down immunity in relation to the existing Article 9. The law on courts must provide an answer to why immunity is narrowed down. Article 13 The proposal is prescribed that in the Republic of Croatia the judicial authority is performed by regular, specialised courts, and that courts fall into regular courts, which belong to specialised courts. The proposed provision does not show which category of judicial authority is the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Article 16 The proposal for a demarcation and jurisdiction should be governed by the jurisdiction of the courts in such a way as to avoid the specific emphasis of procedural laws at the time of their adoption and in accordance with the Decision of Article 16 of the necessary Articles 18, 19 and 20 of the words "in addition to jurisdiction" shall be replaced by the appropriate words. Article 73 The proposal has been given the authority of the President of the Court to initiate a strict case against judges, who... act on a judicial duty or do not make a specific number of decisions. It is also proposed that the same article regulates and initiates a tight procedure against the President of the Court when he misbehaves his duties. Article 77 provides for three evaluations of the conduct of the judicial duties. The Committee considers that this should be completed with one more assessment. This Regulation shall enter The proposal sets out that the President of the Court is appointed by the minister of justice among the candidates who are proposing the Judicial Council. In this regard, the question was raised at the session whether the Justice Minister could appoint a candidate not proposed by the Judicial Council. As the answer was negative, and in practice the appointment of a contrary opinion of the Judicial Council, it is suggested that solutions to which the President of the Court would appoint a justice minister from among candidates who meet the legal requirements. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: First. The draft law on courts is hereby adopted. Second. Any objections, proposals and opinions raised in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Courts will be directed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider them when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34028	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34029	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and fellow MPs, I'm going to make a little joke, perhaps, if there were no justice, we'd be the most hated, most hated, most hated category of persons in the Croatian public. Unfortunately, and for us perhaps fortunately, the judiciary is seriously competing, and even in many polls, it is worse than we are. What's the reason? The reason is certainly not only in the vast number of cases which have not been solved but also because our judiciary unfortunately does not meet the criteria set out by the late Professor Triva, a great lawyer, who says that justice except what has to be just, must look that way, it must look that way for citizens to believe in the authority of the judiciary. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us, except for a number of cases in these big cases that may be related to organised crime, to major trade disputes, and so where some messages cannot be explained rationally, then of course there are various doubts. One of the basic characteristics that I would like to point out for our judiciary is unfortunately one form of autism and undetectableness, one insensitivity to citizens' problems because unfortunately our judiciary is dead cold, some cases lead to 20 or more years without respecting that human fate is behind it and that some citizens spend their entire lifetime without solving some of their fundamental problems. Here's what I'd like to say in this law. Otherwise, I must say, I highly appreciate the efforts that Minister Skare-Ozbolt is making in an effort to make things better, and there really is a measure that has positively affected. However, I do not think there is a minister or minister who, in the current circumstances, can dramatically change the situation in the judiciary. Why? Because the system has been so set up since the time there was about 93, 94, when the judiciary experienced a variety of shocks and when a significant number of quality personnel left the judiciary and I don't think it's been well enough since then. It also happened that in a situation where he suffers numerous criticisms, justified criticism of the citizens of the judiciary always finds the culprit elsewhere. I agree, the culprits are both in politics and in some other segments of society, but there is no reform without the judiciary conscious of those problems that exist in the judiciary itself and that much more actively than it is now participating in solving the problem. One word in person, and I mean the SDP club, they don't advocate surgery as a way of solving the problem in the judiciary, but neither does aspirin, I think the antibiotic to express myself in the medical dictionary would be more appropriate. Unfortunately, this Law on Courts that we have here is not in principle a bad law, but it does not seem to me to have some decisive news despite the fact that the minister has highlighted certain shifts that are likely to help but not well enough to meet this expectation of dramatic change in the judiciary. In addition, the Law was written, I suppose, by judges may have written it but it in a nomotechnical sense is not particularly, especially a valuable contribution. And here's what I'm going to try to do. Maybe I'm going to do a little bit of pointing out these problematic provisions or those provisions that I don't think they're all cracked up to the end and that might be better. First of all, there are some principled positions that are a question of the right to play, I assume that these statements are being sent to the minister or to the minister of justice, or to the presidents of the courts, but let's say that we can conclude that. Furthermore, we have a provision in Article 6 concerning the prohibition of influence on decision-making. I absolutely agree with that, but I would be very careful and I hope that a measure will be found, unfortunately in the KZ we have not been happily hit there, I think that it is a provision of the KZ that actually sanctions criticism as a force of justice is not the happiest and that perhaps even in this Law it might consider some extent. Furthermore, there is a provision, it is in two places that are referred to the official secret. Personally, I think that the secrecy of saying so under quotes should be wider, so not only what is the official secret, but I don't think judges and persons involved in the trial should at all be in public unless it's part of public reporting on the work of the judiciary to convince their cases. I think it would have a negative impact and a negative impact on the image of the judges, and perhaps one provision that would say that judges should not comment on their cases beyond those provisions, provisions relating to public reporting, so that the matter should still be stopped. Of course, the Justice Committee has noticed that the Supreme Court is not defined as a regular court, maybe it's also a nomotechnical mistake, I don't think there's really anything wrong with that. As other regular courts will be set up, I don't know, I think that as some kind of organic law, the Law on Courts should be the only place for the establishment of regular courts and, of course, for specialised courts, I can imagine that they are set up by a special law. We have a provision, and some new terms are being introduced, and it's a shame that they're not, they're not respecting these nomotechnical rules to mark the items with those numbers in the brackets and all the ones in the orderly laws. There are some reps, and there are some reps that aren't, they're not good. However, there are also some principle issues, it seems, some times, as if different provisions had been written by different individuals. Let's say you have a provision on the jurisdiction of municipal courts for the trial of military personnel where it is said that special councils will be established in municipal courts, whether it is very likable or not, I personally do not, but if it is so, and why not set up a special council in the county court. My second question when defining the responsibilities of municipal courts' military personnel is then said to be criminal acts in the service or in relation to the service in the Armed Forces, while in the county courts only in the service, why not in connection, therefore, is not uniform, uniform, style of expression. Furthermore, in Article 20, paragraph 1, point 5, I find it a little difficult to manage,... point 5 is talked about the performance, the competence to carry out decisions and it is said that, that those courts carry out the implementation of decisions they made in the first instance, which is not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are also responsible for making decisions that he, for example, made in the second degree of a higher court when he revised the first-degree decision. So that's something that just isn't right from the point of view of the profession. Then we have at the High Criminal Court a provision that, which would seem to me to be mistakenly telling me, is probably thought that the High Court of Violents solves jurisdiction between criminal courts. The Law on Infringements and in the current, current diction speaks of the jurisdiction of the High Court for the resolution and, the conflict of jurisdiction between criminal courts and administrative bodies and criminal courts, and in particular it is not good because it is here, it is said that it resolves jurisdiction between courts. So you'd say everything, and then you get to the Supreme Court who should fundamentally be there talking only when he's... Special law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe a little, a little bit to keep an eye on you, at that dictation. I think it's good, that it's good to have surveillance and that there's been increased inspection and there's been an inspection. There are some again, some of it seems to me to be a bit of a nomotechnical awkwardness. Article 26 states that the supervised judge will see the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the High Court without delay. No, I don't. When they report, it's the president of their court who's been reporting them, not directly more. So it's obviously one technical, technical mistake. Furthermore, Article 27 states that the affairs of the judicial administration shall include the enforcement of criminal sanctions when they are not placed in the jurisdiction of judges or the handling of detainees. It is in the jurisdiction of most of the Ministry of Justice and you later stated that it is in, at the Ministry of Justice. Then you have, you have implications in Article 33 you tried and I think it's good where it started to see how to even court practice. However, I am afraid that you are particularly implicated in paragraph 33, 2, 3.4 said that the principles of the lower court department are also mandatory for both first-degree judges and I fear that this would not be in line with the constitutional principle of judicial independence in relation to first-degree judges there is a second-degree evaluation of their work and so on. I don't think the obligation of a first-degree judge would be, you shouldn't be stationed, and you shouldn't be implicated. In Article 37, the composition of the judicial councils is prescribed, and it seems to me that there has been a lack of precision again, because it would appear in every judicial council of persons, these presidents referred to in paragraph 1 and I do not think that this was an idea, I see from these other provisions below, and that there should be... I have to admit that I couldn't come to some of these summations, but I tell the lawyers bad numbers, maybe it's my fault, look, see if that's quite the way it is. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] There are, there are others, there are other problems. We're talking about the affairs of the Judicial Council in the jurisdiction of the courts. It's a matter of jurisdiction... It is not up to the Judicial Council to decide anything from the jurisdiction of the courts but to have their own powers concerning the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore very interesting in the situation where the judiciary strongly insists on its independence from the executive and judicial authorities that the Supreme Court wants to use buildings and facilities of the government and the Republic of Croatia protocol, but this is a small perhaps bad, bad note. This is Article 49, paragraph 1, 2,3,4, 5. And now I think that what's really important and maybe that's the most important news in the law that would be a shame to keep it unsaid. The term is this new quasi with an extraordinary legal remedy in Article 57. It is therefore that the party submits the legal remedy and the deadline. Now I'm asking you. When you look at the last, last item, and when you see that the legal remedy cannot have any effect on the subject of that party who has filed the legal remedy. Why? Because her decision is a powerful one. This shall be shown in paragraph 1. And why would she... That legal remedy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So she endures this quasi extraordinary legal remedy, and it's actually, it has an effect on future decisions. And I'm afraid the parties will be underly motivated to submit this legal remedy when on their subject it according to this dictation at least as it is said has no, no influence whatsoever. Of the others there are I say there are others, others like this many nomotechnic incompetences. For example, Article 61 states that the tasks of supervision of the proper conduct of the operations referred to in Articles 60 and 27 are good, but this Article 27 is very good, but be careful in Article 60 is about the tasks carried out in the Ministry itself. Do you really think there will be inspectors in the Ministry who will then only be controlled by the Ministry? I don't believe that's what you wanted, right? Furthermore, something I think is enough, quite a large cancer of our judiciary's wounds. It's an education. Our judges are being educated or needed. This is where it's now cited as a commitment, as it won't advance, but it's not just a problem of progress. The problem is, because of their overcrowding, because of our hyperactivity, we change laws at any moment, but sometimes because of their laziness. They can't even do their current job in court where they're doing well because they're not educated enough. I think that we should look at it a little bit towards the medics and pharmacists, and even condition even for a permanent judicial post preparedness and the need to be constantly educated. Many countries have these, have those points as our doctors and who does not meet the points of education cannot continue to do their work. In the election of the President of the Court, I think it's the best example of our sad situation and, unfortunately, the minister or minister is more, less reduced to the judicial agenda, which I don't think is good. I would personally support a higher, larger, stronger position of the minister or minister than to, not to the trial but to the organisation of the judiciary, and there is one illogicality because it is said that, at one point in Article 106, to propose to the Minister of Justice, does he propose or determine? It is unclear which list the minister can choose from, choose the president of the court. But there are many more and many others, time has expired, very much, very much seems to me these nomotechnical irregularities. Some times, perhaps compared to other courts, other laws, the question of whether it is always necessary to refer in the way it was done. Unfortunately, here are all the other things that might be supported I can say that the SDP Club supports the Ministry in all the activities that go towards strengthening the judiciary and its efficiency, but unfortunately this Law does seem to do what I told Aspirin and when we see what it will look like in the second reading then we will decide whether we will support it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34030	Thank you very much. SDSS club. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34031	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say three things here: the first thing that I found here is what it has and what I find nice and what it would be, which I'd be happy to support. It's the right to play for stalling. It's this permanent service outside the court and so on. the days of judgment and the information of the public and these provisions relating to the inspection of the work of the court. It's something I think is some kind of possibility of a valve to both deal and deal within the judiciary advanced. Of course I very much respect what Mr. Josipovic said just before here one thing is norm another thing is practice. Now there's something in the law that I want to point out specifically. In the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, Ms. Minister, Article 7 is guaranteed the right to be represented, among other things, by judicial authorities. Furthermore, Article 22 of the Constitutional Law also states that these representations will therefore be ensured in accordance with the provisions of the special law, taking into account the criteria and if further specified in the constitutional law. This is about a special law, the constitutional law states that this should be settled here because I don't know where else. And there's a place to go. Whatever it is that I just said here, there's something we're going to support it for, here when it's not there or until we can support this law. I'm going to say one thing that's about this story, or what's written in the law, I'm going to say here the third thing that speaks of practice or which speaks of the present state of justice I would almost fully or entirely join this which is the honorable Dr. Josipovic just said here. I'll tell you two illustrations, and I'll draw one or two conclusions from that. Of course, I don't want my illustrations to affect any procedure within the judiciary, but I know your cases and names and names in which you should intervened in a constitutional lawsuit as you say in a reasonable period of time. So when it's been three years and the court hasn't solved anything, then you can file a constitutional suit and I know again examples of where the Constitutional Court decided quite quickly. And the lower-ranking courts then made some decisions. We can talk about whether it's complicated or not, but I know that three years have been spent, three years and five months for something that's complete procedure and something I can't understand but to say that it's been dragged somewhere in drawers. A relationship in a judiciary where the highest instance is to be sought in order, for example, to settle a pension suit in a administrative court, and then it was finally resolved in a way that the Administrative Court annulled a second-degree solution. And confessed to his wife's right to retire. And it's been three and a half years when a person has nothing to live on. Unfortunately, it seems to me that these are not lonely cases and that it is so much, that according to the practice and the state of justice and the way that it is treated in the judiciary, and it solves I think it can be called worrying. I know that inside, therefore, when we talk about the efficiency of the judiciary and when we talk about seriousness then it is clear that there is also a social atmosphere in which courts will have their own integration, in which we will support the integrity of judges but of course there must be some sort of responsibility behind it, both for the speed of action and for their decisions. I'll tell you here another illustration concerning which I will call responsibility for one decision. The Court of First Instance and the Court of First Instance decided that one person must pay compensation to another person who used her house and invested something inside without any permission from the owner and without reason, the court ruled that the owner had to pay the fee. The final result is that someone will sell the house, even the stage of the performance in this regard. The final result is that someone will sell the owner's house in order to settle down the person who is looking for an investment fee. I don't choose here now whether it's right or wrong, it has to be on that judge's conscience. But there's something, so now it's in the audit, now it's in other procedures, we'll see what happens in the end. It seems to me that this illustration I have yet, shows that people do not express enough personal and judicial integrity to cut somewhere where it is just. That's why I'm going to support it, or we're going to support this law at the club on this condition that what the constitutional law dictates enters it. Noting that whatever law we pass here won't inaugurate a better bang and integrity of courts and greater justice if we don't all together create a social atmosphere that goes that way. I very much hope that in the follow-up to this story, given that it is working in the first reading, that we will get a better law of nomo-technical and that some of these problems that I have listed here and through this law may be improved in the coming time. I hope not that long. I've had some technical remarks here, but you wouldn't be wasting your time on it right now. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34032	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34033	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Madam Minister. I think it's a good thing this law is passed in a regular procedure. It's because it's a very important law like the justice system itself. Because if this law were passed in an emergency procedure, it would already be visible if it had been done with a lot of creamyness. In Article 152, the basic National Journal was left out, which is number 3 from 94, where the Law on Courts was published so that, for example, we could legally bring this right now. If there was no foundation, only changes and additions would cease to apply. We are normally for this version that all important laws, especially in this area of the judiciary, are brought in a regular procedure, a procedure. So you could fix the solutions that are content. And otherwise, we have a lot of suggestions and objections to these solutions that are now contained. The truth should be told here there are no revolutionary and important changes to the functioning of the justice system itself in Croatia, and we know for ourselves how we function the judicial authority is the matter clear, it does not work in a satisfactory way either in the interest and function of Croatian citizens. And that's the biggest problem and it's obvious that neither for the former authorities nor for these so far has this important step taken in terms of the functioning of the judiciary, the judiciary in general. And we'll also see about the other law that we have changes and additions. And it's also a big problem, namely the law of "joint vessels". If we don't have a state administration, we don't have a rule of law, then this version that's now present is going to be buried more and more. They'll be all buried up, the truth of the will they try, they work, it's more efficient than it was. But they, day by day, are increasing the number of cases, and is increasing as a result of the lack of functioning of the rule of law, the non-function of the state administration and the non-implementation of the law as they were passed. Yes’, as long as we do not start law enforcement in Croatia, so be they and the bad ones, we will not do much order on this system. Is it better to implement a bad law than not to implement anything, because if the bad law is implemented by amendments and supplements are removed from what is badly contained, but then, by one move, the amendments to the law can react and the situation in this area can be improved in the interest and function of Croatian citizens. And there's this biggest problem right now, and that's why I always say, we don't have to do anything to get in touch with each other, to do something for the European Union, we need to do it first and foremost for the sake of Croatian citizens, because we're a legal state, we have our own Constitution, so whatever we do, and this is the important thing. Let us not do this, nor let us fight corruption because of what the European Union is looking for or what it is or what it is doing, we are doing it primarily in the function of Croatian citizens. As far as the text of the law itself is concerned, I will later, on behalf of the Club, make other remarks and suggestions. It's important here to say what is a particular problem for us, for the club of HSP. Namely, this law introduces an Anglo-Saxon law to a small door into the Croatian judicial system. This is especially true in Articles 33 and 57, in a much more solid version than the English have. And that's the obligation of a court of law, or of a council. In England, we know ourselves that such an obligation is not hard. And we here mean we're introducing something into our legal system of solutions from Anglo-Saxon but it's a lot in a hard way. So the hard way in that variant that legal practice, means understanding becomes a mandatory part of law, and we know that they are not necessarily part of law in terms of application. So that's why we suggest that we really consider whether these solutions should be introduced so hard from the Anglo-Saxon legal system, especially the English part, because they don't have a solid variant either. Secondly, we normally support this part of strengthening the role of the Supreme Court, mainly in cases of the same factual or legal basis. We also support judicial inspectors related to older cases, the need to evaluate judges also related to judicial advisers. Okay, the important newspaper in all of this, uniforms are being introduced, and nobody has said it yet, but uniforms are being introduced, and that's the part, we just don't know who's going to do them, is it already agreed or it's going to be according to the competition and by law, which also means the important thing to us. Now, as far as the orders themselves are concerned, I will not repeat the parts spoken by Mr Josipovic on behalf of the SDP Club. I think we should specifically refer to the provisions of Articles 90 to 92. In this regard, it is stated in Article 90 that a judge must not perform a lawyer's or public record service or the work of a member of a management and supervisory board of a company or of another legal person established for the purpose of obtaining profits. However, there is inaccuracy because a judge under this Article 2 of Article 90(2) could be in the administrative body of a legal person or an institution which is not profitable. But that doesn't mean she can be de jure non-profit, and on the other hand de facto be profitable. So I don't think that's a good solution for us either, so this item should be complemented. Also related to property cards, that is Article 90(1), judges are required to submit a report on their assets within 30 days of their entry into office. And now there's a difference, and then she says eventually, after she's out of duty. That's not good. Because someone can be the judge of life. So from when he passed the judicial exam to, say, retirement, and in the meantime, there's a situation that increases his property or something. Well, at least it should be specified, if not after every term that ends up with a new appointment to file an property card, then at least put this part that it is obliged to do so if there are significant changes in its property card part. Furthermore, it is also important to say, these are the provisions of Article 37, where this is indeed incorrect, and Article 37 would therefore, if the composition is discussed. According to the Judges Council, the elected judges of the President of the County Court, the High Commercial and all of them are listed, so such a literal interpretation would result in both judicial and municipal and all of them being those listed in Article 37(1). I said Articles 90 and 92. The important thing is that in Article 151 I think the provisions should be reconsidered, because they should be essentially applied to both court and interpreters. It is also important to say that an expression in Article 93 of the Treaty in Article 111 is not acceptable at the same time as the appropriate application of the rules laid down in the two systems governing salaries and other rights and obligations and responsibilities of work. This is meant by officials and tenants, it must be specified exactly which regulations they exercise their rights to. Therefore, Article 115(2) should be reconsidered in the section according to which the staff of the professional assistants in the court may also carry out their own tasks when laid down by law and other regulations, since such a provision should not be subject to the content of this law. Article 116(2) states that the state budget must provide funds for exactly the number of judicial practitioners for which the Minister of Justice has given consent. The provisions of paragraph 3 should therefore be completed because the matter relating to the passing of a judicial examination should not be part of the provisions relating to judicial practitioners. Article 125(2) should also be amended. Therefore, there are many, many other nomotechnical expressions of non-compliance with the provisions. And that is why we welcome the fact that this law is in the first reading, and we hope that this time the ministry, and not like those laws that we had for the last time, will take this comment seriously, and not that it will ultimately teach us that it was done by legal professionals and that they accept nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34034	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic, the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34035	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the draft law on courts, and its adoption and debate on the proposed solutions assesses it as extremely important, on the one hand, because of all the reform processes that are recorded in the segment of the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, because of the inconceivable importance of this law understood as a normative pillar of the establishment of the entire judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely this regulation that the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are also developed from Articles 117 to 123, bearing in mind, of course, the fact that, in a trio, a special authority constitutes a judgment which is independent and independent and carried out by courts, of course under the Constitution and the law. The law governing the establishment, delirious and actual jurisdiction of courts, the internal structure of courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the rights and duties of judges, the conditions for the appointment of the President of the Court and the Judges of the Judges, the conditions and procedure for the appointment of permanent judicial experts, interpreters and evaluators, the protection of official secrecy, the protection of persons and the property of the judicial authorities and the provision of funds for the work of the court are indeed at the heart of interest and the public, but also of legal profession. Let me look at two very important principles that we find in this introductory section in terms of their development in the proposed text of the law. The first principle is the principle of a reasonable trial, and the second principle is the principle of uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. As regards the first principle, it shall be specified, i.e. objectively objectively, that principle of the trial within a reasonable period of time, in a way that certain cases may be given into the jurisdiction of the second court of the same jurisdiction. The relevant principle in terms of its development should, of course, also be taken into account in relation to Article 29. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. Indeed, from the point of view of the citizens and those who seek legal protection, but also from the level of fundamental human thinking, there is no greater injustice than late justice. However, here and from the point of view of legal theory and practice, it is justified to ask whether we have exhausted all the possibilities of legislative regulation, regardless of the procedural or material legal nature, to minimise this problem to the least possible extent. A concrete solution to Article 10 of the proposed law reads: That the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may, with the prior opinion of the General Session of that Court, determine that a different type of case is handled by another really competent court, as a court which is local and really competent because of a large number of cases which he or she has in office and cannot discuss these cases within a reasonable period of time and make a decision. Whether these problems come about we are because the courts are overwhelmed by a large number of cases or in concrete situations and in a small number of cases we come up with such situations that there is no, indeed no trial within a reasonable time, we suggest, but since it is the first reading, that this is indeed a solution of this kind, of course, a quality solution, but whether or not it is possible to elaborate more precisely, or better quality, the trial, to develop the principle of the trial within a reasonable time. The second principle is the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. So this is really an important paper that we find in Article 57 of the proposed law aphiding this principle, but in a way that, in the event that courts of the second instance make different decisions in the same factual and legal matter, which is not permitted by an extraordinary legal remedy, the party may submit a request to the Supreme Court to examine whether such decisions are at risk of uniform application of the law. In this respect, the legal understanding of the Office of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is mandatory for all courts in all proceedings to which this understanding applies, in which no judicial decision has been taken until the date of its adoption. The solution is absolutely acceptable, but the question is raised as to what is the case with a specific case, i.e. it is evident that since the case has been worked out by this institute, therefore a specific matter in which the party submits a request to the Supreme Court has already become a power of power and therefore what role this claim has to play in the Supreme Court in relation to the exercise of the right of interest of the party applying in the particular case itself. Furthermore, as regards specific provisions or analyses of concrete solutions under the law itself, I would first mention, of course, that the provisions on the appointment of judges are transposed by the very proposal of this law into a special law, the State Judicial Council Act. At the debate both on committees and on the distinguished colleagues of lawyers, we have a proposal to remain these solutions in the Courts Act, but from the point of view of the analysis of this solution I think that this solution can, in fact, be within the meaning of the Courts Act itself, therefore there is no dispute over the fact that such a proposal can be accepted in the context of discussing the proposal of the Law on Courts. Secondly, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure as Procedural Laws have already been introduced so-called the principle of monocracy, i.e. the possibility of a judge per individual. Such solutions have been translated into this draft law, although the wording of Articles 7(1) and (2), so in the legal matters of judicial jurisdiction, the judge in the first instance and the paragraph 2 of the court's higher degree of judgment in the Council and as judges of individuals when the law is laid down. So from these procedural regulations, solutions or solutions have been passed, and I am in the proposed Law on Courts. Second, the Institute of Immunity of Judges shall be governed more precisely, i.e. in accordance with Article 123, of course. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia regardless of immunity or irresponsibility, and here always solutions that are closer to these constitutional provisions are, of course, better quality, but a really good institution of the immunity of judges and in light of the provisions of Article 123. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Subject law regulates pay levels, i.e. the salaries of judges, which, of course, refer to the provisions of a specific regulation. So the solution is to trace the European Charter of Laws of the Court of Justice of the Council of Europe's 1998 application. Furthermore, the law in question opens the possibility for courts for specific legal areas to be established by a special regulation, with the explicitly prescribed division of courts into regular and specialised courts, as well as the introduction of the possibility for courts to have spokesmen. As far as this new solution is concerned, or, therefore, the spokesman of a particular court, it should also be pointed out here, and in fact the proposal also highlights, correctly and fully informing the public which must not be left to frequent superficial and unprofessional comments. In view of the practice that we have, we think and appreciate that this is an extremely high-quality solution, i.e. that speakers need, in fact, at these key moments when the public wants information about certain court procedures to provide information, but that this information is not left to the public either by superficial or unprofessional comments. The case law or proposal of the law also lays down the special position of judges as officials in the judicial authority, with two types of obligations prescribed and with regard to both of these types of obligations, should be addressed from this place. On the one hand, the judge must not question impartiality and independence in the trial process. It is necessary to link the provisions referred to above to the effect that the judge must not carry out any other duty and work which could not affect its independence, impartiality or independence or reduce its social reputation or otherwise are incompatible with the conduct of the judicial duty. Very important, we believe, or consider those provisions that actually apply and elaborate judicial inspection within the Ministry of Justice. We also think that it is our assessment that not just the inspection for the sake of inspection but the development of jurisdiction in a certain sense and from the control of judicial inspection in relation to the work of individual courts, judges, the state of the case is actually one solution that needs to improve the image of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia compared to all the negativeities we had heard today from this pay phone. However, these cases of judicial inspection would also be carried out by judicial inspectors of the Ministry of Justice but by persons who are judges or more administrative advisers in order to further ensure that such supervision as has been detailed in the legal provisions will not affect the executive authority in the case of a judgment outside the framework laid down by law and that we find this very important to be mentioned in the context of this institute, the new judicial inspection institute and regarding all those provisions of the Law within the meaning of the jurisdiction of that body and, respectively, the tasks to which that judicial inspection will be dealt. And finally, of course, we all support solutions that go in order to objectively or introduce objective criteria for assessing the work of judges, so that in the maximum possible way, the criteria that judges will follow in their career to make these criteria as objective as possible, be the foundation, the foothold that will promote them in their work not only in terms of evaluation but in terms of taking over in our judiciary and more responsible court cases. And as regards the property status of judges as judicial officials, we support, of course, the solutions proposed in this law, but we would prefer to those considerations that the property situation of judges in terms of the beginning of the conduct of the judicial duty, so until the end, while a particular judge may be more conditionally adapted to some kind of life or specific circumstances in which an individual as a judge can be found in his working judicial council by performing his judicial duty. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal of the Law on Courts, given that it is a first reading, we think and we believe that there is no reason for this quality proposal to be even more quality until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34036	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić, HNS PGS Representatives Club please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34037	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS PGS Club reflects the attempts and efforts of the Ministry to introduce as much as possible and as far as is possible at this time order into this activity which is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia, not only for European and all other integrations but also for the functioning of not telling the rule of law, but for countries as such. Every state that has a system is a legal state. This bill tries to systematise the solutions so far on the one hand, which is good because these solutions have been in various places in various changes and additions, it is good to find themselves in one place, to nomotechnically office, so that they correspond to the current state of affairs. On the other hand, there is a clear need for innovations, innovations of the Law, some of these solutions have been taken over from the Croatian People's Party project in judicial reform and well that they have been taken over, recognized by people of good ideas, applied them and given God to live. However, before the final proposal for this law on some novelties comes, some solutions in this proposal should be reconsidered or at least clarify what it really means. The article 10. introduces and clarifies the term of the trial within a reasonable period of time, as the term "cancer" of the Croatian Court of Justice states, the deadlines in the good part of the cases which are of existential importance for the citizens and for the legal persons are not reasonable but are strange. The solution to which jurisdiction is given to another court of the same real jurisdiction is a good solution, in the case where a court such as the Zagreb courts, such as the Split and the other court is overcrowded, that the jurisdiction to the other court which is not so busy is good, even if the costs naturally go to the expense of the state budget, obviously otherwise cannot be, you cannot burden the parties with these costs. Article 13 sets out special courts, and this goes in the direction of rationalisation and acceleration of the system, perhaps before the adoption of the second final proposal for law and second reading, should consider explicit guidance of labour courts as special courts. On the one hand, there is the greatest pressure of these cases on the courts and, on the other hand, these actions by their character are hasty procedures and there is, of course, traffic congestion, if there were a special working legal situation, it might have been somewhat improved. Article 15 discusses the trial outside the court's seat and the days of judgment, I think it is also a good step in rationalising and speeding up procedures and finally approaching in the conditions we are, bringing the courts closer to the citizens, and geographically not only to the provisions of some. Article 29 refers to the court’s spokesman. As naive and unimportant as that may seem, it's still an important thing. If the institution is introduced, two things will be avoided, on the one hand a mess and an inappropriate situation that judges themselves comment on their cases that are simply not around the world and what should not be done, and on the other hand the frustration of these same judges who, and their institutions, can't say anything about what happened. A spokesman would be a good mediator, who could create a more normal situation. Article 34 proposes the establishment of a judicial practice monitoring department as a possibility. I think you should consider introducing such a department as an obligation. In particular, given what is further proposed in the Law and the fact that court practice is not unique in the Republic of Croatia and that what happens in other courts, a court that has a particular case should know and must know if such a department is introduced, this would become possible as an obligation. I think the whole proposal is the most interesting article 57. Where different interpretations of the same regulation are discussed by two courts of the same jurisdiction. In that case, at the request of the party, the Supreme Court shall give a mandatory opinion. It may be an element of Anglo-Saxon law, but it's an imminent and good move. But the question is, what happens after that? The Supreme Court clearly chooses one among the two views of the lower courts as correct. What's going on with the party that's damaged in the other party? This party should be given the possibility of some legal satisfaction, therefore the possibility of this judgment and such a legal position of the Supreme Court being applied and retroactively. There are two possibilities to do it. One is that such a ruling of the Supreme Court is found to be a valid reason for repeating the legally completed procedure. It would require of course changes, not only in this law, but I don't think it's inexecutable. Another way to enable the Constitutional Court to seek an annulment of the judgment for this reason, because the Supreme Court has given such an opinion which is clearly measurable and which lower courts must respect. All in all this proposal of the Law seems to be going towards a better system organisation towards the rationalization of the judiciary and we will certainly support it in the first reading. Including the proposal that judges in future judges in these, in uniforms, which might not be the case for credibility, but for the integrity of the court has a positive impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34038	Thank you very much. I am reporting that at 11.26, it will be time to report on this item of the debate agenda for 10 minutes. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Petar Selem, scheduled a meeting of the Committee, today at 13:15 in the hall of Ivan Mažuranić, hall 84. Dear Representative Josip Vresk on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34039	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Assistant. We at the HSS Club believe that there will be two painful reforms in this country in adapting to European Union standards, that is in agriculture, but also in the judiciary. Indeed, the situation in the judiciary does not satisfy anyone, and at least the citizens needed to do something about it, but it seems to us that this is an insufficient move made by the Ministry, or the Government. This text of the law actually contains two things. It contains those regulations that, which were passed in the time of the 90s on here, and their unification and contains small and cosmetic changes that will not improve an important situation in the judiciary. In fact, every time I spoke with this speaker, I said that the courts are really burdensome, but that the proceedings with us are extremely long, and we still haven't passed two important procedural laws that would contribute to the process taking place as soon as possible, and that it ensures what citizens are asking for from the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, which are, above all, the Law on litigation and the Code on Criminal Procedure, which has long been said to come to the Parliament, and there's really nothing left of it yet. In fact, when it comes to this very text, what surprises you. It is surprising that we have not yet seen that in the Republic of Croatia the very organisation of the judicial authority does not meet our needs. You know, even that idea of introducing appeal courts was a good idea, and I'm not sure it should have been rejected immediately, because it is one of the important reasons for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia's burden. I'll tell you, dear colleagues and colleagues, if one of you, of us today became the Supreme Court judge, would inherit a referendum with hundreds of cases of which some are over 15 years old. You know whatever decision you make about such a case as a judge, it will not be good, simply because it is made after 15 years, even more years of proceedings in our courts. When it comes to the burden of our courts, it is actually the most about the burden of four municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, which is with our famous Zagreb, it is Splitski, Rijeka, Osijek, Municipal Court, and there is mostly the largest number of cases that we run as unsolved cases. There are courts that work well and judges of course who do their job well. We still haven't decided it seems to me that there are no visions of what will be with the Municipal Court in Zagreb? Do you divide it into two courts, three courts or four courts according to territorial jurisdiction or leave it as it is? However, the court has another feature. If you would like to take a look at how many judges have left that court in the last 10 years, how many new judges have come, then I would be more clear to you about the cases that have been in that court for years. When someone comes as a new judge to that court, he inherits a referendum with two hundred and three hundred cases, and you can imagine how long it takes him to get into the essence of his referendum? What, and here, I will agree with my colleague Josipovic when he talks about the appointment of the president of the court. In fact, the President of the Court unless he's a judge, and when he does, then he's a judge, he's mostly in the affairs of the judicial board. And it seems to me that the Ministry of Justice should have much more power, because when we talk about the powers of the judicial councils to give an opinion to candidates for the President of the Court, then it's another kind of opinion than the opinions it gives as a candidate for a judge. When the President judges as judge in a particular case, he is a judge. When acting as President of the Court, then one of the judges of that court who performs the tasks of the so-called Court of Justice. The court's administrations. It's a good thing that judicial inspectors were introduced in this law. I'm not sure, however, that only by scaring judges will solve the problem. I don't defend the sloppyness of judges and I don't stand on the point that all the judges are good or bad, but we've been doing some extra pressure lately, and that way we don't seem to be solving the problem, even though the fact that something more radical is going to be solved by a judicial inspector doesn't seem to be standing for me. But there's one other thing. We've never more radically touched the jurisdiction of the courts. When you look at the good jurisdiction of municipal courts, then you will see that municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia and these are extraparious cases of the court, in fact, in things that are more appropriate in nature to be in administrative rather than in judicial proceedings. You and today have cases that municipal courts are in charge of, say, declaring a missing person for fatigue. Municipal courts here today still give permission to marry before the age of 18. This, in the very nature of things, falls under administrative jurisdiction. And if you look at a few neighbouring countries they don't have it in court but in administrative jurisdiction but it would be good to think about it until the second reading of this law, so it's a good thing that this is the first reading because it really isn't the kind of things in courts. We still do not, regardless of all attempts by the former government and the good intentions of the Ministry of Justice, yet do not have a quality mechanism for the education of the Sadducees. The frequent changes to the laws that are being done with us, and even more importantly, that is, adapting our standards to the standards of the Union countries will certainly raise the need, will certainly cause an extremely high need for additional education of judges and we still do not have such a mechanism. Or at least we're not working on it being the way it should be under the current mechanisms that exist in the form of seminars, etc., etc. What I'm trying to say is that unfortunately I won't be able to tell you about the State Judicial Council Act are also the criteria for selecting judges. I'll tell you just one example, we still have the criteria set for selecting the Supreme Court judge for 15 years of judicial training according to a legal exam, although it doesn't say it directly, so I suggest to the Proposer to fix that part of the text, these deadlines are probably starting to count from the day of the judicial examination, I think that's a harsh criterion. I don't know, and I really don't care how many years someone should work to gain all the necessary knowledge and experience to become a Supreme Court judge, but I'll say you know, if not after 10 years of working in the judiciary doesn't get enough experience for a Supreme Judge, believe me, they'll never get it. This high set of criteria actually limit the choice of people who can even apply, apply to any competition or compete to become judges of the Supreme Court. I also think of municipal and county courts. I think this criterion should lower how much... I don't know, but you should lower it anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I suggest to the Proposer that he fix the text nomotechnically, I suggest that he take a special look at Article 75(1) where it is decided that the Judicial Council gives an assessment and on the basis of the debate, I do not know what this means on the basis of the debate, with all the other evidence required, to correct that paragraph of Article 75 and, of course, in the transitional and final provisions, it should finally be written once that acts are adopted by the Head of the Authority, so the Minister. The Minister may adopt three acts under our Law on the System of State Administration. It's a rulebook, an order and a guideline. And it's good to have the law say it's called a sublegal act brought by the minister by working out certain provisions of the law. In principle, the HSS Club supports this Act, we expect a much better text when it is referred as a final bill and we suggest to the Proposer that it correct non-technical shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34040	Thank you, dear colleague Vresk. It is next on behalf of Club DC, HSLS and LS respected colleague Piploić, please welcome fellow Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34041	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the DC Club, HSLS and LS, since the first reading is supported by this Proposed Law on Courts, and I believe that during this debate and future discussions, we will give the utmost of ourselves to give Croatia one law that will be proud and that when this Law is used, there will be fewer problems and personal and social issues, and unfortunately with such problems today we often face. This Law belongs to one of those reform laws, a law that shows the strength of Croatia itself as much as it wants to have an efficient system. We know well that one of the most difficult reforms will be judicial reform, that the judiciary concerns everyone and personally as an individual, a citizen but also an entity that lives and works in many elements, in organisations, in society etc.. Many of the resistances are often on the scene you have those resistances visible, you have those resistances invisible so that when you take this period of a year and a few days in the functioning and work and efforts of our Ministry of Justice should still be satisfied with what the Ministry has given and did so far. Let us remember the frequent objections we have heard from many of our citizens and the very profession that the courts are slow, that they are overcrowded, that they are unprofessional, that they are disorganised, that they are under the boot of politics etc. Many of these assessments, however, are easy to conclude, the problem is that from this situation we come up with, so in this proposal of the Law on Courts we see one way out of these situations in this situation where we are here now. One of the main priorities of judicial reform is the creation of an effective judicial administration in any case and it is often known to repeat that reform requires not only investment in buildings and equipment but requires investment in people and an entire management system. And it seems to me that the basis of the overall success of any reform is this human factor or that human factor is falling or passing on that human factor. So the human factor in plus the management system that's two concepts seems to me to be on which we should put the emphasis. In order to manage a single 300 machine in Croatia, over 300 courts need to establish a good governance system. The ministry, as we know in the past year, has benefited from some of the measures provided by the present Law on Courts, which have not been used to a sufficient extent over the past period. Let us remind ourselves of what we could often hear in the press and in the media of the numerous administrative oversights carried out by the Ministry in cooperation with senior courts and the basis of these administrative oversights we have seen that there has been a population improvement in the work of certain courts, and the basis of this supervision has also seen and removed appropriate irregularities, there has been a resolution of individual responsible persons. Let us remember, for example, the Brač case and the judge Domić, also or the Zagreb case with the Zagreb grantovnica where, according to what was said in the Ministry, we had over 300 thousand resolved cases which had not been sent, which pointed to a set of officers from the grantovnica and various agencies for one, for a quick delivery of documents. But we know well what was behind it, that there was one, one mob organization that was thus slowing down the reform of the entire system, creating dissatisfaction with the citizens, and thus reshaping the reputation not only of the system, the judicial system but also of the entire state. In this law there are also some shifts which, in fact, seem to me to be taking over from countries, from European countries such as France, the Netherlands, Spain. It's the introduction of judicial inspectors. Furthermore, here too in all these European countries is one trend for judges to be relieved from administrative affairs and solving less complex cases through, and this business as we know it is done by court advisers. Last year, for example, we had the case at our Ministry that, that, that the powers of the court advisors were increased, that their number was increased, and that this measure, along with it, had a significant impact on the increase in the number of cases solved in the past year. In 2004, the number of cases resolved increased by 24%. And more than that, if it's known that the court advisors were most involved in litigation cases. The result of this measure is better because in the last year, for the first time, a number of solved than the cases received were recorded. For example, in 2002, the number of pending cases increased by 11%. In 2003, the number of pending cases increased by 11 and a half percent while in 2004, the problem of unsolved cases increased by 6 percent, which ultimately gives this, this percentage that I mentioned here. I think that at the end, this review of this bill itself should say that, however, there is one reform on the stage that has its course, whether it is taking a snail step or some rabbit race, all depends on the assessment and assessment of the situation and our options, but the result is there anyway and this is the result of the appropriate measures that the Ministry has taken in the past year. Let's say by increasing powers and the number of judicial advisors then it is possible to impose cases from overloaded to less-loaded courts. Then we had a temporary reference of judges to work with the lower ones on several courts. There is also an increased investment in infrastructure especially in Split and Zagreb where the construction of the Square of Justice was started. It is also necessary to mention that there has been a more intensive information and establishment of a legal file enabling judges to access these files via the Internet, which is ultimately one of the likely conditions for our adaptation to the European Union. Founding of the Judicial Academy and Regulatory Centres for Education. The adoption of all these amendments to the Law on Courts, attending the Judicial Academy will become a condition for progress in the judicial career. On all these measures, the waist gave its full consent. Therefore, it is to believe that when we have this Law, we will also have more quality effects in judicial reform. In particular, it should be mentioned that good results have been obtained in the resolution of land-based books, litigation and criminal cases. However, the big problem remains, this is the problem of a large number of unsolved executives and it is one of the big burning problems to be tackled, but I would not like to talk about it now because it will be one of the next points of the agenda of our Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34042	Thank you, dear fellow Piplojic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the time has elapsed for individual hearings. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's respected representative. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34043	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for your honor, Madam Minister with your co-workers. Here I am, saying I'm going to use this debate of mys. I will immediately point out that it is really high time to pass a brand-new Law on Courts because the existing Law on Courts with its many amendments that have always meant and certain progress has actually become an obstacle to the further development of the judicial authority. And when we talk about the Law on the Proposal of the Law on Courts, I think we need it all the time, we have to keep in mind one unequivocally fact that right now we, as a legislative authority, are now invited to do that part of our job to improve the judicial authority to become effective, to respond to citizens' demands under the Constitution and law. However, this is also the time to perhaps mention that in 1990 Croatia had a historic chance to establish an independent judiciary. If we hadn't used it back then, and it's just these past years that we've had to invest huge resources, huge effort and effort to improve the situation because it's usually the result of something that doesn't happen in time. So in the 1990s, large earthquakes occurred in the judiciary and the situation went backwards. And of course, the solutions are neither fast nor able, and the strongest reform and reform procedure cannot produce fruit immediately. And that's why these data that are already speaking for 2004 to reduce yet to a certain extent the number of inflows, it is a testimony, therefore, is the result of persistent work and years of reform procedures. There is no reform procedure in the judiciary that will be shown in a month or half a year or even a year. However, it seems to me that it is a real shame that last year's executive law could have changed it and changed it in the meantime when it was due to enter into force it was suspended because by the end of 2004, it would have been evident in all areas that the number of delays would have been smaller or the number of newly created cases than those being solved. However, we are left with hope that it will only be done now by amending the executive law. Maybe this is an opening opportunity to say something about criminal matters. There's almost no backlog. We've seen from the State's Attorney's Office's report that there's no backlog. However, the public is quite critical and in contrast to these branches of criminal trial because many of the cases observed in public, for which the public expects a quick solution is not the end. It's about cases of economic crime. Here's maybe one icon that sometimes and that's really it, that the skills in these objects are expensive. At times, an item of skill for a particular court does not give rise to the necessary resources for a year as necessary in a single case. It's about a case of the County Court in Osijek. At that time, the government provided 800 thousand kuna from a special reserve for the court in order to resolve the case. It wasn't done. Later, additional funds were provided, not done again. And then through such a delicate object, an object that has extended for years, which threatens to... in antiquity, which despite the warning and the constant haste that follows from the Ministry of Justice, because it cannot do anything else and makes the subject faster, the subject stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now here's what I'm talking about is how and through this law that we're now adopting, which we're now discussing to the proposal, make it impossible for these situations to happen. First of all, I think here's what I'm going to talk about, specifically, about certain provisions, but I find as one of the possible exits, to find an answer to these questions that are constantly disturbing citizens. And then the public is rightly very critical of the judicial authorities. It seems to me that this should have led to these changes because this is why both the ministry and the entire government has an absolute consensus, so with more boldness, it could have stepped into amending this existing law to give answers to some of the conditions and situations that confuse our public and that would have made it impossible for some of the phenomena that would have led to the suspicion of the entire judiciary for that reason. First of all, it seems to me that the Council of Ministers of Europe's directive should be listened to so-called. It's not a court case that takes away the jurisdiction of the court. Therefore, we will partially resolve this by law, so I reiterate that it is a real shame that he has not already entered into force or that his changes did not follow during this government earlier if they did not agree with such a radical solution as was offered during the coalition government. And at the end of the day, that law was and came into force. However, there is room not only for the done thing here is just saying on behalf of the HSS club Mr. Vresk pointed out also a whole series of cases and actions where there is no longer any need for really no need to judge the courts. If the courts want to have absolute urgency, and that's also to deal with the backlogs, that's possible. So let's leave them the jurisdiction of trial in those really things that are trial, which require a measure of things. So there's still a lot of space here where practically administration things are placed in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority. These are simple objects but there are many and needlessly burdened by the judiciary. After all, so much education and so much resources of judicial proceedings is always expensive, no matter how much we reduce court fees, or bar fees, it is always tight with great costs and a waste of time. That's why even richer countries don't allow themselves this luxury of putting everything and everything in their courts. In fact, countries in transition that are no longer in transition countries that have become members of Europe have implemented such a reform that they have also given up their judiciary in cases that do not belong and should not fall under judicial jurisdiction. Both in this way and among other things, they have become faster and more effective in this branch of government. In particular, speaking of the draft law, here I refer to a provision that says, in a sentence, that the Supreme Court is, or that the highest body of the judicial administration is the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to warn you that this provision of Article 28 of the proposal is in direct contrast with the provision of Article 59 which states that the Ministry of Justice is the authority of the highest judicial authority. So now we have two norms of equal importance, and there may be a conflict of jurisdiction in the administrative activity of the judiciary by the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Court and the Ministry, or Minister, respectively. So I think this needs to be fixed anyway, so let's decide on one of the proposed options. What seems to me to be very good and what was also confusing to the public is this provision where it is not possible to declare any other legal remedy because it is already a powerful decision, nor is it possible to declare an audit for the party to address the Supreme Court, and there have been unequal actions, or decisions, almost in the same factual matters. That's what I mean is one significant breakthrough. However, it seems to me that right here at the Justice Department, what the public expected about the inspectors themselves, regardless of what they're going to do now, I think it's very restrictive if they settle down just once again for administrative oversight. There are some situations where they can investigate and should be given that authority so as not to confuse some of the situations that then come out in public. And at the end of the criticism, it falls to the ministry itself, and then this administrative surveillance that some things couldn't have been discovered before. That's why it seems to me bravely to step up here, and give more authority to these particular judicial inspections that would somehow have the possibility. To discover some of the situations that have baffled the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34044	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague, time has passed long ago. It's my dear colleague Nenad Stazic's turn to be your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Is the situation in our justice system castatrophic? Yes, it is. Does the Minister know that? He knows. Does the government know that? He knows the whole government. Do we know that here? We know. Does the public know that? He knows the public, too. Do those who engage in the sacrifice of that judiciary know that? They especially know that. Are they in such a bitter state? They did. And now we're in a situation where everyone knows everything, and no one's doing anything. Don't be mad, Madam Minister, at this nothing. It's not like this is anything. But this is not enough for one reform that is necessary this is not enough. I, Madam Minister, greatly appreciate your efforts. I know your commitment. I know your determination to change the situation in the judiciary and I appreciate that determination. Who is it that can change this creepy state of justice? Who can implement this reform? Politics. No one but politics. That's us. You as a government, we as a legislative body. This job requires a national consensus. And in what the clubs have been saying here, I read that this national consensus exists. Everyone agrees that something needs to be done. All, however, agree that what is offered is unfortunately insufficient to declare one serious reform and reform is necessary. What are the biggest pains, so we all know that, a thousand times we've already figured that out. On the one hand, a long trial, on the other hand, a large number of statutes. And then the kind of statutes that insult public change. Here in May will probably go into an outdated case of one of our colleagues. And what needs to be determined is that 150 pages of one text are in 150 pages of the other text. That should have been determined. But it can't be determined by that court at all, until it's out of date. It's something that the citizens rightly resent. And they rightly demand that this state ceases. Today. Today to stop. You get the impression that the courts exist and work for those who break the laws. They're kind of the most protected, they're comfortable. A man who has to come to justice is hardly to hope for justice, especially not within a reasonable time. Well, we have such convictions that, to be justified, some of them should never be generalized. There are perfectly certain quality, valuable judges in Croatia. No profession can be talked about in generalization. But there are those whose work the public rightly looks down on. Look, in some cases, banks have been taken and transferred to private accounts, to the private accounts of organised crime members who have been tried as members of criminal organizations. Nothing to anyone. What to say about Judge Domic's case, which please, has not been resolved yet. She hasn't been resolved yet. Paul Brač signed up for two private names. She's still a judge, she's still getting paid as a judge, and ask God how long she'll be in. What to say about Judge Vidusic of Crikvenica, who is in custody, is in custody a man. He's done similar things to Domician, and he's still a judge and he's still getting paid. And ask God when they will receive it. What to say about a Sibenik judge who has a criminal prosecution, a criminal trial takes eight years. For eight years, that court couldn't bring a lawyer about his colleague. Well, you know what I can think, he didn't bring it because he won't bring it, he won't. Now, until such things are resolved, let's not have the illusion that we're going to accomplish something big and let's not pack up the situation and say that we've started reform. The reform will begin when these things don't happen. Another important topic is commenting on the work of the judiciary. The judiciary is independent and must be independent and judges must be independent in the trial. No one opposes it, no one has ever objected, but that it's forbidden by law, that any commenting on the work of judges is forbidden, so allow me, it encourages this state. And not to comment, because every comment, it's a criminal offense against a judicial officer. Therefore, the ministers will be relieved of this, change this article to the second reading, which will then allow it to take place in 309. The penal code describes coercion against a judicial official. Well, coercion over a judicial officer must remain a crime anyway, but that means something else. That a judge is harassing, calling him, forcing him, blackmailing him, that a verdict looks one way or the other. But that the work or commentation of Judge Domic could be seen as a coercion over a judicial official, forgive me, it is unreasonable. And judges do public work and have to be under public control. You have to be able to talk about how many judges work, whether they work enough. You have to be able to talk about how they work. This has to be public. Because look, you can't let commentation be forbidden, for example. The explanation of the judge's verdict in Gospić, who tried man for war crimes, and then said in his explanation that he was guilty because his ancestors together with the Ottomans had been oppressing the Croatian people for 500 years. So he who is able to write such a sentence in the light of judgment, he cannot be a judge. Well, he can't. In particular, one more comment on Article 92. You now oblige the judges to report property to the ministry. When? At the beginning and at the end of the term. And their term of office is life. And every year, if it's about change, if it's about change. And what's the important change? Change that, make them deliver every year, everyone, like all the other officials who have to. And besides that, we see what goes on, what happens next? The ministry finds that there has been some significant change in the material status of a judge. And what about him now? What's next? Some things should still be worked out in one word, I appreciate your efforts, I support them. As you can see, you have the support of all the clubs in that, but dive a little deeper into that ice, a little deeper, a little more radical, not a little, much more radical. Not only in this law but also in other laws, and then we will all be able to say together that we are taking serious efforts in judicial reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34046	Thank you. The word has been given by the esteemed vice president of Dom Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34047	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course it's time to get a new Law on Courts. And in this respect certainly this text deserves to be able to pass the first reading and that we can and need about it now... We can and we need to discuss it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there are several things both in principle and in particular specific nature that should be warned and distracted to consider at least one more time. In my opinion, it is not good to segregate from the Law on Courts terms and criteria, especially general and special conditions regarding the appointment and resolution of judges. By the nature of things this simple and constitutional legal aspect hardly falls within the content of the Law on the State Judicial Council. The law on the State-Court Council should be discussed on the conditions and criteria for the appointment of those judges, members of the State Judicial Council, and its proceedings, etc. But you shouldn't talk about the terms and criteria of the appointment of judges. This should certainly appear and be in the Law on Courts. Secondly, it is not sufficient in the reason for the law to state that it is necessary to secure around 650 thousand kuna in 2005. In fact, it should also be possible to provide some source of these funds which will, of course, be in line and the possibilities to finance the implementation of the law. Because this simply doesn't work in this context either, or it has to be within the framework of the Ministry's redistribution or I don't know how to ask for the rebalance to be ensured or that the Government will, by its kind of act, etc., etc. in accordance with the Law on Budget Implementation. Third. It seems to me that on the line of division, it would be difficult for us to accept the concept that practically allows in Article 99 that judges can be temporarily deployed with the fact that this is no longer temporary for a year but up to four years actually even at the work of executives and even foresees legislative authorities. And in this context, it would be quite certain that the principle of power-sharing would be difficult to endure the legislative and executive authority, and it is also questionable, of course, what is the case with the judicial, or the special constitutional provision relating to courts and judges that judges cannot carry out cases that are incompatible with the functions of judges, i.e. the judicial authorities, and in this respect I ask that this be examined once again. It would not be good to open a constitutional dispute on this issue, because it simply cannot be as planned here. Moreover, as a consequence, it would certainly have a potential conflict of interest. It is impossible for someone elected as a judge to be selected for life after those five years first for the judge and is now temporarily deployed for four years in the executive power, but he is still a judge, there rests the judicial duty, that he does not, for example, come to the government as an assistant minister or secretary of state, for example, even in the judiciary in a conflict of interest related to the setting of certain questions and of course the distribution of funds, and the decision-making that is very important. And for this reason, it would be important to separate this issue, but it should also separate this issue of supervision that is proposed where the judge can be appointed to the ministry so that he can exercise judicial oversight and control over the work of courts specifically related to the implementation of the law, but then that part should specify exactly what these persons can do and who they are responsible for. The fourth question is for me which could not be accepted, and it is primarily about, however, a notional question arises here, what is the judicial administration and what is the judicial administration. In some places, the notion of judicial administration is used, in some judicial administrations. Of course, here when talking about a court is probably meant for a particular court, but then it should be consistently applied, as the judicial administration writes everywhere, it is understood that this is purely for nomotechnical reasons to be solved. However, it could be difficult to accept the concept by which the Registrar of the Court would be a state official, for example, of the Supreme Court, and that he could not adopt an act governing the work and working relations of employees in the judicial administration or judicial administration, as this is what the minister foresees to do with his regulations. I don't think that's good and that in fact, in this segment, a team should be more than the law governing the position of state officials, deputies and officials should apply as a provision as a general clause in this case, and, of course, the implementing rules should be brought here by a minister rather than by a responsible person. Because I think if he's a state official, he can't be the only one who's going to help the judge schedule the case. It must also have other powers in this respect or cannot be a state official. Because the way he's set up here, he's not a court secretary, he's turning out to be a secretary, actually, of the Supreme Court or of the Secretary of Justice, and that's not good. I don't think that's why you need to have it. It should be arranged and ensured, in fact, that a whole series of these issues are regulated. The question of what's wrong with the secretary of court is immediately raised. It's an unusual solution for our opportunities not to have a court secretary. It's good to relieve the President of the Court of Justice of a whole series of judicial affairs, and in particular as to the initiation of the proceedings, you see how I speak, the initiation of proceedings for easier and more serious injuries, because what with the conclusion is hard to go. You know that the Constitutional Court has made a decision by which, a position taken by which the conclusion is not a legal act. Therefore, it could be difficult to allow a conclusion to be made in courts where minor injuries, discipline, or major injuries are involved, and the proposal is in fact only a serious one. It's got to be one-of-a-kind. Now, what's the problem with the secretary? It is proposed that he may have higher professional training with courts, and now, in terms of the allocation of the case and the powers of the judicial administration, he would have the appropriate powers amongst other things for advisers and senior court advisers who must have a college and passed a judicial exam. It would be hard to do that, and I don't think it's necessary to put such an individual in an impossible situation. If this is an attempt, norm to target a specific person, it needs to be found another suitable place and employment, not in court. Still, it implies that you have to have a different position. Of course, in addition to this, I have to say that several remarks should also be reconsidered. You can see in Article 11 of the State authorities and legal entities that are obliged to assist courts in the conduct of the judicial authority. There's now a question in civil society. What legal aid a private company would be obliged to grant to a court in the exercise of a judicial authority. I don't think the general way it's written here is going to work. It has to be specified, it has to be worked out. The second is the nomotechnical issue related to the jurisdiction of individual courts. One model is applied in Article 16 where the content of competence is listed in the law and so the law changes what we are going to do then, and then in other articles, it is numerically what it would be to re-in order to speak again in Article 20(4), paragraph 1 of point 4 of this Article even about Article 40 and that paragraph 2 of the Law, for example, about companies. I don't think that's good, and that part needs to be worked out. I think that, however, it is necessary to accept the numbering combined with the general clause, where the affairs of courts should be numbered, and then finally give the general clause and say the other law-set jobs can never be predicted in advance, which all laws will be passed especially from the aspect of harmonising our legislation with the European Union and which jobs of course by nature things will need to come into the jurisdiction of the courts. In Article 33, such a solution to the legal understanding of the Supreme Court is unacceptable, and you know, according to which the legal understanding of the Supreme Court session would be binding on all courts. It receives legal power because at the very least the character of the authentic interpretation of the Parliament. Still, I don't think so, and I think that those practices that applied to congregation systems, I'm not going to talk about the other one, should finally be released. This understanding should be an instructional guide to judges and courts as they should share, but otherwise if it remains like this, the issue of freedom and independence of courts can be hardly interpreted because they are very dependent on this issue. General remarks concerning the selection of the President of the Courts at all. You know, here we actually have the presidents of the courts as members of the council who are constantly taking part in the decision to propose candidates for the presidents of the courts. Listen, it's a pure form of conflict of interest, and of course, in such a situation, we're going to get the malted lifetime presidents of courts in individual courts, and the question remains what about the possibilities for others to run for office and to participate in it. And just one more thing if you'll allow me, Mr. President, given that my time is up, one remark, and all the others will be ignored immediately, and that's the issue of the confidentiality of the judge's information. It is impossible to have an ethical code, it is impossible to foresee the Law of Conflict of Interest and to say that personal data and data on the property of judges are secret and that they can only, or keep records with the ministry. They must be public, available to the public that the public in this respect can present their judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34048	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34049	Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will say that I support the proposal for the adoption of the new Law on Courts before us. I support it, among other things, as has already been said and because the existing Law on Courts since its adoption in 1993 has been amended nine times making it difficult to achieve and apply it and no consolidated text of this Law has been adopted. It certainly is not just these reasons that require the adoption of a new Law on Courts. The proposal for a law on courts before us also proposes a series of newspapers that should contribute to the quality and efficiency of the work of the courts. Since it is the first reading of the Law, I will highlight only some of the newspapers listed in this Law, which I consider particularly significant. One of these newspapers is the provision of Article 15, which allows the establishment of permanent services or departments outside the court’s seat. I also consider the possibility of setting judgment days outside the court's seat on which a decision would be made by the President of the High Court to be a good solution. I also hold a significant newspaper where courts of the second stage on the same factual and legal matter are made different decisions and no extraordinary legal remedy is allowed for the parties within a year when a decision has been delivered in which the disputed legislative provision of the application to the Supreme Court is first applied to investigate whether such a decision endangers the uniform application of the Law and the equality of citizens. The provision of a general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia should certainly be taken into account here and considered, above all, that this matter should be regulated through the procedural laws of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on Criminal Procedure. I also support the paper on the introduction of a judicial inspection to extend the powers of judicial advisers, as well as the more precise definition of objective criteria for assessing the work of judges, as contained in the Council of Europe Recommendation 94.12. I would like to point to certain provisions of this bill that I hold in mind that they should be improved or more precisely defined. It is the provisions of Article 73 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European This article determines that the President of the Court is obliged to refer to a case against a judge for which he finds that, without a reasonable reason, he has not made the number of decisions established in a one-year period by framework criteria for the work of judges or has acted in a court of law. The question arises as to who will initiate a plight case against the President of the Court who is in courts of less than 20 judges in the affairs of the judicial administration, if he misbehaves his judicial duty or does not make a number of decisions according to the framework criteria for the work of judges. This proposal does not provide an answer, so I suggest that this authority, or duty, be prescribed and placed in charge of the President directly by the High Court. I will also repeat the question asked by the representatives of the Ministry at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, namely the provision of Article 103(3) of this Proposal for a Law which has been adopted by the applicable Law on Courts, i.e. Article 73a. So, this bill hasn't been changed. That provision stipulates that the President of the Court is appointed by the Minister of Justice among the candidates proposed by the Judicial Council. I ask the question whether the Minister for President of the Court can appoint a judge who meets the conditions but is not proposed by the Judicial Council, I personally believe that he cannot, because that is, or would be a direct violation of the provision of the cited article of the Law on Courts. However, this is exactly the case when the appointment of the President of the Municipal Court in Vrbovac in April 2002, when the former Minister of Justice, contrary to the unanimous proposal of the Judicial Council, appointed a candidate, which the Judicial Council not only did not propose, but expressed itself negatively on the competence of the candidate. Such an illegal situation continues to exist today as I have been warning of for a long time. If the Minister of Justice wishes to be given more power in selecting the President of the Courts, then it is possible to do so by modifying the terms of Article 103(3) of this proposal so that it can read: "The President of the Court appoints a minister of justice among candidates who meet the prescribed conditions". And in the end, I will say that I adhere to the opinion that the provisions relating to the choice of judges and the termination of judicial duties should continue to be maintained in the Law on Courts but not transposed into the Law on the State Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34050	Thank you. This is what we've concluded. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really thank you for all these suggestions and remarks you made in the debate on this first reading of the Law on Courts. I think you've been very helpful in considering some other things. There are some issues that I would still like to give an answer for better clarification. Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Suggestions that the official secret should be extended and that it should still be a little wider than the law defined, in some ways we have given a very broad opportunity since we have introduced court speakers, we believe that court speakers should communicate with both citizens and the media in order for transparency in information to be complete. There have been objections to the role of the Supreme Court, why we have not defined the Supreme Court in this division of regular and specialised courts, so the Supreme Court is the most judicial body in the state and we are just considering proposing a special law on the Supreme Court, and when it comes to you, it will also have all the the thesis needed to define, to further define the role of the Supreme Court. There was a proposal on guaranteeing minority representation in judicial bodies, we will consider all these remarks. And the motions regarding the trial within a reasonable period of time. I must say that more and more judgments from the European Court of Human Rights are coming to Croatia, citizens who are 9, 10, 12 and 20 years waiting for the end of the court proceedings are getting judgments before the European Court of Human Rights, the financial compensations made as compensation for the long-term conduct of the court proceedings are enormous and they will indeed burden the state budget. It is precisely because of this question that we are introducing supervision of the work of court cases, especially of old cases where we will not only have supervision but we will introduce and pay for the additional work of every judge who wants to work additionally in order to make these millions of backlogs, and the word is somewhere around a million and a half cases in the country really clean up. Of these million and a half unsolved cases in the country, 30% are land-book items, 30% are executives, 28% are infringements, so that's to those three categories of cases 88% of all the backlogs exist. So the rest are litigious and criminal cases. There's been a lot of talk about judicial inspection, and you've also talked about judicial oversight. My colleague Stazic presented some examples. I note that all these examples last year were open. And the Domić case on Brač and the Willušić case in Crikvenica and the Makarska case that was not mentioned here, and the Zagreb grantovnica case, where 300 thousand cases have never been solved during one surveillance, these are all things that we really have to take care of. And the Justice Department wanted to find that fine border of co-operation with courts and judges. And we do, and we all do, all of the projects that took place last year were called cooperation project to success, because that was our common goal. But all irregularities, of course, will be exposed. In addition to all these things related to the oversight of courts, we will also be making some things that may not be the subject of the law, such as the mandatory publication of powerful judgments on the courts' portals. In this way, even such criticisms related to the verdict, that famous verdict from the court in Gospić on Turkish times, are likely not to be made. Kola Arlovic highlighted the issue of Judges' participation in the ministry's work. My colleagues and colleagues, that provision exists, maybe it's anti-constitutional, I don't believe it, then she wouldn't be 10 years in the Law, since 93, is exactly the provision that my colleague Arlovic was talking about in the Law. It could be difficult to imagine working in the Ministry of Justice without a profession leaving its job, i.e. putting judicial work in a standstill or state-law job in a standstill, comes for a certain time at the Ministry of Justice to help develop the reform. Let me tell you a little bit about the backlogs. In 2002, the number of backlogs, i.e. unresolved cases, increased 11%. In 2003, the number of pending cases increased by 11.5%. Last year, the number of pending cases increased by 6%. So you can see in last year that the trend of growth of unsolved objects has been halted. Of course, we're going to have to put some order and logic in there, because when you get 20 or 30 thousand lawsuits in court in one day, then it's really hard for any reform to succeed. There was a dilemma about the property of the judges. Judges are officials and their assets must indeed be controlled. All the information on the property is public, it's not as secret as it was said. Data from the records are official classified, except for data on the judge's property. What is the fate of an unauthorized acquirer of property? I'm not gonna be mean, but I'll say, the same thing as the fate of a state official. Because the judges are also in charge. And I'd like to refer to the thesis that I need to increase the ministry's powers especially in the election of the president of the courts. I can no longer remember how the story was going, some ministers were being held back by powers, some ministers were getting more power. I can only say thank you for this trust, since I am currently the minister of justice, but certainly no justice minister can be anyone's political leverage to elect a president of the courts. And the election of the President of the Courts at least when it comes to the Minister of Justice will only be of expertise, honesty and quality. I have already said at the beginning that we are preparing a strategy for judicial reform, there will be new, lots of new elements since the strategy will work for a longer period of time, it will refer to a longer period of time. That's why it's important that this Law of Court be passed as soon as possible. I thank you once again for all these remarks and suggestions and we will adopt many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34052	I thank Minister Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34053	Proposal for a Law on Courts. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal of the Law on Courts is accepted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please come in. You can vote. The result? I find that with 91 votes for, 4 abstentions and 3 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34054	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading of P.Z. No. 258. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34055	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here after the Law on Courts, we also come up with a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council. Which is proposed by these changes and additions. It is proposed to edit the following. The provisions of this Regulation, the provisions of the Law on Courts which prescribe the conditions for the appointment of judges in Articles 49 and 50, have been transposed into these amendments and additions, for the reason that the State Judicial Council implements the procedure for the appointment and resolution of judges. I know that you've had certain objections to that in this last debate. But this is our proposal. The composition of the State Judicial Council continues to be 11 members as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but it is proposed that 9 members of the Council are elected from the ranks of judges, not as 7 members so far, but from the ranks of the University professors of legal science and from the ranks of lawyers of 1 member, not more than 2 members. If there is justice, but unfortunately this does not allow us to put the Constitution of Croatia in this Fate Council and one representative of the State's Attorney's Office, and a representative of Parliament. Under the current Law, the State Judicial Council, in its full composition, implements a strict procedure and, in view of the economic nature of the conduct of a tight procedure as a newspaper, introduces a tight Council that would carry out a tight procedure, determines the facts and make up a proposal for a decision to be delivered to the State Judicial Council. The Council of Staff would be composed of three members from the members of the State Judicial Council appointed by the DSV Decision. It was extended by this proposal to launch a tight procedure so that the deadline of 2 years is extended to 3 years, for the launch of a tight procedure of the rested tightness. In particular, it is arranged that, in the process of appointment of judges of the DSV, the opinion of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament will be obtained, but only for those candidates who meet the conditions for the judge and for the reason that the practice so far has been to submit to the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament the applications of all candidates who have applied for the seat of the judge without any need to make it difficult for this Committee to work. And the procedure for dissuasion of the judge from the conduct of the judicial duty when DSV relieves the judge of the court's duties, the appeal made to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia does not delay the execution of the solution. In particular, it has been established that the judge to whom the DSV has imposed a strict penalty of reproof must not be appointed to a higher court before the expiry of two years from the date of power of the decision to which the sentence has been imposed, i.e. if a fine has been imposed before the end of the three-year period. And finally. It shall also be arranged who may apply for the distance of the judge from his duties. The reasons why the judge may be away from his duty and, of course, during the distance from his duties, the judge shall also be entitled to 2/3 of his salary. Here, this is a brief bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34056	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Legislative Committee? Justice! Dear Representative Rade Ivas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34057	The Honorable Vice-President, Minister, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, held at the 22nd session on 9 March 2005, discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, which was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 17 February. The Committee shall be based on the powers laid down in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the amendments in question and the additions to the laws are to be amended by the composition of the State Judicial Council in such a way that 9 members of the council are elected from the order of judges, one member in the order of university professors and lawyers as a newspaper, a Council of three members to carry out a tight procedure, an extension of the deadline for the launch of a tight procedure, a procedure for the discharge of a judge in the conduct of a judicial duty, and another. As a basis for discussion of this proposal, the legislative proposal has used the experience of some European Union countries on the procedure and way of selecting judges. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the draft law with certain remarks and proposals on certain provisions. As regards the proposed paper, the conditions for the appointment and termination of the duties of judges so far contained in the Law on Courts have been transposed into the Law on the State Judicial Council, on the grounds that everything relating to judges would be prevailed by the opinion of the members of the Committee, which supports earlier solutions under which the conditions for the appointment and termination of judges should be regulated by the Law on Courts. The proposed amendments contained in Article 4 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal to select the composition of the councils, to select one member from the line of lawyers and university professors, is assessed as unnecessary since no constitutional provision has been violated that most of the total number of members of the council must be of the order of the judges. Article 15c states that a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may be appointed a person who has worked for at least 15 years as a state in a court or another judicial body or as much as a lawyer or public notary. A paragraph 6 of the same article as the Supreme Court Judge may be appointed as a university professor of legal science with 20 years of training. It is proposed to equalise the conditions in a way that 15 years of working experience is also prescribed for a university professor of legal science. Article 23(4) shall be amended as follows: Using the experience of some European Union countries in the process of appointing judges, the Committee feels that there is no place of participation in the proposed solutions, nor the influence of the executive or legislative authority on the choice of judges. It is also the position of the board that the role of the minister of justice in the process of appointing judges has been marginalised, for example, by the minister calling a tender, the minister submits a list of all the candidates reported and the like. On the basis of a number of discussions held at the Committee's meeting in the procedure of giving its opinion to the Judges' Committee, it has been indicated that special attention should be paid in addition to the formal conditions and, where possible, should be installed and taxed, the criteria for the work of the Judges' Boards so that experts who have been given the capacity to perform judicial duties would come first and first. In the debate, in the role of the Justice Committee, the opinion prevailed that the spirit of the democratic public and the electoral body, without prejudice to anonymous law, of the State Judiciary Council, to appoint judges, was maintained through the Committee's participation in the process of naming judges. It is therefore proposed that the applicant review the existing solution in a way that determines the role of the committee in the process of appointing judges. The Committee also proposes that Article 18(3) be amended accordingly. The proposal shall be complemented by the Council’s opinion of the Judicial Council and by the provisions of Article 72, on the occasion of the decision being made, the decision to appoint judges shall also be taken into account. Court law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law will be directed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider them when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34058	We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34059	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike the Law on Courts where we were critical and had certain objections but where we have hope and expect that this Law may still be more than an aspirin in the second reading that we are afraid of, the SDP Club cannot support this Law on the State Judiciary Council for reasons because this Law is a further step in the direction I was talking about when I was talking about this first Law in the direction of autism, the autism of the judiciary in relation to the social community. The Justice Committee also stressed that it continues to support or even force the marginalisation of the minister, or the minister of justice, and thanks to the ministry that prepared this comparative demonstration of the role of ministers and ministers in the selection of judges in the democratic countries of Western Europe that we seek and we see that there ministers play a far greater role than that of postmen and that they classify the building from one end of the table to the other. We don't think that's a good position. Otherwise, by looking at and indeed, a colleague, Herman, is right, these two laws should be looked at in many elements together. I would go back to the need for judicial reform, I don't think this will contribute, and I would point out something I might have to do with that first law. That reform that Croatia must implement I think that just as much as entering the European Union must be the subject of a national general consensus because without it there is no political force capable of taking the judiciary out of that foreign country in which not only by its own fault it has agreed. I'm going back, I'm going back to the legal text, and some of the remarks I'm saying are probably conceptually so different that it might not be accepted. It probably won't be accepted, but here, I'll make my soul easier. First, a general note concerning the information of law writers about the entire legal system. In many places, it is as a condition for appointment to a function, and so in the Law on Courts, it seems to me, when it comes to advisors, it speaks of a completed Faculty of Law. Given the changes we have made to the system of respecting the Bologna Declaration, it is not a good formulation and everywhere, and I think that one general provision should be made. You should say university college, not law school. Also in Article 15c, when it comes to the conditions that a teacher must have to have in order to be appointed a judge first of some kind of Czech pride, I would say that I think it is completely unwarranted that different conditions have been put in place for those who were judges of a lower court or who may be regular professors of the Faculty of Law. I don't think, as far as expertise is concerned, we're not particularly lagging behind, are we? Also, the teacher's word is whether it was deliberately used because a teacher means more than a docent. You can be in status, even with a doctorate there is a man who for 10 years has been in the Law on Science and Science and Higher Education, so who for 10 years has been in the workplace doing jobs in the system of science and higher education without being a teacher because the teacher is the one from the docent up. So I'm not sure if it's intentional or, or maybe it's an accident. It's interesting that a teacher can contact anywhere, but for the judges of the Trade Court, is that accidentally dropped? It's missed, well, it's probably going to get better. But that's all I'd say maybe cosmetic stories, now I'd come somewhere important. First, the procedural matter and participating as a member of the Committee in these appointment procedures as a judge, I think our Committee is completely unnecessary in this regard. First, we very formally place it on the table and send it on without any decision, nor do we have any elements to make any serious decisions, and my proposal is to move the Justice Committee out of this process of electing judges because it is not necessary. I absolutely agree with the distinguished Madam Minister that she would have a slightly different concept of "DSV" if the constitution allowed it. And that's where I return to this issue of national consensus. It is precisely because of the autism that has somehow ruled the judiciary that if I were to be able to create such a thing, then I would probably have a "DSV" in which, if not for most of them, at least half of them would have people outside the judiciary. In doing so, I may also think of representatives in the Parliament but even more teachers, lawyers and members of human rights organisations, but it is a matter of constitutional change and I am aware that this is not working. What bothers me is that, the fact that education contrary to what we might have suspected from the preliminary examinations of the past law is not an obligation. She's the only obstacle. You can't advance if you haven't educated, but someone who's in judicial status doesn't want to be educated has no sanctions. I would have introduced it as a strict measure if it didn't meet certain criteria. Second, there's no sanctions. Okay, she may be political, but for the situation when someone falsely and incompletely reported, he reported his property. That's something I think we should equalize all the officials. In that obligation, we bear sanctions not only politically but also others if we have made such a misstatement, so there is no reason not to bring it to the judges. What it is, is likely that the public will be maximumly irritated that in a situation where unfortunately "DSV" is recognised as one of the elements of covering certain bad occurrences in the judiciary, let us remember some cases where, contrary to any judge, I would say personally and reasonably thinking about judicial responsibility are not resolved, so the secrecy of the proceedings is being introduced. The public's off-line. I think it's something that's politically bad, and I think it's very bad for both the judiciary and it's going to contribute to raising a new curtain and a wall between the public, the public and the judiciary. Furthermore, in Article 26, looking at it together with Article 31, it is likely that... Nomotechnical error again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shall be stated: if the authorising applicant has proposed, in the request, an adjudication of a restrictive measure, the Council will decide without decision on that request. But the former text talked about a temporary distance and it probably turned out to be a confusing part of the text, so I guess that's going to sort of work out. One word here seems to me like a small law, but with actually personal in my court of law not good consequences. I think that the gap between the public and the judiciary will increase even more and that in some way, this exclusiveness that probably puts the judiciary between itself and the public in response to a number of criticisms, and of course I don't think for a moment that the public or us or the professors or anyone else would influence the trial process. So it won't contribute to judicial reform at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34060	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34061	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. The HSP Club considers that it is another draft law belonging to a group of worse legal solutions, and the intended objectives or achievements will not be obtained by this Act. It is indisputable that the Judicial Council should be independent in the choice of judges that means, without any political interference, whether it is an executive power, whether it is a legislative authority. And the basic criterion of the Judicial Council for selecting judges means at all levels must be individual expertise, professionalism, honesty and patriotism. As long as we are in this important area, and it has a direct impact on the functioning of the judicial authority in Croatia, as long as we do not act in this way, we will have no security, and as long as politics interferes, we know for ourselves since 1990, even to this day, politics has always had its fingers tied to the choice of judges. Some were replaced from 1990 to 2000. You, then, were also returned during the former government either to the prosecution or to the judiciary and therefore, as long as politics has no impact, there is no improvement. We know for ourselves, I don't know if that's justified, and in this case, we had a case of selection of court practitioners. We know for a fact that there were a lot of media signs that the minister had openly gotten rid of her, interfered. That's what I'm saying, I don't know if the speculation is, but all that's said is such arguments and all this says is that we have to remove the policy both from, both the executive authorities and the legislative authorities to interfere in the choice of judges and therefore should give full support to the Fate Council, choose people who are also honest, honest, professional, professional, patriot, who will first of all be in the interest of the functioning of the judicial authority in Croatia and of not picking up on some principle of nepotism, this, that or that or everything else. Therefore, we do not agree with this SDP solution either that it should give more power to the minister. Maybe it's as long as we make the rule of law work while the laws start to apply then they'll be safe and as long as they reach the butu they'll probably be able to have more power. But in the current situations as the government has acted so far in this work and as it now operates, we oppose it. We also oppose the secrecy of the procedure. Why the secrecy of the proceedings in this part? We know for ourselves that we're getting out of POE all the other day in the paper, and now we're going here. And there are state secrets, there's not much of a secret here. And I don't know why such solutions are proposed. I'm just going to say the most important things that are related to this article 4. I don't think there's any reason to reduce the number of members in the line of attorneys and professional professors. I mean, what's that for? I don't know. Does anyone want to get rid of it? Could be that one. When you reduce the number then it means someone can be such a connotation. Who's he trying to get rid of? Yeah, but I'm not saying that's intentional, but when this is how it's supposed to be, then there's no justification I'm going to automatically think about it by argument acotrario means someone's trying to get rid of it. Because there's no valid explanation or valid reason to do something like that. And this particular part of us also agrees with the fact that conditions for selecting judges and everything else had to be in law courts. Not this law. And that here you will need to make links related to this remark that we have done in the law on regular courts. Especially that case about property cards for judges, that part of the action to administrative authorities and other situations so that there must be a proper connection. In order to also take radical measures if such similar cases are necessary. And this, too, for university professors, it's not in my opinion that the HSP club is justified to put 20 years for them when in many things they're far more professional than someone who's been through the whole part can be and doesn't have to be. But according to that, a valid explanation. Therefore, we are expressing a reserve according to this bill, and we are not clear on what the achievements are. But I say politics must be legislatively thrown out of the appointment of members of the Judicial Council because it was also done by the former authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34062	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34063	One little correction to an incorrect quote. My colleague said here's what the executive authority has done about this problem so far. The executive power in the Republic of Croatia is that one such curiosity and rarity is unlike all the countries of Europe, and many others and beyond in no way interferes with the choice or legal power to interfere with the choice of tight procedure or decision-making or the progress of judges. And that seems to me that you're about to change right now, right on this trail that you might be criticizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34064	Honorable representative William Herman. HNS reps' club PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34065	Mr. President, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that the proposal for this law is an attempt to create a higher one, a better normative legal framework in which, then, the element in this normative legal framework that we call the judiciary will function more successfully. And the judiciary works successfully when it provides a simple feeling but indeed fully defined sense of legal certainty. Or even easier said when the social situations in which equality before the law is guaranteed are simply happening, and contrary to that, all where a more equal situation would occur before the law than some other situation should simply not be known. If that is indeed the case, we will be very pleased because it will simply avoid situations where some are a little guilty and are not guilty. Let's remember the conversion, remember the revision, let's remember it seems to me that 80 percent and more of the items that have been audited, so it turns out that it's actually not legally done and then nothing. What actually happens with that at all, and how can you actually talk about legal certainty if it does not happen in that area what is needed. Of course, it does not happen among other things because the State Judiciary Council is the body that selects judges however and any of the most responsible for the human resources policy that happens in that area in Croatia. And the other circumstance that also handicaps exceeded the normative legal framework, and that's simply except for this first one that some of them are guilty, so they're not to blame and so on and so on to some corner of the situation where we're playing. That, in particular, some in the local environments in such a position, they seem almost fantasizmagorical, that they will never answer and that even the media is showing up. They say there are some people in some local environments who simply can't answer whatever they do. And beyond that, I can only answer if they're suing themselves. Believe me, there are these situations, and now, let's say, one such person of an unknown name might still be able to answer. Because she sued herself. But what we want to say about this very bill is that we think that these amendments and amendments to the law on the state judgment council are cosmetic. And an attempt to ease the mood of both professional and general public because of the total dissatisfaction in the judiciary and, of course, the part of the judiciary where this relates to the action of the State Judiciary Council. It is interesting that the opening part of the proposal for a law on courts is already saying that the new Law on the State Judicial Council should be worked on. This is not happening, but there are amendments and additions. And of course what we want to specifically warn about and I will say more about it that it is very important to avoid the issue of the appointment of judges being integrated into an integral part of the law. There, even in the context of the opening part of the draft law on courts, it says it should be avoided, and then that is exactly what is happening. Very interesting. So there's not a lot of newspapers, so we're allowed to make a suggestion and call it cosmetic. These newspapers are a reduction in the number of members of the council, from the ranks of university professors of legal science. And a lawyer. Next, the integration of the bodies on the conditions for the appointment of judges and law in the courts in this law and the final establishment of a Council of Suspensory Procedures. It's more or less a newspaper. If these are some of them, they suffer serious complaints. The provisions so far in the conditions for the appointment of judges will, in particular, be regulated by the Law on the State Judicial Council which is in preparation. Once again, I insist that this is in the light of the draft law on courts. It is simply this kind of politely said how usually from Slavonia when the remarks go, that nature is mildly contradictory. Now what you wanted to say with that is hard to say. However, we hold that the material material legal and nomotechnical solution is not recommended because the logical and integral part of this law is moved into the realm of the law governing the issue of the functioning of the body, which suffers from its draft serious and justified criticisms and domestic and foreign professional and general public, bodies that are exposed to serious criticism of inconsistency, politicalism, non-transparency and political, to underline, instruction in making their own decisions. It should be borne in mind that exactly the State Judiciary Council is responsible, we will repeat, for the extremely poor humane policy of the appointment of judges, which has often deviated from the criteria of expertise and education, on behalf of criteria which are certainly not part of democratic practices, even less democratic traditions. So the second paper on reducing the number of university professors and lawyers from number 2 to 1 has already been commented and let me read about it too. And we don't think it's really this reduction of numbers just fine. Which means now this general place isn't good. Of course it's about people first of all professional, any professors, or lawyers who don't come directly from this system that's called, more freely put, simply the judiciary. And by doing so, he manages to enter one, one necessary, very necessary vertical not subjection, but creating a more positive atmosphere. So, not those where a colleague decides that the same colleague depends in many ways on what's in the State Judiciary Council. And of course that's not a good situation. More colleagues talked about it today, and I think that no matter how many excuses are made, the objection will be fine. Even the minister, if I'm not mistaken, has shown that this relationship, that structure should be different. Well, come on, if that's how you almost unanimity manifest some kind of will to do something in that direction. But not only does it not seem to be taking on, but it also reduces what I called a possible improved atmosphere in the work of the State Judiciary Council, right? So instead of two lawyers one, instead of two professors one. And on the other hand, we get a pay phone intervention that says, and it would be good if the Constitution lets us go into a completely different structure. There is another decent Slavonic remark, that it is mildly said, contradictory. On the contrary, it is a unilateral claim that more control is sought. And we actually heard that. The following newspaper is about a tight procedure and Article 25 if I am not mistaken in this bill that creates, in addition to everything else, to say the secrecy of it, or to create a legal framework for the secrecy of the procedure. In an earlier solution, that confidentiality of the procedure, the strict procedure for determining responsibility, may only be done if the judge himself in this direction has shown himself and requested it. Now that secret is simply there. We don't think that's good. We think that we should allow the public team before we get there very often, so let's say, almost as a rule, that a certain human destiny is so clear that a certain lynch has already happened, and now it's an opportunity to use something in this very strict procedure of determining a strict responsibility, I'm going to call it a tribune, but in fact a clear point of which law, i.e. the legal system guarantees, where a person can say something contrary to what has already happened through the media lynch. So it's very difficult to justify what you've suggested, because it's not usually on the trail of opening up to the public of justice where it can be, and especially not in the sense of preserving the integrity of a particular person when it comes to this particular situation. We are also not sure that the best solution is this three-member council. It reminds me of other times, you know, when you can come to this kind of committee maybe even create relationships and create such an atmosphere, and we just don't think it's good. Here's the final. These remarks are of course well-intentioned. They want to point out first that it is a cosmetic amendment, that it is a lack of penetration in the whole framework that should have been followed necessarily by this proposal for a law on courts, and then it seems to us simply one alibi proposal. And we finally think that there has been a lot of this because of the criticism of the Council of Europe, which is good, but then these criticisms should have been accepted in the way that these criticisms did indeed seem and made the State Judiciary Council finally stand as one solid anchor that would enable what is said forward, so legal certainty, individual legal certainty, simply everything that belongs and without a general place of good influence of the rule of law. A grip called reform in the area of justice should indeed have political will. You should have more than that will that only weighs the level of demagogy. If there's anything for this country, but without patheticity, it's just a matter of justice. The judiciary is a matter that should not be a referendum in front of Europe, nor should a hasty day, two, three before the decision is taken, and a famous mytomonic on the 17th, but the judiciary is a current issue which should then, if it is indeed a political will to reform thoroughly and it would not happen that it is then heard from this pay phone that a judicial reform strategy is being prepared or has already been prepared, and on the other hand, here it is entering some rather significant procedures. So whether it's in too much dialogue with the reform now or not, we simply can't know. The common sense says that first without this mythomanic relationship to everything that belongs to a European rather rational relationship, a document called a strategy should first appear, and then after discussing the strategy and the adopted strategy, decide to make a clear political will for every possible direction in the right sense of that word for the same reform. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34066	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34067	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with those who think it's good that there is an amendment to the Law on the State Judgment Council. But I agree even more with those who think the proposed changes are not enough. And because of the fact that the State Judiciary Council is now the most responsible for the disastrous situation we have in our judiciary. Both the choice of judges and the evaluation of their work and the establishment of a system of values without which no judiciary can function properly and no judge can be measured and directed if they are not available. For that reason, allow me two things. First, after a period of need for a revolutionary State Judicial Council, in which similar judges were brought and worked according to the criteria of political similarity, not to mention some other criteria of similarity which are not just political nature. We received the State Judicial Council, which was in line with the President of the Supreme Court, which was to go according to the criteria of full independence of the judicial profession, the judiciary and the State Judicial Council, and the situation in the judiciary remained the same. What does that really mean? This means that the thing that is to us as a state, as a society at this time, probably one of the main priorities with the economic issues that we have in society, must be a priority in society what to do for the judiciary to really reform and that we have a fundamental feeling that the laws passed by this House will be properly implemented and that the judgments that will be adopted will be passed in a valid manner and that the courts will be passed. If we don't have that feeling, and we don't have it like most citizens don't, then, of course, things can't work out well. Now allow me one thing. So if we've tried both model and model, conditionally speaking, both Zelechin and Crniæev, and if it turns out that neither of them has changed that state in the desired direction, then I think we should go in the third direction. As you go in part, but much stronger and much more determined. Judicial reform is not simply a matter of strict procedures, but judicial reform must be a matter of a total social engagement, of a total social effort, and in this sense allow me, as some have covered the needy criteria of political likeness, so today some are covering the Montenegrin criteria of judicial independence, and there are no courts and there are no courts, and this should be interrupted. Because this country has earned it, its citizens have earned it and this House has earned it in view of what it does and what it does. And as we have not earned to be called guilty or not guilty in this country, so the Minister of Justice is not guilty of anything wrong with this country's justice. I'm sorry if we have to be guilty then I agree with those who say, then let's give her the authority to be found guilty, not to have the Supreme Court, to have a State Judiciary Council that will make decisions, which will actually be responsible for the situation in courts, courts and judges, and the Ministry of Justice will only have nominal responsibility, and practically no responsibility to affect how the judiciary will act, how it will treat the courts. From a series of examples, we could see that the Ministry of Justice remained virtually powerless when it wanted to do something in a series of courts and a series of judges for which it was not only established that they were not worthy of judicial professions but that they were doing various things that were illegal. So there were no questions about judicial ethics, or the profession of judicial ethics, but simply the question of legality. Therefore, if Ms. Minister and the Ministry of Justice, Mr. President, can be nominally responsible and publicly called for what is wrong with our courts, and we here as a Parliament should be called also so that we fail to ensure that the laws we are passing and that we do not pass valid laws, then forgive us, then the matter should be directed to the right address. So if it turns out so far that the principle of so-called. The independence of courts does not work because it is acting by means of the hand mechanism and because it acts by means of a mechanism of mutual protection, mutual indifference and maintenance of a situation that is inadmissible then it merits serious social engagement and a serious reform cut in the judiciary. In that sense, allow me to do the following. Therefore, regardless of the proposals concerning the consolidation of the criteria for verifying the validity of the work of judges and courts by means of strict procedures, election procedure, etc. you in your first intention actually intend to increase the number of judges in the State Judiciary Council, and reduce the number of those who represent society outside the army, in fact you are self-minding your own intention. You will create space, open space for people who have proved unworthy and in a number of cases of unworthy judicial professions, and you will not open space with a wider social impact on the work of the State Judiciary Council, supervision and control of the work of courts and judges. What do you mean, secure? So you think that the same people whose work we are dissatisfied with, who have thousands and thousands of cases that went into obscenities, you think that the same State Judiciary Council that is against the motion of certain courts to punish themselves with a certain penalty, and then the whole story comes down to fines instead of more serious sanctions when it comes to serious violations, like the case of a judge in Rijeka, I mean the judge of a particular judge, this State Judiciary Council decides what, for a mild penalty of financial nature, as if it were a private engagement, as if it were someone doing damage to his own personal car, and not to the fact that he's actually disrupting the legal order, legal values and bringing insecurity amongst the citizens. Such a State Judicial Council cannot be a guarantee that we will have a serious reform and for this reason Madam Secretary of State ask that the Minister be transferred to a serious state, social intervention requires that for another reading of this proposal we have a different proposal on the possibility of social intervention being present in the composition of the State Judicial Council. It is not a matter of mistrust with the court profession, according to courts and people who do their job honestly, but it is according to the practice so far, it is according to the fact that the conditionality of the Crnic model has not produced any results. I'm sorry to say this, but that's the condition. People have once again hidden behind the independence mechanism of a court for behavior that is inadmissible, for a work that is inadmissible. And if we don't secure an adequate mechanism of control, surveillance, but in the very composition of the State Judiciary Council, then the strict procedure can't be and will not be a guarantee that it will be done. Another thing you would like to say by referring to the elements of your colleague Gajica's discussion on the proposal to amend the Law on Courts. We have serious difficulties, and on several occasions we have spoken to the Minister of Justice, with the Prime Minister, in order to conclude in the end that we are actually talking to people who have a good will to respect some of the laws that are in force in the state, but that they, in view of their position and their ability or are not allowed or able to do anything. The Prime Minister is laughing, the Minister of Justice, in a serious sense, can't do anything about it, in what respect. It's about confirming the choice of judges. On several occasions, it happened to us that in return environments the only candidates who had not been chosen were simply because the criterion was old, then it is better not to have a judge than to have someone who is a returnee in that environment. And without any adequate explanation, it happened that the judge was not elected for Vojnic, with no explanation waiting and repeated re-election for the Court, for what? For what? Because the criteria are in place, I'll feel free to say what ethnic nature is. Then it is thought that it is better that there are no judges, that the courts do not function rather than that minority members participate in it. And if people who should have regard for the nature of their work for the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and do not have, then and so fiercely apply the criteria of dignity to others but not to themselves, so that many people cannot get a license on the right of the National Minority, nor can they perform such a responsible function because someone assesses that they are not worthy but do not apply it to themselves, and there are members of the State Judicial Council and in this composition that I do not speak of the other person whose dignity I doubt at the very least. And so my proposal would be that, first of all, as far as this article is concerned, the composition of the Destiny Council is concerned, just to create space for a wider social impact, as was the case with colleagues who spoke. Secondly, I would also suggest that, in Article 15c, when we already cite all these elements regarding the election of judges of the Criminal, Municipal or All, trade courts, county courts, etc., that an item should be referred to which the appointment of judges should take account of the consistent application of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. And this is not to favour members of national minorities in this business but rather to allow those who may, if they are able to, if they have qualifications to do that job, cannot do that job, therefore not because of favouring, but because of the fact that such practice, the present elements of avoidance or refusal to appoint minority members to these honorable and important duties are avoided. If Madam Secretary of State, the amendments to this proposal and the preparations for the second reading are going in this direction, I am sure that then the SDSS Representatives Club will be able to raise their hands for these changes, but if they remain in this limited reach of reform, then of course we will not be able to do so simply because it is not enough to change the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34068	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34069	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the HSS Club won't support this bill for a few reasons, I said a few introductory sentences when we talked about the agenda point that was before this point, when there was talk about the law on courts thinking I wouldn't be able to talk about this, so I'm going to do it again for a second. In fact, we believe that it is not only the State Judiciary Council that is to blame for the bad staff situation in the Croatian courts, we are also guilty of the Croatian Parliament, so we are guilty and therefore the Croatian government, and there are a number of factors that are guilty of such a situation in the Croatian judiciary. What I'm saying is I agree with the the thesis that too little is the power of the Justice Minister in relation to the judiciary and I agree that it should be increased but now the point is that we are where we are and that we cannot discuss what is not the subject. I agree that the constitutional authority of the Government in relation to the State Judicial Council in terms of proposing, i.e. the adoption of the law as it is, but what we have today, we have one independent or only wish for an independent state judicial council, we have a very important body that determines human resources, the whole human resources problem, which is responsible for the entire personnel problem that is politically dependent, we have to admit, it's not something that should be so wrong, and it should change that. You know, if it's about to change something and it's said that it's increasing the number of members of the State Judiciary Council from the judge's ranks, and it's reducing from the professor's ranks, you know, I don't think it's a topic, that it's not good, and it's not really important at the end. It is a cosmetic change which is not important at the moment and does not discuss the legal position of the State Judicial Council with its powers and responsibilities. We expected such a regulation and did not expect what was offered here. I don't think it's good, it's really not good for the professors I'm here for in this case, I don't know what it's going to be, if we want to court judges, we want to say here you're going to be there, so we're going to have better quality work of the State Judiciary Council or we're going to have a better staff composition and it's going to produce it and that we have better staff in the judiciary I don't think that's going to stand anywhere and it's not going to contribute to it. There's another thing I want to say, and I've said that before with the criteria for selecting judges. First of all, the HSS Club stands at the point that the criteria should have been left in the Courts Act, because, by nature, the criteria for selecting judges should be in this rather than in this Law, secondly, I would like to say that this is not as important as the criteria themselves are important. I will repeat the same thesis, we today, despite the weaker humane situation, still have some extremely high criteria, and I will repeat what I said that the person who wants the Supreme Court candidate has to do according to a passed judicial examination, although it does not appear under the Law on Courts, so I also suggested that I also suggest to the Proposer to fix this part, have a 15-year internship in judicial affairs. And now I'm going to tell you one thing from your practice a few years ago, you actually had three generations of people in courts. You had one generation of older gentlemen who knew a lot, couldn't physically do as much as younger, you had a middle generation that dragged and you had that youngest generation that those older colleagues taught you to do, I think it worked the way it did, and it was good. It seems to me that those middle-generation people are missing and that's where we have a problem. And whoever you ask in court if there's a problem with those who draw, they'll say of course there is. What do I mean by that? If, of course, you have a criterion like this for those 15 years, and for university professors 20, I don't understand why 20 for them. If it is 15, let it be 15, I agree that the 10-year criterion is quite enough to acquire all the necessary experiences, and especially according to the legal exam that you can be the judge of that highest court of law, which is not even mentioned as a regular court in the Courts Act, so that should be corrected. So these are all the reasons why the Croatian Peasant Party Club will unfortunately not support this Act. We suggest to the Proposer until the second reading to fix this text, to cast out this part which by nature things should be in the Law of Courts. And we suggest more courage in writing this law, maybe even the whole text wouldn't be bad at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34070	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the gallery representatives are visiting the Croatian Parliament representatives of Poland, Poland Assembly, Poljsko Seima, who are members of Croatia, Polish Friendship, Parliamentary Friendship, who are visiting the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian-Polish Group of Croatian Friends with the Ambassador of the Republic of Poland, and we welcome them with our I'm setting up a recess, 15 o'clock follow-up. [[Applause]] The first in line is the Club of Representatives of HDZ, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. It's the 13th 28th hour. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34072	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is one out, so the law package that the government is proposing to us about solving the situation in our judiciary, and I don't think it's a question when we analyze the situation in the judiciary that we can't, of course, be satisfied with the overall situation. This is best seen by our people when it is necessary to protect a certain right, when it is necessary to analyse a certain right in court proceedings, in fact people see how long it takes and very often they don't even actually go into proceedings because they know in advance that after the time in which they will analyse this right will no longer be significant or actual. However, I must say that in some large and powerful reforms and some dramatic change in the situation where in a year or a shorter period, all of this will be better, I must admit that we do not believe in such measures, that we do not believe that it is not possible, but I must say that I believe what we have actually been doing for a year and what we started before. There are certain changes to the laws that have been reported in the past year, what the minister stated is that the number of cases that have not been resolved has been reduced by 7%, I think it's a good start, and that's one piece of information that should encourage us in all of this that's happening. I believe that in this year, 2005, this procedure, it would actually have to be bigger, because if it didn't increase then we'd really have to think about some other changes related to procedural laws and to the Law on Courts, but these 7% of the reduced cases that were not resolved are important because those measures we took at the beginning and that's the most important that the President of the Supreme Court can, by his decision, give those courts that were buried in cases that could deploy those cases to courts that didn't have that number of cases, I don't think that this came in the last year, give the results that could. And I expect even better results in 2005. And that's why I think that all the measures we've brought to justice so far, that all the measures are good and that they've given quite satisfactory results and that in the coming years we can expect even better. And in this package we see that at the point before we discussed the Law on Courts, that we also offer certain improvements, even greater powers are given to court advisers, which will naturally contribute to a number of resolved cases. In front of us, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council is, in fact, a narrow area in relation to that Law on Courts but also very, very important. What this Law offers is that we think it is good, as a matter of fact, is, as most importantly, being introduced, given the composition of the State Judiciary Council according to this proposal still 11 members but 9 members are elected from the ranks of judges and not as it was thus far 7. We think that this means that the practice that it is a direct profession in this judgment council means that it is even more represented than it has ever been, and we actually support this measure. As far as the newspaper is concerned, we think that this is a good measure because we simply see and that the public is much more sensitive and that there are much more stringent proceedings against judges. As we can see, a judicial inspection is being introduced so that in some future we can expect perhaps a greater number of actions compared to judges who are not consciously and hastily doing their job. And that is why we really think that this one measure is very rational and very reasonable that these proceedings do not have to be led by a panel of 11 members, but that this can indeed be done by the fact-finding procedure itself by one council of three members and, finally, after the whole procedure is passed, propose a decision to the whole panel of judgments. Also, we think that this extended deadline for starting a tight procedure from 2 to 3 years is also welcome, because there are a lot of these cases that have been opened lately. We're actually going to strengthen my mind and my conscience and my responsibility and the up-to-dateness of the judges. The only thing we think is that we should discuss a little bit, and since the Law is in the first reading, we have an article 8. The law, which amends Article 18, says in the procedure of appointment and resolution of judges, the Council will obtain an opinion from the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On the Justice Committee we have had and we have very often these points, and I must say that this is really turning into a mechanical giving of a positive opinion for all those judges that the Ministry's letter states that they meet the conditions to be judges and we, as a Justice Committee, actually without any major further discussions on whether it is okay or not to give a positive opinion on everything and in fact the State Judiciary Council decides again on who it will be. Now here in paragraph 2, we have a saying that: in the process of appointing judges, the Council will obtain an opinion from the Justice Committee only for candidates who meet the conditions for a judge. And in paragraph 3, the Council will take into account the opinion of the Judicial Council, so it will not even take into account the opinion of our Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament and we think that this is the first reading in order to even consider the institute that we give as an opinion. And two, if we are already giving it, it should be said in this paragraph 3 that the Judicial Council will take into account not only the opinion of the Judicial Council but also the opinion of the Assembly Committee on Justice. It's some kind of remark that I think we should discuss by the second reading and the law as a whole of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support with the hope that in the coming years we will have these, in fact, even better results, even better percentages of resolved cases because I think we have created a good legislative framework for such things to happen. And until now, what has been passed in the area of justice and the Law on Courts and Amendments to the Law on Land Books, we have brought to the last session and the Law on Mandatory Relations, we have also adopted amendments to criminal laws, I think that more or less all these changes have come well and that our judiciary is definitely going in one better direction, but it will only satisfy our people when they feel it in the proceedings themselves before the courts and I don't think we can expect such a quick change, but in one good process I think we have entered and that, in any case, after a few years, when we look at statistics, we will certainly have to have much better results. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law with this remark on Article 8 and we believe that this should be installed in any case in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34073	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34074	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am now listening to a fellow of Bosnjakovic's MPs whom I greatly appreciate who says that our judiciary is going in a better direction and that we have entered a good process. On the contrary, on the contrary, our justice system has become increasingly intolerable. And that's exactly why the law doesn't need to be changed. And that's why we need to change the laws. So the DSV Act needs to be amended as well. But dear colleague Bošnjakovic, not in a way to lag the existing situation, to compliment on that judiciary when it does not deserve it. It is necessary to amend the DSV Act on the trail of judicial reform, and I'm afraid this is not a step forward, this is a proposed law, but a step back. And we all agree that something needs to be done. And the support that the minister has, I have already spoken with the Law on Courts, this support of all clubs, the entire Parliament needs to be used for more radical moves. That surgical knife must cut deeper than this is intended. I believe that one of the generators of poor justice is the State Judiciary Council and the way the State Judiciary Council does it. I also highlighted some examples of judges during the debate on the Law of Courts, and the DSV decides on them. I mentioned the case of Judge Domić, half of Brač is registered completely illegal with an obvious, obvious intention to please two people. What can the Minister do? The Minister has no tools, she has no instruments. She could have removed Judge Domic from the court's post as she did. Well, now the Domician is no longer the president of the court, but she's a judge. The judge is still. And who can get rid of her? DSV. And does he solve it? It doesn't resolve. So I mentioned that unfortunate Widdick from Crikvenica. There's a man in custody. The same things Domichka did. So has the State Council resolved him? It's not. And when will it be? You don't know. And will he? You don't know that either. So they have a judge in Sibenik, eight years of his criminal trial, and did he get rid of him? It's not. Because you know what DSV says: "Yes, and we need a powerful verdict that he's guilty." And when will this judgment come to pass? Maybe never. How the courts work may never be because things will go out of date. And then what will the State Destiny Council do? They will say, "But listen, we will not deliver him. He, they'll welcome the pension. Retirement. After all they've done in the judiciary without being relieved by the State Judiciary Council. That's, dear friends, that's unacceptable. It is unacceptable that some judges behave like that, and it is even more unacceptable that those who decide whether they will remain judges do nothing. The DSV must protect the reputation of its judicial functions by its decisions. And he's got to get rid of a judge who's got a reputation for that judicial profession. Judges are in every democratic country, I dare say caste. And they have to be. They have to be. Judges must behave with honor. Not only do their work professionally but they must protect the reputation of the profession they are doing with their overall conduct. Why? So that the citizens would trust these judges and those courts. Well, I'm not going to get in the way some judge is judging. Of course I can't, nor can I, or anyone else. But I can get into it the way they behave. I'm not going to comment on how Judge Loza tried the case he was in charge of. But the fact that a judge allows himself to come to Thompson's concert, take off his T-shirt, and happily use it as a vittle, so forgive me, it's inadmissible. On Thompson or Bajagin or anyone. As a judge can't, I don't know, go to a minivan and dance on the table. He can't. He can't. Because if someone does what the DSV has to do? Resolve him. Emergency, emergency procedure. So we deal with this kind of DSV. They make no decisions in things that are obvious, that sting eyes, that offend the public. Because that public and those citizens pay those judges with their tax money. And they have the right to expect these judges to work first, to work enough. Second, to work in quality and third to behave in accordance with the duty they perform. That's what the public has the right to ask for because the public pays them. Well, as far as the State Destiny Council is concerned, why do I think this is a step backwards? Look, they decide on judges, and now from 7 to 9 they are increasing the number of judges who will be in the eleventh Council. Well, that's completely wrong. Well, these seven weren't radical enough, either, but they were protecting their own branch of justice. And now we're going to make them even bigger at nine. So I can think of how it'll work. It is an invitation to all other judges who think irresponsiblely that they are just acting like Judge Domic, like, like the one from Crikvenica, like the one from Sibenik because absolutely nothing will happen to them. Their only punishment will be that they may be suspended, and as we can see in some cases, they will be paid for for eight years. Well, they're de facto rewarded, not punished. They don't have to do anything, they get full pay. So there's no minister, but here's her co-worker, and I suggest we think about this. Now let's do this in the first reading, but until the second reading, the DSV should put together quite differently. Reduce the number of judges. General judicial officials at 1/3 DSV, 1/3 to appoint this Parliament, 1/3 to appoint associations. And then maybe that DSV would make a little faster decisions that it has to make, and maybe then those decisions would be a little more reasonable than they are now. In the meantime, this situation cannot be further supported or such legal solutions can be accepted because they will not be corrected. It's gonna get worse and worse. And someone for this condition has to take responsibility, so when I talk about courts, you know who has that responsibility? Politics. Politics. The government and this Parliament. It's our responsibility that this DSV doesn't look what it looks like and not act the way it behaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34075	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34076	I want to replicate my fellow Stazic because I cannot agree, however, that this is a step backwards. I really said in the opening part of the exhibition that we can't be satisfied and of course we're not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary, and it's not really some wisdom to find out because that's what all our citizens see when they come to court. Many people do not even come to the facts because they know that the actions will last long, and then after this is over more questionable is the right that they will exercise or protect. But I have to say that I don't believe in some rapids in some dramatic turns and that something of some sort can be resolved very quickly. Because it failed even before the government, and it went gradually and it changed certain procedural institutes that actually led to certain improvements and certain preconditions to speed up procedures. And that's actually what this government does, and in this year's time, we've actually brought in a series of measures, so, among other things, it means changing the law on courts, which is precisely the 7% reduction in the number of pending cases. That's not enough either. Because if we're going to mathematically mean it takes us 15 years to figure it out. But last year since it just started to apply somewhere in the second half of last year, last year actually wasn't enough time to apply it. I expect and so should be in the coming years that these powers that the Supreme Court has give even more significant results. This is about individual examples of judges we could really talk about for a long time, but I think that both proceedings are being conducted before the Judicial Council, so against those you mentioned are also criminal proceedings. So I think it's all processed. As far as the Judicial Council is concerned, we can see that if we were to compare the number of disciplines against judges back a few years, we would see that this is a much larger number of cases, so responsibility is being tightened, after all. Still, there's something going on, and I'd like time to actually show that I'm right that it goes significantly for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34077	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Nenad Szazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34078	I would be very happy if you were right. Very happy because that would mean that things are getting better. And that this bill will also fix itself once it becomes the law. But that's not how it's gonna be. Because when you tell me you're running a tight procedure, they're running. But let's see how long they've been running. Let's see what final result they're running with. Well, there's no record of that. None, and what we're doing here now, we're increasing the number of judges instead of reducing them. That's why it's a step back. And that is why, with all your hopes that this will mean repairing the situation in the judiciary, I am afraid of my colleague, Bosnjakovic, that it will not be so. I understand that a parliamentarian from the ruling majority should be helped to praise his government's proposals. It's completely understandable to me, but this is too serious a matter and there's no division here among the clubs. There's no division about it burning to the nail. That thing came to an end. And that a colleague of Bosnjakovic must take swift and rapid action. Because I'm afraid it'll be too late in a few years. So let's encourage all the cups to support the minister, encourage her and the entire government to become more sharp and radical in the problem of the creepy situation in the judiciary. To deal with radical measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34079	Thank you. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34080	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must express a bit of a surprise that this draft law amending and supplementing the law on the State Judicial Council is above all the idea that the conditions for choice and for the resolution of judges are prescribed by this law rather than by the law on courts. First, for formal legal reasons, it would be difficult to do so since the Constitution explicitly states that the work of the State Judicial Council is governed by law, when it comes to the State Judicial Council of Article 123, therefore the conditions and criteria for the selection of judges cannot be regulated by that law, I think it should remain in the Law on Courts. And that's where it's in the legal code for judges. Another remark that I must say, in principle, I am actually opposed to the election and resolution and, in particular, the strict and every other responsibility and judges are being shut down within the framework of the profession itself and are increasingly fleeing from the public. And more and more is trying to get the waist to choose itself, and to make its own bills and answer. Let me explain. For example, Article 4 of the Law suggests that the current number of judges would increase from 7 to 9 who would be able to be elected to the State Judicial Council. Dear colleagues and colleagues of all 11 would mean that there would be only one person from the ranks of university professors and lawyers. And that would also mean when it is calculated that three-quarters of the State Judicial Council would make members judges, and so far the applicable law is two-thirds. Half the majority of the votes make decisions, and so they make a significant decision about it. And then the question arises, why do you close it further within the profession and increase it to three quarters. I remind you of the additionally difficult fact that we have a very important fact that this law states in 17a. Article 7 and 17a respectively. that the opinion of the Judicial Council on candidates for judges is drawn up in writing and contains an explanation of the fulfilment of the general and specific conditions for the appointment of a judge. As well as in 18 where it is spoken and the Council will take into account the opinion of the Judicial Council, the State Judicial Council must take into account the opinion of the Judicial Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Court law. And that's what you have to do. Therefore, it is practically necessary for the Council of Judges to give an opinion to which the President of that same court is located. And he'll also make an assessment based on what he's doing, and actually these outsiders don't even have to be there. If you add to this the third fact that the issue of carrying out a tight procedure is, among other things, completely excluded, and among other things, predicts that a tight procedure is being implemented for a variety of things. And for things that are the most severe forms of breach of judicial duty, then the question arises, and why would the public be excluded and why only the State Judiciary Council would make a decision about what it is. We, even in the process of judging citizens, do not exclude the public but include the public, and exceptional cases are when the public is excluded for the protection of young people, marriages, and so on and so on. Moreover, it is very interesting that an additional solution is that, for example, the judge may be away from duty I will quote. "if a criminal offence has been brought against him for crimes for which a prison sentence has been found for over 5 years.". And now while he's away from duty he's entitled to two-thirds of his salary. I ask how our public will react if there are such cases and if in such cases he recognizes such things, when someone, and in particular we have had the opportunity to listen to cases in discussions when we practically have a situation to conduct proceedings after 7.8 years when and before courts when the judges themselves are in the process. I'm sure that if the judge in the criminal proceedings is free of guilt, then of course there can be no other way than it has to be paid off as everything here and envisaged and so forth, but it can't be brought into this kind of behavior. I must also say that it is very interesting that the law itself in Article 15a has prescribed that judges be appointed and resolved under a condition and procedure that ensures expertise, independence and dignity for the conduct of that judicial duty. We have, though, where it's mentioned in the resolution if he were to be sentenced to prison, so not to any one, but to that prison that violates the court's dignity, then he's a judge, then he couldn't be elected, or he'd have to be resolved. Very interesting. In many other cases, if a man is sentenced to a prison sentence of 6 months and longer than 6 months, he cannot do regular work in administration and some businesses. There should be a new qualification here before that if it is a matter of injury, a dignity for the performance of that duty. So that question should be put on the line once and for all. I don't think this could work. In particular, it cannot go into the institute to appoint and resolve it on the basis of expertise, independence and dignity without any words being prescribed by the legal conditions and criteria which must be met, which are then considered to be fulfilled and that it meets the dignity of the judicial function. It simply shows that the whole bill of law is not done. And in this respect, certain things should certainly be done and completed, which should be prepared by the second reading. Of course, there is a quite interesting solution which is also related to Article 6 or Article 17, which states among other things, in the procedure of giving an opinion, the Judicial Council may request information on candidates for judges. And now, it's those who are out of court, and now suddenly the Judiciary Council is regulated in the Laws of Courts. In that Judicial Council, the Law on Courts provides for an opinion and procedure, etc. for everyone else except this one. Now, for this case, one time we've got something new. Why he's running away, in fact, to keep the whole set of institutes mixed up. One time in one law, another time in another law. And when everything is summed up, then we come up with something that's a little bit surprising, that an opinion obliges one to whom it's addressed, to consider it, yes, but it doesn't have to accept it because it's an opinion. However, we here have for the first time the opinion if delivered by the Judicial Council, and it must be delivered within the prescribed time limit, says here clearly within 60 days. This opinion, not only is it compulsory to consider but it also says, on the occasion of a decision to appoint judges, the Council will take into account the opinion of the Judicial Council and the provisions of Article 72. So not only does he have to discuss the opinion, but what is practically related to that opinion and decision-making. It's no longer an opinion, it's a respected fellow, if I may say so, the previous actually consent, it's just wrong, it's called differently, and it's basically hidden behind it. In practice, the Court of Justice which gives its opinion and which is assessed by the President of the Court on the basis of Article 72 of the Future Law on the Court of Justice of the Candidates shall, in practice, decide on the conduct and operation of the State Judiciary Council. I must say that, at the same time, the idea of the State Judicial Council itself as a body which would be free and independent from the executive and legislative authority, which would at the same time ensure the choice, appointment and resolution of judges in line with the fact that the judges are first and foremost tried on the basis of the Constitution and the laws and the evidence presented and, of course, be of quality, professional and worthy of the job. Now, that idea itself then becomes groundless and, in the end, practically de facto, we have created legal assumptions by which the Judiciary Council will actually make the real choice, and the declarative decision will be made by the State Judiciary Council. I think that such solutions are not good, that these solutions lead to the closure of judges and courts in the courts, and it is not good for long-term looking either at the judges' side, let alone for all of us, because more and more will be, whether we want to or not actually want friendly and other connections within the courts and what is particularly important to the obedient mentality of the lower ones in relation to the higher ones, because it will have an important impact on what assessment they will get and what data they will be given from which they are made and do their opinion on the Court Council itself. Because this Court is actually the same members who have to provide data on the basis of which the opinion is written in court, the President of the Court and, of course, the Ministry. I think that this is not good and that, until the second reading, these two laws should be examined very well, arranged primarily to protect the freedom and independence of the judicial authority in order to achieve its fundamental function, to ensure the quality of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia, and to protect both the legal and all other interests of our citizens and other legal entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34081	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34082	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This must be one in a series of laws that the government is bombing here at the Parliament in order to address the situation in the judiciary, or to implement a draft reform of the judiciary. The Law on the State Judicial Council was passed in its first form back in 93. To date, it has been changed several times, complemented by amendments and additions and by a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the numerous observations made by the profession and the general public on the work of the State Council, the Proposer is seeking to regulate or amend certain settings and laws. In the first row, the composition of the State Council introduces the conditions, lays down the conditions for the appointment and termination of the office of judges, introduces a Council of Discrimination, determines the level of salary for judges in temporary separation, etc. Article 4 Proposal to amend and supplement the law, the Proposer proposed a new composition of the State Judicial Council in such a way that it counts 9 members from the ranks of judges, one from the line of university professors and one from the line of lawyers. Here we can ask whether the composition of the State Judicial Council should be changed at all and given that the present composition of the State Judicial Council ensures the implementation of the constitutional provision that most members of the State Judicial Council must constitute judges. If these changes had already taken place, it might have been necessary to consider not increasing members from the ranks of judges. Why not, for example, be a representative of Parliament as part of the State Judiciary Council. This law also prescribes conditions for the appointment of judges, which has so far been regulated by the Law on Courts. This is explained by the fact that in this way everything related to the appointment of judges is regulated in one place. We heard in the debate that there are a lot of objections to this, and the Justice Committee believes that this should remain further regulated in the Courts Act. As a representative of the Committee on Justice, I can say that we have discussed some of the effects, the lack of legal solutions and possibilities, the need to improve the criteria for the selection of judges in the process of appointing judges. The unequal practice of the Judicial Councils has been observed in determining the candidate's proposal. It would therefore be necessary to improve Article 1(1)a in a way that, in addition to meeting the general and specific conditions for the appointment of judges, the criteria for the work of the Judicial Councils, which would ensure that those most professional people, people of their working ability and the results of their work will be selected from amongst the candidates reported. The Committee on Justice also held a lot of discussions on the role and role of the Committee on Justice in the process of appointing judges and raised the question of how to define the role of the Committee. The experiences of some European Union countries that we have collected just to compare the system show different examples. In most of these countries, the influence of parliament and the president of the state on the choice of judges is not negligible. The Justice Committee should give an opinion on candidates by me in a similar way to the Judicial Council, i.e. take care of the professional moral qualities of the candidates. This opinion should have an opinion of the wider democratic public, the electoral body and should not be based on political views and on the designated members of the Justice Committee and should ensure autonomy, the autonomous law of the State Judiciary Council in the choice of judges. Here, I would take this opportunity to propose an addition of Article 18(2) of the Law in such a way that the State Judicial Council is obliged to take into account the opinion of the Justice Committee. Only here in the debate did we have examples of whether the Justice Committee should be involved in the choice of judges at all. I believe that it should be included but provided that the criteria for the work of the Judicial Council are more detailed and that the opinion of that Committee on Justice should be taken into account. The draft law also introduces the Council as the authority of the tightening procedure. It would be a three-member body that would carry out the procedure, and the proposals would, by reason, be submitted to the State Judicial Council. It is assumed that the Proposer decided on this solution for the sake of efficiency and economicity of the procedure. In order to make this newspaper as clear as possible, I believe that a more detailed and clear regulation should be made for the Council of Stylish and its composition to be determined by the State Judgment Council. I believe that a new Article 23 should also be added at the end of the proposal of the Law, which would prescribe transitional and final provisions. I think that it has been missed, I think it should also stipulate that the procedures for the appointment and resolution of judges and the strict procedure will begin before the entry into force of this law by the regulations which were in force until the entry into force of this Act. I think it was missed in the bill. And in the end, I think the Proposer will appreciate the many quality remarks made here and that second reading will be better quality and more acceptable for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34083	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Rajko Gajica. Ratko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll comment on four things here. The first question is the credibility of the State Judiciary Council. I think it's a pretty widespread opinion that the State Judiciary Council or its credibility has broken or it hasn't even gotten it. That's where I'm gonna say this. I have the impression that the State Judiciary Council is talking or thinking about its jurisdiction to appoint judges, and is not considering its responsibility for the state of justice and these two things seem to me connected. In that regard, I'm going to say something different from what was suggested, that this relationship that is now proposed as Amendment 9:2 instead of 7:4 I don't think it's worth it because if we take lawyers as the same brand then it's actually a ratio of 10:1. It's precisely because of this credibility that I'm talking about and responsibility for the state of justice, I think that we should give space to a wider social public, and I think that this relationship in the system should change, not as it is proposed here. Another thing I want to say. I agree with what's already been said here. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In which they give the conditions for selecting judges, I think that matter belongs to the Law on Courts and that it should actually be installed there. If she were to stay here, then what we've been saying here today is that in that place, that obligation stems from the Constitutional Law on Minorities is put in place. The third thing I'm trying to say is, it's a question of the role of the parliamentary committee. I'm joining what my colleague Ivas said just now, which is if we have the role of the Parliament's Justice Committee in the appointment of judges, then she can either be effective or let those roles be gone. I think this is a divorced solution that only serves to cover something that isn't credible. And the fourth thing I want to say here is, it's some of it seems to me to be a termological error. I'm going to point to Article 9 in which you have the term chosen, etc. Then something will be punished for unwarranted failure to do business. This unwarranted indiscriminateness seems to me like a raving term, and you have clear terms messy, unconscious, illegal, etc. There are other examples here. I think it would be a good idea if it didn't happen in some sort of past time when we've been fixing some sort of termologically bad solution here. It's also embarrassing for the promoter and I think this is in this regard to be well cleaned up. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34085	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I also believe that the time has come to amend and supplement the Law on the State Judicial Council after the last amendment, and the last amendment came after the Constitutional Court made a decision on 15.3.2000, which directly stated that the former DSV worked contrary to the Constitution and the law, i.e. contrary to the purpose and meaning for which it was established. So that's exactly where the Constitutional Court's decision, which I think is historic for the development of our judiciary, is because not only are some unconstitutional provisions of this law that have been amended in the meantime and that we are now changing the Law on Courts but they have been struck, I would say the guidelines for further development of the judicial authority and judicial reform. However, these changes that have taken place on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision show that little in this period and become brakes of further development, that is, it is time to imagine what was happening in practice, which is something that may have caused public interest, but also public disapproval. So this is the time to answer, and this law, the bill of law... which is in the first reading and I welcome it to be first in the first reading, because in any case until its final appearance it will look certain that some changes will happen, supplements that will be and bold and that will be able to respond to some current situations, not exactly the current but in any case the recent ones, which have been happening over the last few years and which simply the law has not had adequate answers. So, how to get to the independence of the judge, but also how to allow the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best to advance but how to allow those who unwittingly and disorderly do their job that is not up to that function to be thanked by the judiciary and away from their ranks. Lately, it has been mentioned that the public is very critical and it is rightly opposed to the judicial authority and this is for the simple reason of the daily unpleasant experience that meets precisely in contact with the judicial authority. And now that it's up to us to improve this situation, not to laminate maybe on individual decisions. So this is exactly the moment and time that we, as a legislative authority, must give such an instrument to the judicial authority in particular and to our own State Judicial Council which will then fulfill this task that is important and important to him. In the time of political pressure on the judiciary, which has left such a deep trail that the late judicial authority will fully recover from it, it is time to imagine in which composition and who can decide all of this on the reception of candidates in the ranks of judges who are going to decide on their strict responsibility, on the solution as the most difficult tightening measure and on their promotion of their progress. In any case, one is a positive trend that tells the very fact that by 2000 not only did they quit in one way or another, but that those who remained, who were not touched, wanted to build a career elsewhere. However, we have a recent trend that exactly in the judicial power want to return those who have in the meantime found themselves somewhere else or in public notation or attorney's office or the state's attorney's office and that is certainly one sign of a step that shows that there is no more politics, in any case I would dare say... dominant and say there is no influence on the judicial authority. But how to enable quality, so how to prevent an internal dependence which is also fatal to the development of judicial authorities and if we look at the parallel legislation in the European Union but also at these transition countries that I have mentioned, they have no longer entered the European Union, but have had the same problems as we have and a very similar system as they have advanced in this respect and how they have worked out and built this system. So we see that it is not predominant who decides at all and whether it will be in the State Judicial Council with a naturally dominant number of judges sitting on this or that number of law school professors, either it will be lawyers or it will be representatives of the executive or legislative authority but in any case it is something that falls into your eyes, that you do not have a system where a representative of the executive authority first of all does not decide or does not give his vote or gives his opinion. We do not have the same legislative authority, there is no such case in Europe, there is no world. Neither in Hungary that had a very similar system, but in this sense they have changed certain provisions, and parliamentarians, the legislative authority, in one way participates in this process. It seems to me, therefore, that it is not good that the legislative authority does not participate in any way. If this is already the composition of the State Judicial Council, then it is a step, i.e. a sign that we must give greater authority to the parliamentary committee, the judiciary committee. Which, in this way, exists, has already been highlighted by several colleagues, and here is one of the Committee's own presidents, that it is a strange role for the Justice Committee itself to play on this issue. It is simply delaying this procedure and it does not give, or has not elaborated, the criteria and criteria on which the Justice Committee could actively participate in this process of selecting judges, their progress. And that is why it seems to me that the most attention should be given to those provisions that speak about the terms, the criteria, the criteria for progress and the choice depends not on whether any candidate will be sympathetic to this or to that member of the Committee on Justice or the State Judicial Council, but rather on the fact that these candidates already know who will be chosen because he is better, because he has been more educated, because he participated even as an educator, so these are all criteria and criteria that can be specified more precisely, I see some of the attempts that are but should be made one step forward and precise, therefore, because we have seen that even such criteria as they are very similar and in the present situation in practice so that the Judicial Council is giving such an opinion, simply that the vote 3 votes were for this, 2 for this one, and neither of which is less right, nor can be verified by the state, nor by any decision of the state. I therefore urge these criteria to be transparent, that candidates themselves know in advance which of them is best, that in such a way that this system, this judicial system in its most sensitive component, acts in such a way that it can be efficient, transparent in the everyday humane combination, that is also the best answer to those who can put some objections possibly in the executive or legislative authority or in the court itself that it has made it more difficult because of this or that particular candidate. It should also be pointed out that we have great judges, judges who are brave, determined, who do not give up and who serve in the discipline of their profession and the Republic of Croatia. There are few, but there are few, but they are the ones who pour faith, trust, and hope. But such colleagues are not popular among their colleagues, these are said to be some who are fidgeting, this one is adhering to too many norms, and such may be difficult to promote in a senior court, I think if it were transparent and clearly said that the judge and there are many of them, who are achieving the norm and 180% that there is nothing to ask for that candidate who meets the 80% standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34087	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. I would also like to point out that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council should, of course, be supported and, in particular, the provisions of Article 14, which amends Article 23, which prescribes that they are under the strict procedure of the authority of the tight procedure under the State Judicial Council and the Council of Discrimination. So, a new special body. And here, undoubtedly in a more quality way than the previous legal solutions, regulates a strict procedure, and it is now being developed in a more efficient and faster way, and only a tight council appears as a novelty in the Law on the State Judgment Council. The Council is based on a legislative solution consisting of presidents and two members, who must always be judges, and who are elected by the judges of the State Judicial Council and whose jurisdiction is also prescribed, so that they carry out a cumbersome procedure, determines the facts and makes proposals for decisions. The proposed amendments and additions shall, in a good manner, provide for the procedure for the procrastination of the discharge of the duty in such a way that the Council, without delay, has to decide on..., so I repeat without delay, obviously in terms of the urgency of the procedure itself, indicating that an appeal against a decision on temporary distance is brought to the Constitutional Court within 15 days. The appeal itself does not retain execution, and the same provision provides that for, therefore, it is a temporary distance from the duty of the judge to have the right, so while he is temporarily away from two-thirds of the salary. I personally believe there is no need to reduce the number of lawyers and university professors in the State Judiciary Council. The proposed amendment to do so and from two representatives to one in my opinion does not constitute a quality shift, on the contrary and several university professors, and also a lawyer is required to be in the composition of the State Judiciary Council with that prescribed respect for relations always in favour of judges. As regards the years of work experience in relation to the appropriate training as a basic condition for the exercise of judicial duties, I am of the opinion that age limits, regardless of the type of court should be reduced, that 10 years of work experience is enough to control the work itself and the profession. However, apart from these, let's call objective conditions to elaborate further on the other quality of judges as candidates who would come first in the appointment of a particular person for a judge. First of all, I mean the expertise, the morality, the reputation in the society of which the judge lives and works as well as the results of his work so far. In particular, I would refer to that provision in the Law that the university professor must even have 20 years of internship, work experience plus, of course, proper exams, so it is the person of a university professor so he can be appointed president, a member of the Supreme Court. Now that we put it in context what this person must first achieve and how much time he loses to be a university professor, then plus another 20 years really is the question, at least the principle level of whether at the most active age of life he will be in a position to take on such a role or to act as judge. Finally, I would accept those opinions that the existing role of the Justice Committee in the process of appointing judges absolutely does not correspond to the role of that committee in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the responsibility of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and, in the sense of proposing judges, should be resolved in another way, something has already been said in the debates of their colleagues, I would not repeat myself. And this is what I'm done with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34088	Thank you very much. State Secretary Snježana Bagic, final review, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34089	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It seems to me that this is one of the days that the Croatian Parliament rightly devoted to the judiciary by discussing these two laws, recognising this also the need to give within its work cycle as a legislative body or political body its contribution and contributing to what needs to be done to change the situation in the judiciary, in order to improve it. I personally prefer the word reform, more say change or improve the situation and share the opinion of those who in this debate today said that we cannot be satisfied with the situation but that there are changes, that they may not be so clearly visible and recognized in the public but there are certain shifts present, these may be small steps but lead us to the ultimate goal. And that's why I think that only persistent, systematic work on it can actually contribute to returning citizens' trust in the judiciary tomorrow. And what hurts the most is that all of us who work in the judiciary or we're tied to the judiciary is that there's no trust, so citizens aren't satisfied and they should be because they only turn to the court when somewhere else they can't exercise their rights. As part of all this, because there was a talk on the reform during the morning during the debate of the Courts Act, the minister referred to it. I think these laws are just one step further, one move. I am now not talking about the Law on Courts, although these two laws are connected, but about this second text that we have now discussed, amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council. It seems to me, perhaps I am mistaken that today's debate has shown that there have been more objections, critical tones compared to this Law than the first Law on Courts. When I was thinking about hearing a discussion about it, it seems perfectly logical and understandable because it speaks of the body that appoints and solves judges and decides on their strict responsibility. So, about one body that has a great responsibility and which, through its choice of judges, actually contributes to their quality in the judiciary, that only those judges who truly deserve it by their expertise, dignity, and even honor, as a person do in courts. How, now, the question is how to ensure this, or how to ensure that members of the State Judiciary Council are as we wish. So persons who are also high-quality, professional, totally impartial and independent and who will not succumb to influence and who will indeed choose the best from the candidates. Clearly, the interest of the Parliament is clearly recognized and important because this High House is the body appointed by the members of the State Judicial Council. And thus, through their choice, determines their quality, their dignity, so that they contribute to the overall situation in the judiciary, i.e. human fill-up, to their personality. Therefore, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can say that we will really seriously consider all the remarks made by this House in view of the changes foreseen in the composition. There have been criticisms and criticisms here that this is a step backwards due to the reduction of the representatives of the attorney's office, the law school in total numbers, members of the State Judiciary Council. It certainly wasn't the proposal's intention, it was exactly the opposite of actually allowing any possible influence, unsuitable, influence, if I could say so in forming a body that would appoint judges. The debate shows that we should think about it thoroughly that there are both completely different and conflicting opinions, so that the goal can lead us in the opposite direction. What I must say is that although I, as someone who comes from the Ministry of Justice, like support or encourages the ministry to be braver, of course it should and may be, but for that, it must be within certain limits that will not endanger the independence of the new judicial authority. When I talk about the independence of the new judicial authority, I mean that when a judge makes a decision, he will be completely independent and independent and work in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and his conscience. Everything else is subject to control, judgment, judgment like any other profession. And in that space I think there is and should be observed and possible changes in terms of composition and method of appointment of the State Judicial Council. So I say we will seriously consider these remarks and proposals relating to the composition of the State Judicial Council until the second reading. There have been two more rounds of objections that may not be so important, but by their total they will contribute to improving the law and that is whether or not it should be within this Act which is now proposed whether there should be conditions for the appointment of judges or whether they should remain in the Law on Courts. It seemed to us as applicants that there was reason to remove these provisions from the Law on Courts in the Law on the State Judicial Council in order to be visible in one place what conditions are to be met by someone who has applied for a judge to be elected by that body by the State Judicial Council. And the third round that I consider to be a good incentive, which is a strict responsibility, so the Council, this State Judiciary Council, decides on a strict responsibility. Why? In fact, the practice has shown a way of working... that it is like a large body of 9 members of the times of the trom, and that when deciding at least on a strict responsibility, there must be a way to speed up the tight process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because there's been a lot of criticism here about the work of this segment of the State Judiciary Council on the strict responsibility of judges. So why. Because sometimes it shows that despite the expectations maybe the public might... The State Judicial Council may not have been effective or swift enough in deciding the firm responsibility of judges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this, perhaps, is the kind of work being thrown into the shadows of all the work of all the other judges who are truly responsible for doing their job and where these cases are then caused by their public intervention or by their obvious violation of the rules of conduct and by the conduct of the judge. and diminishes their work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I really thank all those who participated in the debate. The Ministry of Justice will not only seriously consider objections to both the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council but will seek to send the final draft of the law to the procedure as soon as possible, because if I am not mistaken, the current composition of the State Judicial Council shall expire somewhere in July of the month and, by my own court, may need to adopt amendments and additions to the law so that this House of Justice is not on me, however, but that the Croatian Assembly, which should ultimately vote this Law, should allow the future composition to choose by what clear criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34090	Thank you to the secretary of state. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find the proposed conclusion has been made by 83 votes for, four abstentions and 13 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34093	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I am just trying to defend the Law I wrote last summer, in September during events that actually triggered the amendment of this Law. Then it was Bechtel, later on it happened, the Ministry of Defense. When we look at governments before that we will see that none of them were immune to serious failures precisely in these affairs and the aim of the bill I have made is in fact the actual parliamentary control of transactions concluded through exceptional procurement concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is about taxpayers' money and if we are already making a budget, we spend days and days in the debate and we do not control the way the Government spends money. This one or she totally doesn't care. In fact, I am pleased that this debate has arrived at a relatively peaceful time without the current affairs of that kind, and I hope that the law will be able to discuss it peacefully. I'm not going to read this part that you could see in the opening part. I'm just going to say two models that are referred to as the possibility of control. I think it's really a possibility. It is the first to refer to Article 13 in which the supplement is proposed, with the exception of obtaining the prior consent of the Government's Public Procurement Office, which must be supplied at the same time as the application is submitted for consent and the Croatian Labour Authority. And if that body takes a negative opinion, then the Public Procurement Office is reported. The second possibility is somewhat milder, but it is also control, and if applied, it would not be possible for MPs as well as the general public when the public’s public affair finds out how money was spent, which is to deliver a quarterly report for all authorised purchases for the past period. Then, of course, a debate can be held. Something is a milder form of control, but control certainly is. And one change that is also important, which unfortunately at a time when the internal debt does not rest is very important. And that is that jobs, state affairs cannot be concluded or concluded with an offerer who does not pay personal income to his employees. Who cheats on employees and, of course, cheats on the rule and the state, the question is in what order. The answer I got from the government is that the law is not being accepted because it's in the making of a better law. That's probably right. Each of us MPs has little chance of making a better law than the government can with all its bodies. But I'll remind you when the government went into that percentage, namely, procedure. They say March 31st, then it is later mentioned in August 2004, when a working body was established to draft the law. You have to admit it's been a long time. I believe that there is a thorough study of European legislation, that the law will be quality and comprehensive, but there is no reason not to accept such changes while the final law is pending. If so, I offer two alternatives, if one of you offers a third quality as much as possible, I'm willing to accept it as a proposer. It's not unusual to change a law like this. I will remind you here that in the European Union this, in the European Union it was almost a practice so I will tell you here Sweden has changed this Law eight times since 1996. In the past few years, Slovenia has changed the Law eight times. It is therefore very difficult to control public procurement. These are two possibilities, but it's definitely the one I'm proposing the most important one. Control the spending of taxpayers' money while the existing law exists. Then we have ethical committees, and then we have committees investigating. It would be easier to settle it by passing a law one of these two alternatives. Either by reporting or by requesting the approval of the parent body. I read somewhere that this is not common in neighbouring countries, that there are no such models where Parliament has decided on public procurement. Well, it's possible, but our affairs weren't small either, and they weren't uninteresting. We can make a difference. If you were to adopt the proposal that I am offering, one of the two alternatives would therefore be reporting or asking for a previous opinion, I am sure that with state money or how we politicians like to say taxpayers' money would have had one more serious and quality way, and that the business with the state, at least the state could not be concluded by those who do not pay workers and the same state as its costs. My colleagues and colleagues here have been waiting for this law for quite a long time. It doesn't matter to me whether a proposal I made is accepted, or whether it's going to be a proposal from the government as likely as possible. It is really important to address the issues of spending taxpayers' money or at least those that the state does without a public tender. I assure you, if we in the local self-government could do business without control, there'd probably be a breach there, too. But trust us is well controlled unlike the state level. And then that's a bad message. I'll remind you that we're in a shamefully high place by corruption. The lack of quality law always leaves the possibility that it is unfair actions or often, for political purposes, imputs someone that such actions exist even when they are gone. This is the possibility of getting to the bottom of it until the government's law arrives. Thank you very much and I'm open to better suggestions than mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34094	Thank you. The Committee on the Economic, Legislative, Finance and the State Budget, European Integration. I'm opening up. Does the government want a representative? He's gone and he doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, HNS Representatives' Club of PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34095	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Although there are alternative solutions in this bill and amendments, which is a very rare practice we will support, I personally support the very fact that an open debate on a serious law that causes a lot of problems in its application, but depending on who is applying it? And two controversial or extremely important moments mentioned by these changes. This is a category of exceptional procurement which allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia exclusive right of exceptional procurement until no other participant commits to the application of the manner and type of public procurement other than the Government of the Republic has it. The solutions offered by either prior consent or regular reporting would likely indeed lead to the fact that the number of affairs, suspicions and later tails, by applying such an institute which the government had given to a large number of unclear criteria and subjective assessment of whether there were also reasons for exceptional procurement or not, would likely improve and then at least in Parliament could discuss or give such supervision. Secondly, the state went into the protection of its rights and no one who did not pay VAT can be a serious bidder through the application of this Act, but when it comes to paying salaries to the employees of those bidders who regularly appear in the state tender, it was not necessary to protect so that the part is also controlled, and then we have a common situation that the taxpayer's tax obligations are met with a net little debt or delays. But most often it turns out that the largest number of those who arrive in such competitions are getting jobs and later it is revealed that they actually fulfilled their tax obligations properly netly before they lifted a certificate in the tax office. But that the question pays normally no one asked them. And I am particularly undermining this proposal that makes the obligation to pay regular wages as there is now an obligation to pay taxes regularly is on the trail of what we were seriously thinking. I would, and there are no representatives of the government so I wouldn't talk about it for long because there won't be any effect on anyone hearing what perhaps in that text that the government's preparing should also consider, is the next. A large number of units of local and regional self-government warns throughout the application of this law that the implementation of public competition and procurement under this law would not be such a problem that the part of the state that is authorised or competent to resolve possible complaints under the tender procedure. If you have a serious tender especially for the purchase of technical equipment, for example in healthcare, medical devices and equipment, without 6 to 8 months you cannot complete this tender. Only one appeal if you are filed with someone, so it's just that it's about the bidder, whose tender documentation was missing half the necessary documents, will block your contract signing process. At least for three months. At least for three months. Last year and in January of this year unused funds for decentralised functions in health precisely from this title was extremely large you can check with people at the Ministry of Health, that much of this money had failed because simply because a large number of complaints in the competent state body were unsettled in the law provided for by the deadline contracts could not be concluded and the purchases had failed. So then I appeal to the government and maybe they'll read the phonogram from this debate, and that that part of the law that speaks of deadlines, the way in which the objection is resolved, and the conditions for the right to submit to the complaint really need to be redefined in a way that these objections must be resolved within a far shorter period of what is now. If we don't want the public procurement process to last longer than half a year. And we know that after the financial year has passed, those funds simply fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34096	Thank you. Dear Representative Velimir Dances Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34097	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community advocates' club will not accept such a bill. And that is because it will resort to the government's opinion, regardless of what age it is already at this point for four months, and unfortunately today there is no one from the government to hear what stage the MPs are actually making amendments to the law on public procurement. That, according to government statements, will contain the principles of the public and transparency of the prohibition of discrimination and equality of all participants, and the speed of action. I am sure that this will be in line and that this will make it possible to comply with the material legal rules relating to new matter with European Union legislation, and will reduce the number of exemptions that will be in application of that law. But I really think it is necessary, regardless of what I repeat, that there are no representatives of the Government, both from this pay phone and on behalf of the HDZ Club, to give the Government the knowledge and to say that it is very important for both our market and our general market behaviour in Europe and with European partners. And that if such a law leaves little doubt that the abuses of certain provisions of it are possible, one credibility is lost on both domestic and international markets, and I repeat again we will not accept this bill because we will resort to the government's opinion but also to the opinion of all the working bodies that have discussed this law. But we call on the government to contribute to the debate on its own as soon as possible and finally give us this proposal of its law where these questions will be convinced, which are in agreement with what the legislator of this law proposes to us. And that we're going to make changes to the public procurement law. Which will correct certain injustices or illogicalities that occurred when the law was passed in 2001. So the HDZ Club does not support the draft law of Proposer Đurđe Adlesic. And we'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34098	Thank you. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac Club of Representatives of the SDS go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34099	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will take this opportunity from my colleague Adlesic to amend the Law on Public Procurement, to draw attention to one fact that I think should be taken seriously into consideration and this is a matter in the first place of Plitvice National Park and then other national parks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to which the Law on supply relates and in the current circumstances seriously restricts their economic development of their economic business, and of course the development of the landscapes and areas in which they operate. Namely, the situation is next. In the area of Plitice National Park, which currently covers some 10,000 inhabitants, which in direct engagement makes it an indirect addiction to the park. Which extends to two counties first and then to Lika Senjska and then to Karlovac. We have a series of laws, including the Law on Areas of Special State Care, which should further promote development in this area, especially small entrepreneurship, cooperatives, agriculture, livestock, but one of the laws that restricts this is the Public Procurement Act. If the Plitvice National Park, which is a public institution, and which the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia wants to obtain for the purposes of its business, 95% of its business is actually profitable and is focused on profit from it is, in fact, indirect exports because it is about tourists who come to the area. If they want to do what they've been doing there for decades, and that means there's one side of that park to invest in domestic rural communities and other capacities they can't do it. And vice versa, if they want to buy goods from domestic peasants, whether it's meat or something else, or fruit or vegetables, they simply can't do it because large suppliers who usually come with products frozen by either European close or further countries are so competitive that this area, or such a policy simply doesn't stand a chance. And that's why I would take this opportunity, Mr. President, unfortunately there are no government representatives, so obviously we're going to have to do it another way. If in the case of Plitvice National Park and then it should probably be seen whether other national parks that have that kind of economic activity are determined or exempted from certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act, or that Plitvice National Park is treated as a company. And that they have the freedom to decide in ways they can't do it if a public institution. People who return to this area of exiled Croats who have returned and return Serbs who are in the area, people who are trying to restore what can be restored there, and create assumptions for a sustainable life of their own and the whole of that area, I think they deserve such attention. And I considered it so necessary that this initiative of colleague Adlesic, who is obviously coming, now that the initiative comes to some extent premature but comes as a predecessor to all that we will actually have to do both the Government and the Parliament in negotiations with the Union. Where the issue of public procurement will be one of the central topics in the negotiations. And regulation of this issue in our domestic legislation is also one of the important issues. But while we're doing it, I don't think we should wait for the government to be sensitive to the fact that this is a state such as Plitvice National Park and make it possible for people, encourage them, encourage them to return to that tried-out form of life organization, fostering livestock and agriculture and cooperation between the Park and the people who live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34100	Thank you. Honorable representative of Walter Poropat, on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34101	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on public procurement is an important law for our market, not only is the European Union's commitment to making as many public procurements as possible through a public tender, but also because of the efficiency of achieving the most favourable price and selecting the best bidder. Of course, such a law must not leave even the slightest doubt that some of its provisions may be misused. The promoter of these additions, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, who is ahead of us, has proposed additional instruments that support credibility on the domestic and international market, but ultimately does not give a solution to the problems that have so far been under way by implementing the law that is in force. In this debate, given that the proposal is complemented by the law in the regular procedure and in the first reading. And since we know that the government is also preparing changes and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, I would like to refer only to some shortcomings in the applicable law, and this concerns the justification of allowing units of local and regional self-government, but also to the Republic of Croatia, the availability of real estate directly to public institutions and public companies, with a remuneration of course at market value. And when it comes to building objects according to spatial planning documentation in cases like the following. First. Construction of facilities and utility infrastructure devices. Second. Construction of facilities and devices of transport energy and similar infrastructures. Construction of buildings for public activities, health care, social care, education, science, preschool education, culture and sports, fire and the like. Building buildings for religious and humanitarian needs. For part of the unbuilt land needed to form a building particle and the like. There's a question. Why in these cases with a direct contract? The direct contract because of the fact that the construction of the facilities listed by the Institute of Public Competition has no purpose, because the very purpose of these facilities excludes the possibility of reporting to multiple bidders, so the public tender is carried out for the purpose of fulfilling the legal form, and it represents a significant cost of money but also time, which is very important, and time to units of local or regional self-government. For additional security of sales by direct contract, it should be installed that the draft contract on the availability of properties owned by units of local and regional self-government is delivered before its signing on the preliminary opinion of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, which would provide additional security to avoid disputes, but also assist smaller units of local self-government not filled with professional legal professions. So, as I have pointed out, since this proposal for a law is in the first reading, with the proposed argument, the addition of the Public Procurement Act, which gives sufficient elements to the credibility of the public tender, we at the IDS Club consider it necessary to consider other arguments in order to finally obtain the Public Procurement Act which introduces order in the field of competition, without injure the principles of transparency, the public and freedom of the competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34102	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, Club of HSLS Representatives, DC, LS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34103	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. And this proposal by colleague Adlesic shows that representatives by who knows which times are much more lively, much more sensitive than our government itself. Simply this bill is actually extorted precisely because a lot of things have been going on in the past, and that's a colleague in her opening exposé and said, no matter what the government does, that governments have been very often acting quite casually and that we actually acted as the public only when we faced an entire series of affairs. This last eye that came back for who knows which time it was the Bechtell affair. The press, the media wrote for a week, two days, and after that, nothing really happened. And now we hear again that the government, that the government, will go with its bill of law. Now we have to ask, I mean, what has to happen, how much does it take for a government that has a whole team of experts to write one so important bill. And now, when MPs come out with their proposals, then usually the parliamentary majority lets itself say that in preparation there is something much more quality and that will finally solve the problem. We can't just let something like that happen, because just because we're constantly working in the ambience of affairs, scandals, then it's not, it's not good at all. It's that space that we leave lobbyists, when lobbyists rub their hands and just let them have their influence where and where bigger than they normally should be on some normal occasions. It's even more dangerous when these lobbyists come from the ranks of politicians, so then you just have this weird symbiosis that many of our politicians are also lobbyists and then you don't really know when it starts, it stops their political function, when it becomes lobbyic and when it's worth jokes of faith. That's not good from two facts. In this way we actually bring exactly a picture of politicians, that is, our perception of the public about us is not great, and with full right it is not great. But on the other hand, that is precisely what makes it possible to attack the economic substance of this society. And that's what we're really doing here and there, crying out how to spend taxpayers' money, how to actually go with the budget in a rather casual way. It is mentioned, I don't know, in 2003 that in this way it was distributed with 1.4 billion kuna. It is said that only Croatian highways and Croatian railways are somewhere over 200m euros last year. That's a hell of a lot of money. And on the other hand, we show one exceptional sensitivity when you say that I don't know, what my colleague Poropat was talking about, to units of local self-government where you have the same ones that allow such things to happen at the state level, when there are approximately a lot less resources in function. This means that our law, that this law, the existing law on public procurement and functioning according to that Latin... , i.e. what is allowed to the state is then simply trying, training this strictness, some control is being trained in units of local and regional self-government. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] I'm saying it's definitely not good. On the other hand, I say we should commend this law. I really feel the same way as one, as a necessary interstep and ultimately one, or a very small number of parties have such a number of logistics and with such insight at all, what is really happening with our budget, what is happening in reality, but what is certainly good is an attempt to make that political volunteerism that I say very dangerous, and when exactly the Institute and this Public Procurement Office are just pretending that they are then not being punished, certain or local self-government units or certain institutions, certain institutions are being punished and some others are being allowed to do so. So this element of control and supervision that it will be is offered some alternative solutions, but I say it is very important just on the one hand to change and perception us in public, in order to protect this economic substance of our budgets that are also part of actually political agreements and compromises, but all of which is when we are so sensitive and we need to be sensitive then it would be very important that this synergy and demonstrate exactly by adopting a quality proposal for a public procurement law that will exactly rightly prevent this type of lobbyism in the policy that we actually lived with which we are still saying that we are in some transitional pre-political time when, for some time, the political function is used for exactly what I say we had the opportunities to experience "Bechtel", a third operator and that we are not talking about it. So on behalf of the club, I will support this proposal, allow it to go to the other reading, and on the one hand I will indeed commit to the government that it cannot wait for one such very important law to be passed probably before the end of the term of office when, indeed, as far as at least our responsibilities are concerned, it will no longer benefit us. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34104	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34105	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed proposings. The SDP Club assesses this initiative as welcome. Why? The Government of the Republic of Croatia has already announced in its programme or in its performance that it will bring amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. It is also an obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to bring this matter into line with European Union standards. So a good reason to press the Government of the Republic of Croatia to see the light in the Croatian Parliament after a year and a half, since the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this bill is not positive. However, the proposer argues that in law itself, there is a problem with public procurement in the applicable law. It is simply not true, although the law needs to be completed and specified, but the laws violate people and norms are good or bad, more precise or less precise. If the spirit and meaning of the applicable Public Procurement Act were respected, everything would be as public as we like to say, transparently, transparently and accessible to public control, then there would be no violation of the laws that we here directly as we speak. There would be no "Bechtela" case, no additional half a billion kunas on highways would be concluded outside the project last year and outside the competition. But the cause is not the law, I repeat. That's what's causing people's behavior and weak public control. In fact, one of the principles of law says that law enforcement or conduct are against those who do something that the law forbids, and those who do not adhere to the spirit and the letters of law play the whole law. This is exactly what happens in the Republic of Croatia. Disrespecting the meaning and spirit of the Public Procurement Act, therefore, the state administration and the government that has huge money, and therefore the Public Procurement Act was passed, besides the law's spirit ordering or closing deals whether it was a supply of goods or services. And, of course, the current law is flawed, and it really needs to be changed. In a formal sense, the current law stipulates that five offers are required for public procurement, does not speak of what these offers must be of any quality. Even more so, the law does not oblige the invited to bids to be obvious. It's enough to get one offer and the job can be done. Of course, if it's the sense and the spirit of the law, then it becomes illegal and bad. Then it is very common to play law and the spirit of the law to deliberately fail to program or design all works that are known in advance, and then, without the need for a public competition, work is concluded and the spirit of the law is again played. So it is unquestionable that, in addition to more precise norms of a new law should work to change the behavior of spending state money. This change will not only happen by amending the Public Procurement Act but also by other regulations and conduct of those who decide on public procurement. Another emphasis on the applicable law, which is not precise enough. Namely, there are cases where only one producer exists, let's say, when it comes to remounting some larger plants, only one producer can make an offer. Then the point of the law is to ask for five offers actually is to waste time and bad management. In this respect, it would be worth predicting in the new law when the circumstances arose if the manufacturer had already been asked to do so when it came to remounting or upgrading offers but then the Commission’s offer was verified. All this suggests that Mrs. Djurđe Adlesic's proposal in this regard is a good pressure on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to maintain its promise at the time of entry into power, i.e. that it was past the time that could be tolerated that such an important law did not come into the procedure in the Croatian Parliament so that we could control the procurement for the needs of state bodies and bodies, except in order to control the spending of cca 90 billion kuna. So we support the law to go into second reading, I guess by then the government will react not only with an opinion but with a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34106	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34107	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, I would like to say that the HSS will support this initiative but not the bill itself, because we think that the concept is a little bit missed here, especially with the emphasis on a new role of the Parliament in this law, which we feel is completely unnecessary. However, particularly interesting here is the opening argument about Bechtel, where there is doubt that the direct contract in the public procurement process hides possible malfeasances and abuses, and this usually means the award of a valuable job to its close, loyal and reliable contractor, who will reroute the agreed amount from the determined price of works to a certain conto in the form of rewards to those or those in power who have set up their business. It is generally known that Bechtel was more expensive than 1 billion kunas who later received the job, and of course it raises one fundamental question in which we were to discuss it here, whether we should now advocate amending the law, and then when we discussed here in the Assembly the potential responsibility of those who allowed this job to be received more expensive by 1 billion so that we do not vote on the responsibilities of the persons who did the job and did it. The reasons why public procurement can be approached are directly prescribed in the Law and we all know that the consent of the Public Procurement Office is required. But I'm going back to Bechtel, for example. In fact, there were no grounds for a direct contract and of course the Office could not give such consent, but whether the Office has any responsibility and since it has not given its consent and since it has not responded at all, whether it has any responsibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia or for any individuals from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the existing Law and these amendments are not prescribed and should probably be regulated, not only that there is some moral responsibility something more concrete. That is why we believe that the main emphasis should be placed on limiting power and the first political ones, and then building and all other lobbys that appear in public competitions. However, the imagination of politics, the contractors have no boundaries. It's a good example of the construction lobby I'm going to explain on one example where everything's okay. The public tender opens several bidders all meet the conditions, the most favourable performer is established according to the price criterion, however, the story is not so fairytale, and it is taken care of in principle by the epilogue and all such stories. The most favourable bidder gives up the competition and accepts the next most favourable offer, and behold, this offer is higher by several million or ten million kuna for the same quantity and for the same quality of works. Of course, the most favourable bidder is not punished for giving up his offer. In fact, he's even rewarded, because it's a public secret to share the difference after he plays the role of a rabbit with that other performer who's more expensive for a few million kunas or a few dozen kunas. I suppose they probably don't share everything in half because they need to leave something behind for those who support such concepts and those who mention such decisions of course to their own benefit but to the harm of taxpayers. Is such a doubt justified and is it a good example? Is there any responsibility of the Public Procurement Office that allows such a procedure at all? Investors, whether the investor is responsible, whether it is a state, directly or indirectly, and whether one of the competent ministries may be responsible. Wasn't it logical for this example mentioned to cancel the contest, to repeat, not to make the contract happen, as in the Bechtel case, which is also characteristic. It is generally known that construction work is a particularly demanding job, however, under conditions of competition due to high value of works, due to the necessary guarantee that must be given and similar. Only a few bidders appear in such competitions. There is a reasonable doubt of the possibility of an agreement as mentioned in the above example to exclude a low offer from competition, after which the most favourable bidder gives up and the contract is concluded with the next most favourable which is generally more expensive 10 in principle and more percent. How parliamentary control can be achieved as proposed in the amendments to the law. The solution is simple. Cheapest bidder who gives up the offer can no longer compete in other competitions if, without justifiable reason, he has given up the competition. And, of course, there should be something else to pay for the penalty penalties. The proposal to amend the Law actually expresses a great mistrust in the executive power because the Government of the Republic of Croatia must request the preliminary opinion of the working body of the Croatian Assembly for extraordinary procurement. A request for prior consent should be sent to the parent committee, and the Committee will decide whether to hold a discussion on the request. In what way they will decide, of course it is not known and in practice it is almost impossible. These items would actually stifle the work of the constituency committees and prevent them from doing their regular work. The Croatian Parliament is a legislative body and should not do business nor interfere in the business of the executive authority. However, it is absolutely certain that Croatia is not the best in terms of corruption and... administrative barriers. The amendments to the public procurement law are just about to go in this direction in order to create conditions for transparent implementation of public tenders because entrepreneurs expect exactly that kind of approach from us, and we will get support safely from citizens, taxpayers because their money will no longer end in black holes in procedures and pockets of various lobbys and lobbyists. The HSS supports the initiative but does not support such a proposal to amend the Law, however, we agree with all those who have previously pointed out that it is necessary for the Government to give, within a short time, their proposal for a law that is likely to be more comprehensive and quality, to address all irregularities, in order to remove irregularities of the Law, but also from practice and to bring this legislation into line with standards that apply to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34109	Thank you very much. These clubs are over. Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be real quick, considering I've heard the opinion of the clubs. I'm glad, in fact, that no club has disputed the need for this law to be passed urgently. I understand the different remarks you made, however, I'm a little surprised that it wasn't actually determined on two control options. I understand when it comes to the HDZ Club, which has said in advance that it will support only the government's proposal because it holds that it will be more quality and inclusive. I'm glad the IDS supports that expectation of the government's bill, which he claims will be better, but I'm sorry you haven't made a few remarks, so maybe we could pass a better law. I'm sure this joint appeal, which has arrived from all the committee clubs, will, in fact, be really in support of the initiative that I've put forth, in some way, for the government to come out with that law as soon as possible. If that doesn't happen, I'll really go with the proposal very quickly, considering everything you've brought out. But I'm saying, there were really few single remarks about the resolution model, except for the usual one that my colleague Pacek told me, that it's not common in parliamentary practice, it's a fact. However, we must take care of our own country and our own economy, our own money, and neither of these events that have been happening in the last 10 years in many European countries nor in many European countries are practices, and one and the other government would have been far more significant and that everything, if something similar had happened in a country with a stronger democratic tradition. But it's good, we usually find out what's wrong today, forget where we were wrong yesterday, it's the same part of politics. I have to admit, here, don't mind me a lot of learning, because I just had a whole class before how to play a competition without extra why. Well, fellow Pecek, thank you very much, I hope you haven't been heard by many others, whom this might be instructive. I was surprised how imaginative it can be when playing the deal. But I guess somebody knows that. So, thank you all for the support, for the idea, and if the government doesn't make it, I'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34111	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Walter Poirot, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The IDS did not say it would support changes and additions to the new Government Public Procurement Act, but would expect it to go into these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34113	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first representative of Mr. Jure Bitunac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, my fellow Members and colleagues, the esteemed proposings. The public procurement law was passed in 12 months 2001 and did not properly resolve all the issues, all the dilemmas stemming from the previous law, the old law, the Act on the supply of goods and services and the admission of works. Among other things, often taking part in groups in the municipal economy, there has been a lot of objections to the Old Act on the supply of goods and services in terms of..., the implementation of certain policies on information equipment, special vehicles etc. So that the amendments that followed the existing law did not yet give rise to the way in which many entities oblige to implement the Public Procurement Act. As far as the existing Law is concerned, I personally also have a series of objections to it, especially if we are talking about Article 7, where the value of the goods is spoken of, I believe that there should be a good judgment on what to do. I would especially point out that this Law applies to the same goods, services and works. I must say that there is also a place where certain manipulations are possible, using the possibility of... similar, or related goods, to the various goods, and by doing so, the procurement that even requires a public tender can be reduced to up to 20 thousand kunas and thus avoid the full existence of the law. It is also necessary to reduce the number of exemptions in Article 6 and when it comes to Article 12 concerning direct contracts. As for the very proposal for complementarity that is ahead of us, I believe that the introduction of parliamentary control as popular as it can be for me in some way means a priority of mistrust in the executive power, and if they accepted these supplements that are ahead of us, this would mean in some way introducing their own committees into the Croatian Parliament, by or by the problem. The number of levels that should be controlled, meaning the state local, number of companies that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce's home body should address in one way or another would seem completely inefficient, and in the end we might be in a position to start dealing with something in this higher home which, by its nature, is not legislative, but executive authorities, so I can say not only executive, but also administrations as such. With regard to the proposal for complementarity on the subject of the offerability, I am also expressing Article 36 and the evidence of the ability of Article 37. I am also expressing my reserve in view of the proposal. In fact, I believe that intervention by the applicant in terms of proof of payment of the net wage is unnecessary, that in the current law it is well defined, where a bon 1, bon 2, evidence of the enforcement of obligations for taxes and contributions is required. Because I don't know that someone pays when it comes to the salaries of workers to pay for the gross part, for taxes and contributions, without paying for the net part. What is done in the economy and what used to be done in most cases is the reverse situation. This means that the net part of the salary is paid to workers, but no contributions would be paid for pension, health, etc. I personally welcome this initiative in terms of amending the existing law, but I do not see the arguments of any important reason that would in any way contribute to my position to accept the existing additions of the law, to raise my hand to them. The Government's position is to sort of comb the whole law, bring it into line with European legislation, European standards, and in this direction, I think that the Government should react as soon as possible so that this area is one quality and fair way of bringing it to an end, and where this existing Law that has its own good sides should be defined to the end. The value of obtaining the same goods, I believe, in Article 7 that it will be necessary to intervene in future amendments and additions to the Law. It is necessary to reduce, I agree with the number of exemptions in Article 6 and, in particular, when it comes to direct contracts. It is necessary to be aware that a direct contract should be brought to the minimum and only if it is of particular strategic interest to a certain level of state, whether local or local companies owned by units of local self-government or by companies owned by a state. Public tender and only in those cases if a public tender would not result in an offer that would be compatible with the existing solutions where de facto, when it comes to certain technologies, there are few multinational companies, etc., where we are de facto condemned to one or two solutions. In that direction, I believe that amendments and additions to the existing law should be made. I expect the government to react in time on this matter. And I'm going to repeat this supplemental proposal as one good initiative that will encourage the government to react quickly and in quality. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34115	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zdravko Sočković, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34116	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law supplementing the Public Procurement Act proposed by Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. Most of all, in this bill of law, I think one part is unacceptable, and that is the part that concerns the transfer of certain powers and jobs to the Assembly not that it is not common, but that is almost impossible for me. If they accepted such a proposal to supplement the Public Procurement Act, they would give up the policy of reducing paperwork and speeding up the economic process, since they would unnecessarily introduce new paperwork to the parliamentary working bodies, which is absolutely unnecessary and unacceptable. Because both the Parliament and now through the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is controlling the same. It is clear to all of us that today when there is a lack of work in Croatia, when the state's biggest investor is that the Public Procurement Act is very important for our market and the overall economic movement. Through public procurement in Croatia, around 19 billion kuna is spent annually or 12 to 13% of gross domestic product. The legislator has already stated that public procurement wants to make public procurement transparent, rational in terms of using state resources to prevent various abuses of malfeasance and to enable competition and the choice of the best bidder in a public tender. I think the current law also allows it and that it does not need its immediate supplement but that it needs its fair and consistent application and enforcement control. And go only to some changes that aren't so urgent. Public procurement regulations can also be classified in anti-corruption legislation, only the existence of such laws recently passed by these institutions already speak of our intentions and achievements to protect social wealth. A commission for the control of public procurement procedures has been established in Croatia. The commission is an independent regulatory state body that is independent in its work as courts. For his work exclusively corresponds to the Parliament and conducts the appeal procedure in public procurement. It was founded because of the need to better control legal procedures in selecting the best bidder in public procurement. The Commission shall decide on complaints lodged by interested parties, some concrete procurement procedure. The Commission collects documentation, examines the legality of work and makes decisions by appeal. The Commission's decision is binding and must be respected. A significant supervisory function is also carried out by the Ministry of Finance procurement administration, which is an independent government office that oversees all these phases of public procurement procedures from the beginning to the conclusion of the contract. The selection, with the selection, with the selected... The same office shall be authorised to lodge criminal and criminal charges in sanctioning unlawful acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Along with other specialised state control bodies, which have recently been included in the Commission and in the judicial authority, the State Attorney's Office, the USCOK with the police and tax administration of public procurement should be under full social supervision, so there is no need to attract it, there is no need to accept the proposed addition of the Law. As Croatia wants to become a member of the European Union, we must accept that there are binding rules in the European Union on public competition for the supply of goods and services, when the purchase is made from State budget or funds. The fundamental principle of the single European market is that all companies must have equal conditions and equal opportunities for participation in public competitions. As a grudge to the current law, I consider it to be a very formal procedure that requires a lot of documentation in every new case, regardless of whether it is the same customer and the same company. It would be good for the government to approach certification of the company's ability to provide evidence to a state body, but I think we often have a situation where a company has large claims from the state, so it currently does not meet and does not pay and settle regular taxes, and although it is not guilty of losing its ability to compete which I do not think is fair. I do not agree with those who claim that there is a need to completely exclude cases of exemptions from the procurement process because it is often the only instrument in the protection of domestic industry. I'll list only two examples, we'll soon have a reconstruction of two refineries of cca value. 600 million dollars. It is a great tragedy that all Croatian industry is not in a position to offer the key in the hands of a consortium and to report to the competition at all. The same case is with, say, the company's competition.. which is owned by INA and the Italian Adjip to build a platform for researching oil and gas in the sea, the Adriatic Sea, however, there is neither the entire Croatian industry capable of offering at all an international public tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it needs to be more concerned about us together in which the degree of development of our industry is particularly project houses that are the main lack of it here than to worry about whether any job will be given with the exception. I think on the contrary that we should be more kind to the domestic industry and far more used by the Institute of Exemption from the public procurement process to be able to just protect the domestic industry otherwise I think we'll go very badly in the next few years that are ahead of us. And in the end, I think that the government should be criticised for the slowness of their proposal but that it still needs to be waited because I couldn't support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34117	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Sopcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think it's necessary to accept such a proposal for a public procurement law because it only touches one segment of one section of the law on procurement and that's a direct contract. What is the newspaper in this Bill proposal is the government's obligation to report and consult a parliamentary working body in approving the procedures of a direct contract for the value of the purchase of more than 200 thousand kuna. I believe that such a change would only slow the procurement process and change nothing significantly in the quality of the transparency of the procurement itself. And the constituency body involved in examining these requirements could virtually not have been able to do any other work. I think it is much more important to define in a more precise way what conditions and for which kind of business a direct contract can be concluded with the Government's approval. This supplement also provides for the obligation of the bidder to attach a statement of orderly pay to its employees, which I agree with in principle because I find it incorrect for the state of public undertakings or units of local self-government to make a deal with an offer that does not comply primarily with its obligations to its workers and thus also to the state and units of local self-government. But I think it's only one segment that needs to be regulated because I also think that you should regulate what to do with the situation when you are practically in the role of the bidder who prepares the tender and the tender documentation, including yourself, the very institution that chooses who will do a particular job you have in the same person or in the same firm. That should be regulated, because we also had a case in the mandate of the last government that practically when a particular ministry called a tender for the competition there was a competition. Companies owned by the minister appear in the competition. The tender for the procurement process is also being prepared by companies owned by the minister and cannot be argued that the other bidders were equal throughout the procurement process. It is also necessary to specify what to do with the bidder who attaches false documentation to the competition. Mr. Pacek mentioned one problem when a cheap bidder came along and eventually gave up his job second in a row. I think there should be a certain sanction to get him out of the next tender procedure, but we also had a recent case in Ogulin during a competition to build a sports hall when a company submitted a false confirmation to the tax administration that he had settled all obligations. However, following a complaint from one of the bidders that the confirmation was false, the offered Konig was specifically due to the company by more than a million kunas to the state, outstanding liabilities. The contest has been canceled. One construction season is lost, and the hall isn't started. Only attaching a false certificate is a punishable act which is undeniable. But what about the case when the contest is repeated? The same bidder may again report to that tender which should certainly be avoided and I think he should bear certain sanctions. And have a certain ban at least for a certain period to report to the competition. I also believe that there are a lot of provisions in the current law that should be corrected that should contribute to making the procedure itself faster and cheaper, to allow all participants in the competition to be equal. Some provisions are too restrictive. Let's say a provision on the possibility of direct bargaining of up to 20 thousand kunas, I think it is often too restrictive and difficult and slows down the procurement process while many others are practically complicating and slowing down the process themselves. I therefore support the Government's decision to set up a working body that will prepare a more complete amendment to the Public Procurement Act but I believe that this debate has its own justification, that it is good that we are the subject of principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34119	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Proposer. So far we have really had the opportunity to hear the argument for and against such a proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act, so let me really very briefly first say one of your observations. I think only the explanation of this bill has well diagnosed the situation, but also the problem of public procurement procedures, and, of course, after that, we can discuss whether the solution offered is adequate enough at these moments? I really think the initiative is positive because it wants to introduce a new form of transparency in public affairs. Indeed, the aim is to make the law both clear and easy to implement and to in fact prevent abuse or abuse of the position necessary for it, and very often this case of direct contract in the public procurement process. The intensity of this proposal is that it is less likely to apply the conclusion of transactions through a direct contract. This would include procurement by invitation to tender in which there are at least 5 titles to participate in a competition that will be valid if only one complete and qualified bid is applied. I agree, in fact, that this is an open space for actual manipulation and abuse, but also a space of speculation that every public job, whether it is financed from the state budget or from the budget of the local self-government units, is actually burdened by a prior agreement, guessing, and ultimately by taking a percentage of the agreed job. Personally, I understand the intentions of this bill to bring public affairs as close as possible to the public and to public control. However, these amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act want to put under control public procurement of state and state-owned enterprises, as has been the case so far for those jobs financed from individual budgets of counties, cities and municipalities. companies owned by them. This is exactly what encouraged me to take this place to advocate a solution that was imposed a year ago by the City of Zagreb, and to all the commissions for the purchase of goods and services, all the commissions that work with the City's headship, as well as companies owned by the city of Zagreb. In this decision, the City Headship shall make all purchases and supplies and services of potential contractors and service providers publicly available from 20 thousand kunas, not as provided for by law by the 200 thousand kunas. Given the amount of work that is being negotiated daily in the city of Zagreb, the over-priced publication has proved to be too expensive, the full publication of competitions in the daily newspaper, so today all the information on all public affairs can be found on the Zagreb website so that all interested contractors and service providers can now search the Internet daily and report to all those competitions they consider to be competitive. Thus, in some ways, it was tried to jump to one generally accepted point of view that all invitations and tenders are generally a front for agreement and, unfortunately, to take a commission. The picture in public and despite these efforts has not improved much, and it has proved that our work is not yet under public supervision. The problem is, of course, more complex in the direct contract procedures which this proposal does not treat in the context of local self-government units. If the parent committees have to give a preliminary opinion on such procurement, the fact is that local self-government units are already doing so today because it is necessary for such jobs to give them prior opinions to the Ministry of Finance. And that's actually where we come into the next problem, and that's a little bit too crazy, or maybe even too much state control in one sense, and in another sense, it's actually a lack of that concern. The particular problem of this Law is certainly this madness because today there is this Institute of Investments of Appeal on the decision of the Commission in the local self-government unit or certain chieftains, so it is actually impossible to sign a contract and go into its execution within a normal time period, and in any case it should appeal to the Ministry of Finance that the more up-to-date rejects those objections to a choice that do not have a valid and concrete argument, and therefore very often the works that were to start in the autumn and sometimes we enter into the next financial year. Here again I would like to underline to me that this proposal for amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act has gone in the right direction is pointing our attention to the whole series of problems that local self-government units and state administrations have. And I hope that, in some ways, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's commitment on 4 August last year will finally see the light of the day and that some of the solutions offered under this amendment and addition of the Public Procurement Act will also be found in the government's proposal. Because, of course, it is quite clear that most of this House is unlikely to accept this proposal in particular. But that would be good if the government, or that commission, also listened to a phonogram from this debate, saw what problems we were pointing to as advocates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34121	Thank you very much. It's 10 minutes out of check-in time. And the last one in the debate is Mrs. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the Public Procurement Act itself, which was passed in December 2001. I'd say it created a series of problems in its application. In particular, for smaller institutions or units of local self-government that do not have a larger number of employees, it took considerable time to carry out all these public procurement procedures. I don't think it's for neglecting the material cost of publication in the National Journal, so then you announce that the supplier was chosen, or that you cancelled the tender, all of which creates additional material costs. Then, the most common criterion he applied here was the criteria of the cheapest offer although we had the possibilities of certainly additional criteria but I say this is somehow the most revived and we consider ourselves the most correct. Which then leads to the possibility that and the dangers of choosing a performer who works unquality, who is late for finishing some work or doesn't finish them at all. To buy some equipment that isn't that high-quality and actually doesn't give you the opportunity to choose what you want. It also happens that, for unwarranted reasons, other bidders complain, and then it extends resolution deadlines by extending it for months. We know that the calendar year isn't too long when we get the funds, so then it happens that the funds aren't used, or then in 12 months, there's a big problem as to what to get, and then it's brought into a situation to get something out of full legal regulations. Here, the proposer refers to a direct contract, and I certainly fully agree that the direct contract provides both the possibility of abuse and malfeasance. Provides the possibility of assigning valuable jobs to selected bidders. And here we can only see that during 2003 there were two thousand and seven hundred such cases. And in fact, this applies mostly to either ministries or state institutions, state-owned companies. I think we're so smaller at lower levels that more consistently I'd dare say we're conducting that public procurement. So we see here it's said that the values of such direct contracts were one billion and 400 kuna, 400 million kuna, and that the highways we discussed repeatedly with a direct contract negotiated 47 jobs or 50 million euros. And Croatian railways have 11 procedures but with 115m euros. We see that this means very valuable purchases. It is therefore certain that any idea where better control of the direct contract would be introduced and where the direct contract would be reduced to the least possible extent should be supported. But I don't think we can completely eliminate a direct contract. That is why I would say that this proposal, where it is proposed that, with the previous agreement in the direct contract, along with the Public Procurement Office, also gives the parliamentary competent authority the view that such a proposal does not offer an effective solution. I think that this really would make it even more complicated for itself and I think it's less effective. So I say this solution is not considered good and effective, and I will support the government's proposal that here really needs to be addressed soon and should soon be referred to the amendments to the law. She would not agree here that there should be special criticism of the government because it has not been so long, as the law referred to the parliamentary procedure. Perhaps if there were inconsistencies in the application of both this law and better fault control, there would have been far less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34123	Thank you very much, ma'am. Is she a proposing? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34124	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of the Proposer of Honored Vice-President Đurđa Adlešić. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on the completion of the Public Procurement Act proposed by Djurdja Adlesic is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies." Please come in. You can vote. The result? I find the conclusion accepted by 80 votes to six abstentions and 11 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34125	We move to the 5th item of the agenda; - Proposal for a law on the compensation of pensioners; Proposer of Representative Damir Cain, first reading of P.Z. No. 185; You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? He does. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, as your proposal, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34126	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Here's what we all are clearly interested in and even more who are outside this assembly what is the state of the pensioners today. It is easy to say that today the state of the retirement population is worse than it was yesterday, and surely in a year it will be worse than it is today. Or if we convert it into figures then we see that average pension in January 2005 is 41.2% of the average salary and that the same average pension was 42.4% of the average salary a year ago. And instead of according to the contracts of the Croatian pensioners and Croatian Government, the average pension with 1 January 2005 is 50% of the average salary, it will certainly be less than these low 41.2% by the end of this year. First, I would like to read part of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we received there on 9 September 2004, where among other things it is found that it is not possible to talk about the right to repay debt because such a right to the Constitutional Court's decision does not exist but is already about the compensation of the pension beneficiaries because of the partial harmonisation of pensions for the period from 1 September 93 to 31 December 98. In one word almost to dare say that this argument is inconclusive, that just because of this one formulation, the law that we had failed before I don't know, I won't say for a year, a little less sent to this assembly procedure entitled the Proposed Debt Reimbursement Act to P.Z. No. 127. What is the difference between the repayment of the debt or the compensation itself? Probably a lot of people will agree. The state is certainly the decision of the Constitutional Court to establish a debt of 30 to 40 pensions to our pensioners who were retired after 93 years and I fear that the state is simply not intending to pay them back even a cent at the moment. And that's the point. And in fact, it should be recognised in some way, and the story of the repayment of the debt that the IDS is talking about and the compensation that the Constitutional Court's decision is talking about, or what the Government is talking about is now a marginal matter. I'm gonna say it one more time, it's not a neck, it's a neck. But what's the point? Citizens, as we're on our way, I'm afraid there won't be any return on that basis, any damages to the profits, not a cent. Why? The government should form some imaginary fund in which shares of our state-owned enterprises should be entered, and then repay debt from the sale of those shares to the pensioners, in particular, to the benefit of the pensioners. But where's the problem? The fund should be established after the local elections. And debt repayment should begin as announced in 2007 certainly after the parliamentary elections. So we're coming to that folk's, "Keep the water until the masters leave." Otherwise, this notion of repaying the debt, indemnity, can be on one side of linguistic equilibristics, can be legal distinction, but our pensioners, pensioners, whatever we call them, are roughly deceived by one word in a rough way damaged. For how long? That's where we all agree. 30 or 40 pensions. It doesn't matter now. But I agree that it should be calculated as well. But it's important next. Shares of state-owned enterprises should be merged into this fund. But there's one but here, too. By the end of last year, the state had to or sold if I wasn't wrong about the stakes in some 400, 500 companies with a stake of up to 25%. On this basis, our pensioners clearly did not get a cent, because all this money, money, pardon, went only to the deblockation of the Croatian Privatisation Fund due to the debt the Fund had to SN Holding. Second. By the end of 2005, if I am not mistaken, almost 200 companies should be sold and privatisation of shipbuilding, Postage Bank, Croatian Forests, et cetera, et cetera. And that means, on that basis, I doubt our pensioners will get lipo, because, as I said, a fund should live there somewhere in 2007, I'm going to point out once again, the end of this government's mandate. On the other hand, what needs to be feared, this fund could easily be converted into a total sale mechanism for the Republic of Croatia. I would even dare say, one such title was published somewhere. I will quote Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, who said she simply did not have shares to repay her debt, and this has been claimed for more than a year by the IDS Club, noting that the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund has now started to say so. The IDS wants citizens, so our pensioners, pensioners don't rent imaginary promises of debt returns, when everyone in this House knows it's not possible. Finally, I will say once again, this fund will come to life in 2007, as it will say, after the parliamentary elections. If we want to pay back our debt to our pensioners, the pensioners, i.e. If we are to deprive the pensioners, then we either have to guarantee them shares of the public enterprises of HEP, Croatian forests and the like. But these gentlemen belong to family silver, so it turns out that the compensation of pensioners can become a mechanism for the total sale of the Republic of Croatia, or we have to agree to IDS's bill on debt repayment through bonds. The truth is the IDS was asked by the Retired Queen to refer that compensation bill to the parliamentary procedure. Meanwhile, the retirement queen gave up the law, but the question arises why. Well, probably because the leaders of these associations have been given leading positions in some income management bodies by some large companies, through whose form or through which they, under quotes, "began to guarantee" so-called. Social or pension peace to the Croatian Government by that, you place us in certain luxuriant companies and we will offer you social peace. And that's it. Third. The IDS argues it is possible to repay the debt if it amounts to 20 billion kuna. It is clearly not possible to repay this in one or two years, because it would simply lead to the bankruptcy of the Republic of Croatia, but I repeat the debt return, even if it was shown by an amount of 20 billion kuna, is simply a "tough cough" according to the harmonisation of pensions according to the HDZ-HSU agreement. Because if this occurred on January 1, 2005, or for 2005, if that amount should be 50% of the average salary, 6 billion kuna should be provided. For 2006 or 60% of the average salary should be provided between 12 and 14 billion kuna. And in 2007, if the average pension of a million and 60 thousand pensioners were to reach 70% of the average salary, they would have to provide between 18 and 20 billion kuna. It is clear that at this moment, at this material, or these material possibilities of the Republic of Croatia, this is not possible. But the repayment of debt or compensation of pensioners as an obligation may be assumed if the IDS law is complied with. I'll say one more time, not in one or two years, but in seven, eight years, for sure. It is also clear that these bonds must appear on the bearer, and they are also needed by gentlemen, to go to the appropriate interest. If this country, on the other hand, was able to set aside 25 billion kuna for the recovery of banks, in significantly more difficult circumstances, then it could pay back the debt to our pensioners. If it can't be said, and let's say by quotes, the obligation to transfer to a future government, because surely the Constitutional Court's decision will have to be respected sooner or later. Finally, I also claim that today are incomparably better times than when money was allocated for the recovery of failed, fallen Croatian banks. That was the time right after the end of the Homeland War. It was a time when Croatia found itself in isolation. It was a time of almost zero industrial growth. Back then, the gross social product was 10, 15 to 20 billion dollars, depending on whether it was 95 or 99. And today it is already reaching 35, possibly more than billions of dollars, and only four years ago it was about $20 billion. This will all say that today is easier to engage in than it was four years ago. But why did IDS decide on this law? We decided to give first of all at the request of the Retired Mother herself, and that's actually the point, and I said why they gave up the law in the meantime. Finally, let's not offer them shares of which we all know that in the end there will be nothing. What are the relevant provisions of the law itself? First in the article, let's say the second thing we're talking about here is compensation to pensioners in terms of this law. This should be the difference between paid pensions and pensions that are now in line with the provisions not to mention articles of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension and Disability Insurance and some other laws should be brought into line with salary growth for the period from August 93 to December 98. Article 3 states that the form of compensation prescribed by this law will not apply if the pensioner whose final judgment has established the right to compensation by means of an enforcement clause, regardless of the fact that such form of compensation is not prescribed by this law. In Article 4, we speak of the right to compensation for pension beneficiaries retired in the period August 93 to December 98. If the pensioner died as important as possible, family pensioners have the right to compensation. If there are no beneficiaries of a family pension behind the deceased, the right to compensation shall be obtained by the descendants of the first inheritance order in accordance with the Inheritance Act. In Article 5, the right to compensation to the heirs behind the deceased pensioner may take place for the longest period of one year from the date of entry into force of this law. What is certainly most important in this law, not counting what there is, how to secure money, is a model by which money can be provided. Article 12 states that the beneficiary's right to compensation would issue bonds from the Republic of Croatia. The bonds are payable in annual meals for eight years starting in 2005 and due to be charged every 1 October in the calendar year. The budget of the Republic of Croatia should therefore provide for the following amounts: - 500 million kuna. Why 500 million kuna? That's one tenth of what the rebalance is, in fact, by how much the budget is increased compared to 2004. In 2006, a billion kuna should be provided, as the 2006 budget is assumed to be 10 billion kuna larger than 94. In 2007, since the budget will be around 15 billion kunas higher than in 2004, it should provide a billion and 500 million kuna, and so until 2012, when I repeat this whole commitment once more, if it is 20 billion kunas can be respected. Why 1 / 15 This is the period immediately after the season when the budget is the most liquid, i.e. the most resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. You have a clear view in Article 13 of the bonds, it can use the bond to buy shares or shares at the disposal of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and as a means of payment in the purchase of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, other values in accordance with the provisions of the special law and Article 14 of the instrument for payment of the total compensation of pensioners set out in this law will be secured from the state budget. Article 15, since the law in the parliamentary procedure was sent on 2 November 2004, could not be higher than that period when it was due to enter into force on 1 January 2005. It should be June 1st if we then conduct another reading either 1.7 or 1.9. Now that is less important, but by that time of 1.10, there is certainly enough time for another reading to take place. So the point of IDS's initiative is that debt, i.e. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. The point is that the debt is transferable, that the bond is on the bearer, that it's tied to a currency clause. Now whether it's a dollar, a euro or a Swiss franc is less important. So to end, if we sincerely want to accept the obligation to express myself, the initiative of even the Retired Mother of Retirement, i.e. Reimbursement of pensioners then we accept the model in question by compensation in the form of bonds. I'm aware of the fact that no matter what it may be at first sight, it doesn't seem to be a major asset in 2005. 500 million kuna, counting clearly on the country's deficit in 2006 billion kuna, etc. in order not to be easy on the Minister of Finance, but if we agree that debt recovery is a universal priority or one of the national priorities, the country can repay the debt as it finally did through bank recovery when the budget in a significantly shorter period of 4 to 5 years de facto allocated nearly 25 billion kuna. It's not an easy commitment to this deficit for the finance minister, and if someone told me I need that money every year, I'm sure every minister would sweat, but I say once again that 500 million kuna in this year, one billion kuna in the next, one billion and a half, two billion kunas in 2008, 2009. 2 billion and 750 million, 2010. 3 billion and 500 million, 2011. 4 billion and 250 and 2012 Five billion kunas can simply be singled out and secured. What is not possible at this time is to reconcile pensions with average salaries of, say, 50, 60 or 70% in 2005, 2006 or 2007 because I said that in 2005 for 50% pension harmonisation compared to the average salary should provide 6 billion kuna, 2006 for 60% between 12 and 14 billion, and in 2007, if the average pension was 70% of the average salary of as much as 18 or 20 billion kuna, it is simply impossible. But 500 million kunas, a billion kunas, a billion and 500 million kunas on that basis for debt repayment is certainly possible to ensure that. Keeping in mind the unreal promises that mention the shares, the IDS offers our court the only realistic way to deprive the pensioners, these are bonds. Clearly, this crucial role should be played by the growth of the economy because without the growth of the economy, there will be neither greater pensions nor higher salaries in this country nor better healthcare nor social welfare will be more successful nor will we have more modernised roads. So here is an opportunity in our first reading to decide how to proceed, and I invite you in front of the IDS Club to support this initiative and to refer such a legal proposal to the second reading so that it can take effect on October 1st of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34127	Thank you. Legislative, Labour, Social Policy, Health? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ MPs, respected representative Drazen Bošnjakovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34128	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club, of course, will not support this Law for a purely reason because we passed the Law last year to determine how we would depriving pensioners, it is the founding of the Fund. As we know, the Fund is being established, negotiations are being held, negotiations are under way, and the promoter himself has devoted a lot of words to this fund but I wouldn't be able to talk about it now because simply the Law establishing this Fund has yet to come before us. Of course, pensioners are in the process of setting up themselves and the process of making this bill itself and are very well-acquainted and represented by their party and I think it is a quality proposal and I would not like to talk about it now. We would be like the Club the happiest, most satisfied that this debt can be resolved in a way that pays off the pensioners and that this debt is one way in 2, 3, 4 or 5 years, but we all know very well the problems that we have as a state burden, we all know what our external debt is, we all know what our deficit of the state budget is, we all know what our social gross product is, and in these things we really need to run one policy of reality, one policy where we will pass a law that will be possible tomorrow and that will be objective and realistic, and that we promise some things that we won't be able to fulfill, I don't think that this is going to pass anymore. Croatia is simply in a mature stage of democracy where more promises, that we will return something in a few years, I don't think it just goes away anymore. And that's why if we accepted this, we'd have to put out the law that we passed last year on the establishment of that fund and only then go to this. And now that we have already done so much action to bring this Fund I think that the deadline expires in August and by August we must absolutely pass this law, I think that such a single solution as the proposer himself said was actually a proposal for a queen of pensioners who had already been delivered in the previous assembly, however, precisely for the sake of his incompetence has not been translated into law, I do not think it is acceptable at this point. Whether the situation or the situation of the pensioners is worse or better compared to earlier today, I would say, I would not agree that it is worse, we can't say that it's better, but in any case I don't think it's worse because we know that we both have those 100 kunas and those 6% that are entering our base today and that the base is so increased compared to the last period is increasing by the salary increase that I agree with not being significant. FOR all of these reasons, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community cannot support this Law and we think that the right theme is when it comes to our benches of the fund-building law that we set out by this law that we passed last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34129	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34130	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party who will not listen to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will not support its proposal not to accept the bill, that the Croatian Parliament does not accept the proposal for a law on the compensation of beneficiaries of pensions. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club supports the bill sent by counterpart Damir Cain to the parliamentary procedure. Proposing the refusal of the Law, the Government cited the fact that the matter covered by the proposed Law was fully governed by the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, which entered into force on 5 August 2004. It is indisputable that the matter is governed by the Law which regulates that pensioners will be compensated through a special fund. It is indisputable to know yet what will be done by the Fund's assets, which is a prerequisite for the compensation itself and the way in which pensioners are compensated. We have been informed by means of public communications that negotiations between pensioners and the government are under way that even the ultimate deadlines have been set that they have moved and broken but there is still no final solution. So all we have left is speculation in the sense of "what if it were"? The trail of these speculations will require pensioners to wait for dividends of companies whose shares and shares are held by the fund owner and only then will there be partial payments depending on the amount of dividends. But in the debate on the proposal for this law, we said that the solution is not good even in the event of the most optimistic prognosis. The existing solution is a lot of unknowns and inaccuracies derived from the law itself and from the arguments given by the government's representatives. In the debate, lawmakers used the term of debt repayment opposed by government representatives and representatives of the ruling coalition, arguing that it was not about debt repayment but about compensation. Of course, the issue of what pensioners should receive, the payment of the debt, which implies the difference between what was paid to them in the 1993 - 1998 period and what should be paid to them, or the compensation under which 10% or 20% of the actual debt could be borne. The dilemma created by the insistence on the termological difference between government representatives and representatives of the ruling coalition is being resolved by the law on the compensation of pensioners we are discussing today. Article 2 is replaced by the following: "the compensation of pensioners within the meaning of this Act is the difference between paid pensions and pensions which are in accordance with the provisions of Articles 30, 42, 47 and 48 of the basic rights law of pension and disability insurance, Articles 121, 123 and 182. The pension disability insurance law should be brought into line with wage growth for the period from August 93rd to December 98th." So the provision is quite clear on how to enforce the law and any pensioner who still doesn't know what to get. With its clarity, the provision excludes any speculative manipulation of what pensioners need to get. Retired people don't care what it's called, but they don't care how much they get and when. The applicable law says they'll be compensated through the Fund, as far as we don't know when we don't know. For reasons of credibility and a minimum guarantee that the assets of the fund would not constitute only worthless shares of the Croatian Peasant's Club of Representatives had proposed a conclusion obliging the Government to introduce shares of profitable capital companies such as INA, HT, JANAF, etc. With the will of the current majority, of course the parliamentary proposal was rejected, which raised doubts about the government's fair intentions regarding the Fund's assets. It seems that such a procedure did not instigate suspicion only of us at this time of opposition MPs, it also raised suspicion among the pensioners who were here throughout the summer, autumn and winter demanded the disclosure of the secrets that would be done by the Fund's assets. Unfortunately, to date, unknowns have not become acquaintances, even establishing ultimate deadlines. Unlike the current law, which does not tell pensioners when or how much they will receive, namely the repayment of the long proposal that is before us clearly says that they will get the difference between what was paid in the name of pensions and what was to be paid under the Law. This law also says that it will be paid. It says in bonds from the Republic of Croatia that will be profitable in annual meals, starting in 2005, which are due to be charged every first October of the calendar year. So they've been profitable in equal annual meals for eight years. However, the bond is marketable even earlier because the holder can benefit from the purchase of shares or shares at his disposal of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and as a means of purchase of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and other values in accordance with the provisions of specific laws. By accepting this proposal, each pensioner would know that he would receive his difference in equal annual meals over the next eight years, if he wanted to invest his bonds in shares or shares before, but not at the estimated value most frequently overestimated, but at market level as most credible. The pensioner can buy the bonds and property immediately, which means the apartments he now pays monthly. What is trying to object to this proposal is a more annual return. Let's be realistic and let's be clear that one-time payout is not possible. The promoter predicts that 20 and a half billion kuna would be required to pay off. This amount cannot be paid once in this proposal, we do not have to be afraid that a larger number of pensioners will not receive payment. The bonds are hereditary, which means the rights are passed on to the heirs. This solution is more just than the existing one, because the right to bonds has heirs to those pensioners who are also paid a pension less than the one that belongs, and they have not welcomed the Constitutional Court's decision, nor the law. The existing law, adopted by the current parliamentary majority on the government's proposal, does not allow it, and not only for them, but also for those pensioners who have made their pension according to the rules on the insurance of individual farmers. Therefore, unlike the existing law, it does not discriminate against certain types of pensioners in this case, peasants. Furthermore, this proposal obliges the Pension Insurance Office to calculate the amount of the debt within a year and to issue to each pensioner, the family pensioner and the heirs a solution to the amount of compensation as the difference between paid pension income and the corresponding pension. And this is a more quality proposal than a valid law guaranteeing pensioners a reckoning that pensioners cannot complain about, and in particular cannot start an administrative dispute. The billing of the institute may be wrong for the pensioners, but it is impenetrable because the law has declared it a dogma of faith. In contrast, a solution may dissatisfy the dissatisfaction of the dissatisfaction and initiate an administrative dispute for the protection of its rights. This law objects that it is not possible to pay even in bonds. It is recalled that the former Government paid 13.5 billion kuna on behalf of pensioners in cash on the basis of the Retirement Law to remove pensions in different periods from January 1st 2002 to 31st December 2004. So these are the reasons why the Croatian Peasants' Club supports the proposal of the Reimbursement Act as a better and fairer from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34131	Thank you. Honored representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34132	Mr. President, Mrs. Terze, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this address to you on behalf of the Club of Representatives HSU, it is my duty to answer a few questions or a few provocations that he has put before this high house the Proposer of this Law. First of all, the question that's been asked is that it's about the claim... (troubles on tape)... in the pension system tomorrow to be worse than today. But when that claim is placed here, then it should be said why. It is certain that the share of average pensions in average salary will fall with, everything and that there is a formula that binds the average pension to the average salary, and that is because the new pensions that have passed through the sieve and resolved pension reforms up to 400 kuna on average are less than those old pensions by 1999, and every new pensioner in the aliquotal part actually reduces that average. Of course I must say that the Croatian Party of Pensioners and in this active negotiation process with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on pension system corrections and pension reform corrections. Secondly, I have to conclude here that I am a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and that I have been on the agenda twice, but the proposer has not shown up to explain the proposal on the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Thirdly, there are little potential findings that the state does not intend to repay the debt to the pensioners. If he hadn't intended to repay his debt to the pensioners, then perhaps this high house would not have passed the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision brought by this high house 15. Seven last year. Next, I also ask my colleague Cain to get acquainted with the people's saying, "Keep the water until the masters leave," because if the masters don't leave, they're in a position to fix what they possibly did wrong. Third, the issue is that by the end of the year 200 companies should be privatised. The project of the fund, which is based on the law that passed this high home and proposed by the Croatian Party of Retireds, is said to have 58 companies offered for the portfolio of the Fund privatised immediately and without any major problems. So there is no question of privatisation, and we are sure that if it is sold, it will be sold transparently and through the stock market, through the stock market, and not in any other way. I don't think the project offered by the Croatian Retirement Party was well understood by the promoter, and it is not true that the fund will revive in 2007 and 2008. The promoter also attacks the sale of family silver but also offers it in the implementation of this Law. I am also obliged to intervene because the leaders of pensioners' associations accuse themselves that in the boards of directors, i.e. the boards of directors of HZMO, HZZO and public institutions, I think it would be more useful that the past government included those representatives of pension societies to solve this problem and that leaders should not be condemned for their contribution to the final resolution of this problem because I think they deal with this problem, much better than we do and that we have what we learn from them. And I would also refer to a proposal that is not quite unburdened for the state budget because if you notice in the proposal in the last three years of the implementation of this proposal it should be paid out of the state budget of 13 billion kuna, which is not exactly insignificant money. But I certainly have to thank the promoter for insisting that this bill come on the agenda because in this way we have the opportunity to say something more here between us and what has been done so far on the realisation of the pension fund, so I will also take this opportunity. However, I would like to say firstly that this bill, which was referred to by the motionor in the parliamentary procedure, has been processed by the work material which the queen of the pensioners has referred to as working material to her branches. In preparation for this debate, I asked for the opinion of Mr. Vladimir Lokmer, president of Matica, who says this. Your Honor, I have read the new final draft of the law that Mr. Cain sent to the parliamentary procedure this time. As the famous IDS party and not Mr. Cain came out also a few months ago with the Final Bill on the Return of Debt to Retireees the text of this bill is along with an explanation entirely from word to word prescribed by me. As a member of our working group within the Croatian side of pensioners, I was in charge of making such a bill and explaining every provision of the law. Since it was actually work material, the explanation is written in some parts and in the first person. I wrote the contents of the law by handling optimal requirements and which as such should have served as our position as a starting point in future negotiations with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, by acquiring circumstances he leaked, he leaked not to the public but to the IDS who deleted my name and date of manufacture and as his final proposal referred to the parliamentary procedure. Their proposal was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and on the agenda of the Legislative Committee, and that is where I handed over my and their text to the chairman of the Committee to Mr Boras, thereby proving that it was the same content. It should be said on this occasion that the Legislative Committee does not accept proposals coming from political parties or individual MPs if the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not shown itself positively about these proposals, but it does not exclude the possibility of discussing them. In my debate, I indicated the purpose and purpose of making that law. After Mr Cain has been put forward, no more IDS comes out with a new Final Proposal which differs from the previous one only because the "debt" is replaced by the word "depreciation" and that one new article provides for the dynamics of the payment of bonds and the old proposal excludes Article 3. Second. Since the promoter intends to solve the problem of compensation for pensioners in the pension system, then I must draw attention to him for doing so, that he should have done so, not the proposer, but that he should have done so in 1998 when he was a representative in the Croatian Parliament and especially in 2000 when his party participated in the executive government. It is not logical that the Proposer today offers this proposal for a law since this House adopted the Law implementing the Constitutional Court decision of 12 May 1998, which regulated this matter in the best possible way, I draw the possible way. And what it is and what it is, or what it means to be within the reach of the law that is in force. Since 5 August 2004, debt has become an inheritance right. Why? Because the pension system does not know a word of debt or inheritance law and it was necessary to get the problem out of the pension system. Second. The law did the following good, reactivated 711 thousand procedures that were obsolete in the administrative procedure. One time because most of the pensioners didn't press charges. Second. One part of the pensioners gave up and only a few thousand citizens were in active labor, in an active administrative dispute. Now they're all in an active position to account for all 711 thousand differences, therefore, damages. Keep going. The law provides for individual debt calculation, therefore, only rightly to deal with the debt problem, which so far has not been resolved by any law but has resolved debt resolution or envisioned and realised debt resolution in a social way. So the exact opposite of what is required for an individual's debt to be resolved in the end. Fourth. The law now in force has defined an agreed interest of 2.3 billion. It's a matter of compromise, it's a matter of consensus of retirement associations not to go on a tight interest, not to go on interest rates, but to admit a certain interest on this waiting. The law defines that through the operations of a special fund in which the state imports property, the compensation of pensioners is carried out. Everything else, the stories of the stock that will get some good shares of one bad stock are improvisation and hinting because it's simply not true. Furthermore, the law set deadlines for the calculation, for the completion of the accounts, or for the delivery of notices to pensioners of the amount of compensation and for the start of the fund's work, on 5 August 2005. I am pleased to meet you here and the model of the Croatian Party of Retirement. Knowing that it is impossible, as Honorable colleague Lalic said, to pay it off at once and that it is impossible to find the money because I have been counting on the debt to be a plastic is still paying off and has become an integral part of my pension. Therefore, it is not possible to find any new money because of the state's burden on both other stakeholders and international lenders in the coordination, so in agreement with pensioners' associations, we agreed to this way of resolving. And that in a way that takes two years to make money out of property. And that in the next five years starting in 2007, pensioners should be paid off. How? The pensioners would become co-owners of the fund by their reckoning and their shares would come for redemption at exactly the intended time periods, which would make it impossible to trade and speculate on the shares, trade in bonds, because here, distinguished colleague Lalic said only one side of the bond because the bonds allow and sell at discount price and bagging. Especially among the generation that says give me what you give me today that I don't have to because I need it today. I understand that, but I can't be an active law-making participant that's going to make it possible to bag or a new, new mugging of pensioners. But I did for it to be true that within a certain deadline he would get that part of his debt. We must all continue together, so this is the model and in this context the Croatian party of pensioners is a very active negotiator with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as far as you know in the Fund's portfolio is offered 58 state-owned companies with a total portfolio of around 10 billion kuna plus a 5 billion kuna offer in real estates where the change of purpose can make a difference in price to the estimated or calculated 20 billion total, total debt. We can also say that as negotiators and as coalition partners, we are satisfied with the property offered, but we are also dissatisfied with the deadlines and would like to go public as soon as possible with what we have agreed and when this Law will come to this high house. We must say this openly and honestly, but I hope that after these obligations were made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the past period that within very short time, we will reach a position when we can also inform the public here in the high home of the Proposed Law in the Pension Fund. So much for now, and there's more for individual discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34133	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34134	I'd like to correct my colleagues in the section if none of them were on the committee. I was on the board, and if I may remind you of my colleague, Hrelja, I said you have no exclusive right to represent all pensioners if you remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34135	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34136	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am truly surprised but I will be extremely decent why Mr. Hrelja cares so much that this law does not pass into another reading. And we in front of the IDS Club, the proposings of this legislative proposal really ask the Croatian Party of Retired to support this Law to go to another reading. The second thing I'm saying is that IDS didn't prescribe anything. We have been asked, asked by a representative of the Retired Mother to refer their legal proposal to the parliamentary procedure, which apparently some other political options were not ready to send. We are asked by Mr. Farkash who today is president if I am not mistaken for Croatian pensioners' parties in Rijeka, Mr. Azuliani and so on. And now what's strange is that Mr. Lockner changed his position overnight and we all have to ask ourselves why. What are simply syncourages may be divided in relation to the Croatian government to now give up its legal proposal. What is certainly most important in this Law, except for the clear will to pay off, better said to deprive the pensioners, is this model of Article 12, which suggests a modus that is possible by means of bonds in one, under the supposed deadline to settle one obligation to Croatian pensioners. Why didn't the former government pay it off? So we must also admit that the circumstances of 2000 were incomparably worse than they are today. That in 2000, this country's gross social product was worth 20 billion dollars, that today it's about 30 or 35 billion dollars. The second thing I want to note is that we will all agree that the pension population is certainly one of the most endangered in the Republic of Croatia. Someone else is going to say they might be unemployed in a worse situation. Some will say that those who work in insolvency companies are in a worse situation than pensioners. I don't know. The NOB fighters will also say they're in an extremely unfavourable situation and so on. So many categories of citizens in the Republic of Croatia are in an ungrateful situation. Yesterday in that square or in this square outside of this House, the deminers, or representatives of the Mungos, were on strike, as they say. She supported them or we from the opposition supported them. A year or a year or a half ago, these representatives of the Mungos were also, or does it not matter, like educational workers strike, who supported them at the time? They were supported by the current government. So the problem in this country we'll all agree is structural nature. Not because she or she government would not raise salaries, pensions are already a problem because, we all know, one possibility of a state, and the other is needs, third is expectations, fourth is wishes and so on. But what is important about this legal proposal? This is about the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court's decision is unequivocal. She, I'd even dare say, led to the fall of the former HDZ government. It has significantly affected even that concept of sin of the structure spoken by our Cardinal Bozanic. It also led to the coalition's pledge to repay its debt, and unfortunately it did not go hand in hand even though we heard from Mrs Lalic that 13 and a half billion kuna were returned during that period in 2001, the end of 2003 or 2004 which is certainly one respectable money. At the very least, we expect this trend to continue after taking power from the new HDZ coalition, HSU, HSLS, minorities and so on. What's that supposed to do? It is necessary to provide a clear 10 billion kuna to pay back the pensioners. The question is, is that possible? We at the IDS Club claim it is. Is it possible to do that to the stock? From these shares, these 58 or 6 companies are not possible. It's just not possible. Is that possible to make bonds? We argue that, but only in one way to create conditions for the functioning of the Croatian economy, because without what I said and before there will be no higher salaries, there will be no higher pensions, there will be no lower taxes, there will be no better, I don't know, better retirement homes and so on. 20 billion kuna, I agree with Mr. Bošnjakovic in one or two or three years or Ljubica Lalic who also noticed it, it is not possible to return it. But in seven or eight years, it's probably. And according to that model of the rehabilitation of Croatian banks, when 25 billion kuna was also secured in 1994 by the end of 1999 in the state budget or budgets of the circus. It bothers me, before I said the same thing when the government doesn't have an opinion, her opinion is practically a form of compensation, a non-refundable debt. The pensioners don't care. They, what do they want? They want their 30, I don't know 40 pensions not overnight because it would lead to the bankruptcy of this country, and for that no one got a mandate in this country no matter what political option the government would hold. But once again, I will say that our law is not on that track. He comes from correcting, correcting a civilization's injustice. I'm not going to talk about the Constitutional Court's decision because we all probably agree that a return should be made, under allegations of debt or damage the pensioners. The only question is how in what period. The IDS suggested as you see the bonds, the bonds should be returned to the debt under quotes, damage the pensioners in the period 2005. 2012 with 105 amounts of which the annual budget increases compared to 2004 Is it possible that it's tolerable to our budget we keep at the IDS Club that way we can fully resolve that mortgage I'd say those former, former governments. 700 thousand people demand their money many more than those 700 thousand people are no longer alive. So we can't get around their heirs. Clearly, bonds as predicted should go to interest at the level of the declared inflation. And what else to say. IDS is once again going to say I've received the law of the retired queen but we can only assume why, in the meantime, the queen of pensioners or rather some of the exponents of the queen than that legal proposal of their note has been modified and given up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34137	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34138	Your Honor, I'm correcting three incorrect allegations. In 2000, the circumstances were not better than today because at that time there was an external debt of $11 billion, unlike where $30 billion is now. Another 711 thousand people don't ask for money, but 711 thousand will be in account for any differences. The third of some of the exhibits from the retirement queens cannot be the president of an association numbering 400,000 members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34139	Thank you. Honored representative Pero Kovacevic Club of HSP Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34140	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So look to us in HSP and this question easily answered, namely, HSP has clearly expressed its position in return to the debt of pensioners since 12 May 98 and remains principled and consistent on this issue. Like all other issues of importance for the Croatian state. We then said that one part should be returned in cash and one part in bonds. And today we stick to that point of view. And that's why we normally support this bill. And I ask my colleagues and Caine and Hrelja not to engage in copyright, let them not deal with the copyrights that the first version of what Mr. Cain gave on behalf of the IDS Club does not interest the pensioners. They don't care. For them, debt returns remain an equation with more unknowns. It means more than three strangers. More than three strangers. We are not surprised by this position, nor by the Croatian party of pensioners, nor by the ruling majority, nor by the government, they justify themselves having this law passed last year, so it was passed around this summer. And now. But I can't do this without reacting. Then it is now spoken in a presentation and in an imperfect form, says the foundation of the fund. So it's a presentation or an imperfect verb. So let's say a fund was established so we know what it is. The pensioner's party threatened if I remember well 5.6 times coming out of the coalition in terms of supporting the HDZ of this government, so it was spoken in August, so it was spoken in September, this, that, and there is this inconsistency and inconsistency. It must be acknowledged, indiscretion and inconsistency. I don't mean in the sense of getting out of this work, but that finally the pensioners know what to expect and when to expect. You know what pensioners want to eat, and so do we, and for us, the pensioners vote we're always out in the field. They're interested in him getting a solution where he'll first write to him how much the state owes him. Now we hear it's going to be somewhere by August 5th of this year, he doesn't believe it anymore because that's what he's been saying since he was 98. That's what he's been told since he was 98. There is no trust when it will be and whether it will be done. So this should be the first part that finally every pensioner gets at home the solution of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute where they will say the esteemed Mr. point 1 we owe you so much and so much. Point two, we'll go back like that. It's that part of at least some form of legal certainty he's expecting. But discussing copyright doesn't lead us anywhere. Therefore, the problem remains there, the problem is far more important for the pensioners since 17 March and 16 March, respectively, and they are more interested in it. They are interested in whether we will start negotiating with the European Union when we will begin. They're interested in that part. They are interested in the part where someone finally tells them we owe you so much, the state owes you so much, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, we'll start returning then and then. And the day today means talking in the presentation fund will be established. So when it's going to start. When will it start? Why are we waiting so long? Why are we waiting so long? So this all seems to be inconclusive, and I say we support this proposal, so if anything else, we're going to force the government and the Croatian party of pensioners to finally make this fund law come, that finally the pensioners know it's no longer a equation with three more strangers, so at least there are two unknowns. But the first is that it's clear that he knows how much the state is obliged to him and the second one to say how and how he's going to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34141	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Walter Poropat. And in the second part, respected representative Dorotea Pesic Bukovac please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34142	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Madam of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. This Reimbursement Act, which was referred to in the parliamentary procedure by the President of the IDS Club, Mr Damir Kajin is a real way of ensuring the safe compensation of pensioners or pensioners, or by the alleged debt to pensioners, some will say it is not a debt but a compensation. Or it's not a neck, it's a neck. Which again comes down to as long a postponement as possible, I'm not going to tell debt or compensation as much as I can about paying back the pensioners. This bill lays down the right to repay money to the beneficiaries of pensions, the way and the procedure and the time and forms of compensation as well as other issues identified by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 May 1998. Reimbursement rights are granted to pensioners retired from August 1993 to December 1998. If the beneficiary died, the beneficiaries of the family pension have the right to compensation, or if there are no family pension beneficiaries behind the deceased, the right to compensation shall be obtained by the progeny in accordance with the inheritance law. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will calculate the differences between pensioners retired by the end of 1994 before determining the difference between paid and corresponding pensions. And later in 1998, which by the Law on Harmonisation of Pensions in order to eliminate differences in pension levels achieved in different periods, from the "National Journals" 127/2000. They haven't been removed. In addition to a fixed amount of compensation, the Office will, within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, issue a decision on the amount of compensation but also the way in which it is paid, i.e. the institution will issue bonds of the Republic of Croatia which are payable in annual meals for 8 years in the manner shown in Article 12. And given that GDP is growing annually at a rate of 4% of these budget cuts, gentlemen are possible. Therefore, on behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleagues, I invite you to accept this proposal for a law on the compensation of beneficiaries of pensions proposed by the President of the IDS Club, Mr Damir Cain, and to go to another reading. And finally, the pensioners get their money that belongs to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34143	Thank you very much. And also on behalf of the IDS Club below, respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34144	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to start by just maybe looking back a little bit to really surprise me, and it's very signifying that the Retired Party is more concerned with copyright than when it's going to pay back to our pensioners. And the second very significant thing is that today after a few months when we have a new agenda, no longer a debt to the pensioners but a refund, so we only have one word new. Again cameras are not included so that our pensioners cannot track who is in the Croatian Parliament favouring their rights. Obviously, there is fear in some that we could really see how some here want their problem solved. We at the IDS Club when we first gave in the procedure the Law on the repayment of debt to pensioners, the argument of the Government and the refusal of this bill was in my opinion and the IDS Club was, of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court was not to repay the debt but to compensate and I don't really see any other reason besides that formal one. Now that that formality has been corrected, and it is no longer called the Reimbursement Bill to the pensioners, I can see that there are other reasons behind it, not as you said for the first time because of the repayment of the debt. I won't repeat myself to talk about how the Retired Mother sent us this proposal, and that now some documents are being read, perhaps at another time, when that person entered your party, so she changed her mind. Because I talked to Mr. Lokmer on the Legislative Committee, who agreed that we MPs here serve to refer laws to legal procedures, not to hide them. We also believe that we in the IDS have both legitimacy and election in the 8th constituency and that we represent pensioners. Because let's not forget that we got a higher percentage of votes than the Retirement Party and that you don't have an exclusive for all pensioners in Croatia and that other options have something to say about the pensioners. I get letters every day from pensioners who disagree with solving pensioners' problems in the way of the Croatian party of pensioners. Of course, the IDS proposal is diametrically opposed to the government's and coalition partner in the government, the Croatian party of pensioners. The concept itself was seen to be different today. The IDS, of course, argues that compensation rights are issued to beneficiaries of bonds from the Republic of Croatia which would be profitable in equal annual meals over a period of 5 to 10 years, which would appear to be on the bearer. If we go to analyse the decisions to go to an accelerated privatisation of the government portfolio that the government has brought for those companies that own the state up to 25% of the shares, we know that the money that comes from the sale of such shares will go safely to consumption or to cover external debt. As far as the fund itself is concerned, we don't have any good experience as far as the funds are concerned. Because we've established a defense fund and we're very unhappy with it. Because, of course, new problems are being put in place around the fund, in which the shares will be divided, in which way companies will be managed and, of course, the problems divided by profits. Not to mention after the Child Support Fund, etc. But if we go down to some kind of math, we know the pensioner's got about 800 grand somewhere. About 700 thousand of them have less pensions than 1,000 kuna. So also this debt that's been created on average so far, don't take my word for it, but on average, it's probably somewhere around 25 thousand kuna per pensioner. Well, let me finish. The unquestionable fact is that debt exists and the unquestionable fact is that this proposal is certainly better than some imaginary fund that will be established, in what way, how, by which shares, we will see it. The second fact is also that the Constitutional Court's decision is also undeniable and that pensioners will have to be compensated. And it seems to me that according to that first version of the fund, if it were a variant, what would happen if it were.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34145	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34146	Honorable President, esteemed Proposer. The SDP was a responsible party while in power, is now in charge of the opposition and will be responsible when it comes to power again. That is why the SDP cannot and will not support this proposal of Damir Cain's law. In principle, the SDP club finds it extremely irresponsible and inhumane to play with the emotions of the pensioners and to raise false hopes of something that is completely inexplicable. Retired people have been robbed of their pensions, but their dignity must not be stolen. And in the name of this dignity of these old people it is necessary to say once, but now enough, enough to play with their fate it is also hard enough without it enough, enough bidding on their rights, enough false and unfulfilled promises, enough to worry about their position which seems to be only going out of concern for themselves and their political position, care being taken to gain easy political profit, for the purpose of creating a political extra profit. The pensioners are damaged. He's made a debt to them. Those who damaged them, who in 93 began to create this debt and created it by 98, initially claimed that there was no debt at all, that there was no debt and only the Constitutional Court's decision made them recognise the debt and begin to repay it. Matešina The government at the time of the first HDZ administration returned through the formula 6% plus 100 kuna 3 billion of that debt. Racan's government is still around 18.5 billion. In total, more than 20 billion kuna have been returned so far. After one calculation, the total debt is 24 billion and by that calculation, if it continues to return the debt as it has been done so far, that debt will soon be settled. Some other calculations mention a debt of over 40 billion kuna, and by these calculations another 20, 24 billion kuna should be paid back. Third, and that's what I mean by government, they say wisely, they don't even know what debt it is. It has yet to be calculated for each pensioner in particular, and then issue each of them a debt-level solution and then set up a fund to pay back the debt, and then put in that fund shares of state-owned enterprises and then wait for those shares to come back and then start paying back the debt. When? In 2007. That's what we have our own opinion on. First of all, in the pre-election campaign, they themselves played with the emotions of the pensioners by abuse of their trust and the naive hope that the pre-election promise of a quick and complete repayment of the debt would be fulfilled immediately after HDZ's arrival in power. Then a year and a half did nothing but pass a law of preparation, and now they're tumbling with the year 2007. The HDZ won power in 2003 and 2007 will expire its four-year term, and during that time, during the end of the term of office for which they promised to pay back the debt for 2007. The government is predicting the beginning of a debt return. The government, therefore, has transferred its pre-election promise for this term to another government in its second term. Honestly, there's nothing. And that no one can see it and that there is no one to tell the gentlemen you cheated on us once you froze our pensions and created our debt and the second time you promised to repay that debt in this term. For the third time, you won't fool us. You won't fool anyone else. And please, what does it mean to start repaying the debt in 2007 when it is known that every year these pensioners to whom the debt should be paid die about 25 grand. In 2007, you won't have anyone to pay back the debt you created. The return of debt to pensioners and the special inclusion of those 6% plus 100 kuna basically has already created a difference in the amount of pension, the average pension of course between old and new pensioners and this difference today is 500 kuna. Any further artificial increase in debt, bidding with it, different treatment of old and new pensioners there will only increase the difference. The bidding of pension rights and irresponsible behavior will not correct the old injustice but will create a new one that will have to be corrected by someone else forever. The SDP club believes that debt should continue to be recovered in an existing formula and there is nothing against the government finding someone else for pensioners a more favourable formula by which it will speed up debt recovery. The SDP has no objection to meeting the pre-election promises and, with the end of its mandate, to publish along with the previous government that did the lion's part of the work, along with Matesha's government that started with it, we have returned the debt of the Sanader government to the pensioners that we created for our first administrations and the government that comes to leave a clean situation. The SDP club has no objection either to it or to Damir Cain when and if he is Prime Minister or Minister of Finance offering and implementing such legal proposals, but the SDP has warned, cautioned and warned the pensioners not to fall for the nice words behind which neither the political will nor the political power to turn these offers into reality whether they come from the government or from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34147	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a correction to one incorrect allegation, so the proponent, Mr. Silvano Hrelja, came forward in an individual debate in the 5-minute name, so I would suggest that you may not be going to correct the allegations and if you agree, Mr. Hrelja, that without correcting that you are now going to an individual debate. Here's your esteemed representative, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34148	At the beginning of this individual debate, I must draw attention to the fact that it was incorrect that the proposing was at a session of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. It is the legislator of the first law which did not pass in the parliamentary procedure, i.e. the debate was not held, it was rejected, or rejected without debate. For the first time, Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac was present, but this second proposal was not discussed on the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Secondly, I would like to use the opportunity to replicate to Mr. Peri Kovacevic because neither Mr. Cain nor I are engaged in copyright, because unfortunately stealing copyright is the same as a fake master's office would want to replicate it. But we weren't dealing with the team, we were proving the facts. I would like to argue that here we can impose positions and counter positions, but that there is no Croatian party of pensioners we would probably not speak in this state council today about the debt of pensioners, given that in the law passed by the coalition government there was a provision that the debt to the pensioners was settled in such a way that, with pensions from 05% to 20%, the addition was counted as the repayment of debt to pensioners while counting on the pension basis. They're also facts. However, it should also be said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is a party of pensioners and representatives of pensioners' associations that they appreciated all the efforts made by past governments in the adoption of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision not to speak now and the date, and all of this has been built in as a contribution to the recovery of debt to pensioners. I'm taking the opportunity for fellow Stazic to correct the incorrect allegations he said, and he claimed that 6% created a big difference, 6% and, 100 kuna and 6% on a retirement basis, that it created a big difference between old and new pensioners. It's just not true. The effects of pension reform where each year the number of years for the calculation has increased, i.e. the average pensions have made this huge difference, and if it is the culprit of these 100 kunas and 6%, then it is the culprit in the smaller part of these major differences. So that's what this is about. The same truth I contacted, before I said that the queen of the pensioner, or President Vladimir Lokmer, is an association with 400 thousand members. Now I'm talking about the second-largest association that's the Croatian Retired Union because I also asked President Ivan Nahtigal for an opinion on this proposal, and I owe that opinion to this House. The following is the comment, the Law is not ill-conceived, for pensioners it might be more useful than the current idea of the fund but also the trotical, the pensioners would of course be best and they would want it as a priority, the first cash compensation, and right away, the second compensation through the bond and the third in some other way. It is not true that the Croatian party of pensioners in pre-election activities promised the solution immediately, it is not true that HDZ promised this solution because it did not solve it at all, further why President Nahtigal says why we accepted the third solution. It is clear that it is impossible to deprive pensioners of money because all that has been received so far to repay the debt has entered into the retirement foundation by amending the Peace Law since the 4th month of last year. Secondly, we gave up the speech of the president of one of the pension societies, we gave up the bonds because the state cannot issue them at this time with this rate of duty, they do not allow financial institutions, especially for these purposes, the only bonds the state can issue are bonds guaranteeing the repayment of debt to creditors. Secondly, we release the state from the necessary additional borrowing for these needs, we don't give an alibi for additional debts that have occurred without and without us, we have actually combined the variant 1 and the third solution, which is that money is made out of property and in one desirable dynamics is paid to pensioners. Thirdly, the question of credibility remains, writes Mr. Nahtigal again, remains the question of the credibility of Cain's proposal. He was in the structure of the government's position for 4 years, which in practice denied the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May 1998, we then addressed everyone in power to stop explaining that the Constitutional Court's decision was made by increasing pensions to remove differences but we did not get any active support from them. Now, however, Cain's proposal contains an explicit recognition of the Constitutional Court's decision and the necessity not only of compensation for illegal harmonisation but of correcting other illegalities, valorisation of salaries for the year preceding retirement, which was arbitrary for the years 94 to 98, as well as incomplete correction of unwarranted differences. From this, it could be estimated that the motive of this proposal is really the compensation of pensioners who are realistically carrying out or who are holding a grudge to those in power and pre-election points. It's a done quote. That's what I'd end up discussing, moving to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34149	Here, a five-minute debate on behalf of the HSU Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34150	Finally, there was also a reference to this Law and I refer to this Bill as follows: Article 4(3) Unfortunately, the Pension Insurance Act does not know the concept of debt or inheritance rights, but only knows the outstanding differences or obligations, which means that compensation would be an inheritance right in the spirit of the Peace Act and the spirit of this proposal should still be calculated in 1998. How he didn't do it, we have another problem. This compensation was given the character of property law and therefore the inheritance right only by adopting and implementing the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of 12. 5. In 1998, since 5 August 2004 and to our regret for many pensioners too late. Article 5. The current Law does not restrict the right to compensation to successors of pensions in a time-dimensional manner but only to the first inheritance order, we consider it more favourable and through the creation of a Pension Reimbursement Fund we want to give him unlimited inheritance rights, in fact we give him property rights. Article 6 of this proposal is a very inaccurate and vague formulation that could be calculated by it. Article 7 cannot be applied at the same time to increase differences through the revaluation of inflation rate, pre-indection and application of lawfully tightened interest. Article 8 would be possible if the compensation project were implemented in the pension system but then could not be recognised as debt and as inheritance law. Article 9 for an add-on of 100 kuna and 6% is of the opinion that this is also the opinion of the Constitutional Court that this is one of the contributions to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May 1998, and this is particularly true of 1. 1. 2002. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal which is not implementing the provisions of this Article additionally burdens this proposal with non-implementability. In view of the content of Articles 6, 7, 9 and 10, the assessment of the financial resources required in Chapter 3 of this proposal is roughly underrated, so this assessment as well as the dynamics of realisation is wrong and impossible. Furthermore, the bond is a paper that was immediately marketed and that in itself it reads as the bearer, regardless of the term of maturity, can be the instrument of a new mugging of pensioners because they would produce new bags in Croatia. Article 13, unnecessarily, Article 14 is not possible because there are restrictions on the income and expenditure of the state budget over which Mr Cain often dived crocodile tears behind this speaker and was concerned with the sale of family silver and now the opposite solution is offered. Article 15 of the Proposer has failed to propose that this Law repeals the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of 12. 5. In 1998, which was adopted in the Croatian Assembly 15. Seven. In 2004, he entered into force on 5 August 2004, which apparently ignores the legal system of the Republic of Croatia or puts himself ahead or above the system. The Proposer offers solutions that are inconclusive even in the hypothetical case that 152 IDS MPs sit in the Croatian Parliament, which means complete control of the executive government, and therefore the HSU party that implements the responsible policy cannot support this proposal but will insist on finalising the initial solutions. If it were to happen, despite all this proposal in the Croatian Parliament, I am taking advantage of Mr Cain's opportunity to propose to the new Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34151	Thank you. Proposer of the Law, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34152	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, after Mr. Stazic came forward, even in some parts he would have to agree with Mr. Hrelja, I am truly surprised by the attitude of Mr. Stazic when he says we are playing with the emotions of the pensioners. According to who was playing with the emotions of the pensioners, some came forward in the year 99 when they also promised that the debt would be paid back to the pensioners over a period of 4 years. However, what happens after this 4 years, pensions are falling and unfortunately will continue to fall further, why, he explained among other things Mr. Hrelj because new pensioners are coming in who are at the beginning of a significantly lower pension, are free to say in a more unfavourable position than the old and will have to talk about them in a similar way someday. It's not true that we're playing with anyone's emotions, first of all it's not possible in front of a half-empty chamber, and not before, there's no transmission, etc. But let's let it go now. I'm going not to owe your time, so that someone doesn't impute me, once again to play with some emotion thanks to everyone who took part in this debate, I hope that this law will also be supported, on Friday at the time of the vote that it will be forwarded to another reading. I regret, however, on the other hand for the boycott, because it is clearly speaking indirectly of our care to one population that counts at this time if I am not cheating on millions and 60,000 pensioners. I will especially regret it if it comes down to the rejection of this proposal, and I am really sorry that the government has not given a positive opinion. Most of all, however, I feel bad that one million pensioners will soon be unable to count on debt or on their compensation. I have not spoken on purpose before about average pensions or pensions or minimum pensions, these are amounts that are sometimes not due to courtesy, sometimes not even to be mentioned, but to work to increase these minimum amounts. We once again propose to repay the debt through bonds or compensation anyway, why? – because the shares of that injustice whatever anyone claims simply in the next period of 3, 4, 5, 6 or 10 years will not be able to return. I agree someone might notice, and even workers who had safe jobs before conversion or privatisation do not ask for a return of their jobs or lost salaries, nor our craftsmen who have lost their market due to a number of circumstances do not seek any satisfaction. However, gentlemen, pensioners are those categories that simply don't have a second chance. That's exactly what I want to point out, the pensioners are the category of people who have no other chance and who mostly not only depends on the budget and that's why a little more sensitivity, even at this late hour is needed in this assembly. If so, and so is the budget or budgets, and this court decision, the decision of the Constitutional Court that many have been called upon, I am talking about budgets or governments, however, in one extremely perfiduous way of bringing nearly 700 thousand people into the situation that their pension there from 93rd to the end of 93rd was de facto reduced by 40%, which ultimately caused this huge claim. Where does one word lead this policy? To say that today, the average pension is 41% of the average salary without any prospect of increasing in due course. So once again, I'm going to tell the IDS that a debt return is being made through the bond. We think it's possible. It is clearly not possible in a year or in two, or in three, but within one appropriate period of 7 or 8 years certainly yes. Why? If it was possible for the gentlemen to resuscitate the banking system from Privredna via the Bank of Dubrovnik from Rijeka, I don't know which Split etc. With nearly 25 billion kuna, then in significantly better economic circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is located, it is possible to accompany, depriving Croatian pensioners, according to the IDS Club. This proposal, as proposed, should be supported by the very pensioners. And we are deeply convinced that those outside this assembly simply stand on such a legal proposal. On the other hand, those who have given up on their proposal have secured themselves through some supervisory committees and similar in the Croatian government, and so they simply change their views overnight. Today is about the fund. But there's still no gentlemen on the horizon. And as our funds end, it is good to remember the Croatian Defence Fund. Finally, what shares can we afford at this time 20 billion kuna? By the end of 2004, they sold up to 25% in nearly 800 Croatian companies. By the end of this year 200 other companies should be sold, and the privatisation of Croatian Shipbuilding, Post office Bank, Croatia's insurance should be prepared. In the end, all this will be brought forward, and we will put ourselves in a position where this Fund will be a mechanism for the total sale of the Republic of Croatia. The truth is, and it should be acknowledged, the average pension today is much longer than it was 20 years ago. That, as I would say, lifespan has gone on. However, we simply can't be too busy making those people who live more today after their working life, but 20 years ago disappear from the globe of the Earth. So, bigger pensions, I'm as aware as we all are here first of all depending on larger economic activities, that's the point, that should put an emphasis on it. However, we cannot give up on the Constitutional Court decision, the decision obliges this Parliament, obliges Croatian governments, it must be dealt with and this debt or compensation should be implemented. Clearly Croatia's reality is something else. There are no relevant economic activities, so someone will pull the line and say, while there will be no higher salaries, there will be no higher pensions and so on. I agree that's one naked truth, but we also have to make it clear that the economy is key and pension and any other reform, even though we're not going to do anything, we're not going to foreign capital, we're not going to go to Europe, we're not going to bring down socialism, we're clearly not good at capitalism, we're not going to privatise, we're not going to be foreign banks, and unfortunately we're doing a little bit of what we're doing. So I'm gonna say the economy one more time. To end this what to say. Let us not only drop amounts in these new pensioners compared to the old pensioners, as we will possibly face their request relatively quickly before the Constitutional Court. And as far as IDS is concerned, it's clear to all of us, the IDS has always talked about the obligation to implement this obligation to pensioners both with the past government and with those pre-existing governments in the same way we do now. Unfortunately, there was little we could do when we entered a government in early 2000 and left it in the fifth month of 2001. Thank you. And support that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34153	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with order of agenda points as it is in the consolidated agenda. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted in 19.16 hours. Proposal for a Reimbursement Act. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on the Compensation of user pensions proposed by Agent Damir Kajin for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The computer's having viral attacks. Please, we have to vote again. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34155	No, I voted well. I was against it, it just turned out to be zero. I wasn't abstentioned. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was against it, it's just some kind of system error.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-16-0.u34156	I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 70 votes for, 12 abstentions and 13 against. Thank you. They would now interrupt the debate on the bill to declare the National Park "Kopački rit", and continue to explain the government's actions on yesterday's events on the Council of Ministers of the European Union and on the government's further moves. I'm asking the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader to take his word for it. Here you go.
