ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47550	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. The government proposes to the Parliament in an emergency procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments of Authorised State Auditors. At first, I would like to point out that by the beginning of 2001 the salaries of state auditors were determined by the Special Law on the salaries of state auditors, thus achieving the financial independence of auditors from other influences and thus the salaries of other audit institutions in Europe and the world were resolved. In 2001, salaries to state auditors were paid in accordance with the Law on civil servants and tenants and on average were reduced by 20%. The State Audit Office is an independent state body and due to international obligations should have a special Payments Act as it was in 2001. Joining the European Union requires strengthening the role of top audit institutions, which can only be achieved through professional and staff strengthening of the service with a guarantee of employment security, an adequate salary height and, of course, an appropriate reward system. The financial independence of the State Audit Office required, among other things, the World Bank in its report on the financial responsibility assessment in Croatia and the International Monetary Fund UROSK in the 2004 report, so also in a report describing the financial situation of public finances. In this respect, recommendations and recommendations were made by the European Commission, so in the sense that the salaries of state auditors should be regulated in a special way and that state auditors should have independent status. The increased market auditor coefficient is therefore an average of 8.8% and 9.5% of senior state auditors. While the salaries of the Assistant Chief State Auditor are equalised with the salaries of ministerial assistants. An increase of 0.5% per year of internships stems from the Law on civil servants and tenants. This will establish a partial financial independence of state audits, meet internationally set criteria and thus somewhat equalise with most of the world’s top audit institutions. For the application of this Act, an additional 3 million kuna from the budget should be provided in 2006. So much for the promoter, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47551	Thank you very much. The Finance Committee and the State Budget? Legislative? The Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the chairman of the committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47552	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System at the 42nd session held just before this session of the Assembly today considered it as a parent body, discussed the Proposal for this Law and unanimously supported the solution provided for in this Act and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments of Authorised State Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47553	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Zgrebec. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47554	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry and the State Audit Office, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support these proposed amendments to the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors, which are actually changing, three amendments to the existing Law are being made. The first, as has already been said, lays down new coefficients for the Assistant Chief State Auditor, Head of Department, Head of the District Office, Senior State Auditor and State Auditor. And this is how the proposed coefficients require that in the following year, when the law enters into force in the budget, an additional 3 million kuna for the salaries of state audits. The next change is that there is no longer any increase in past work of 0.5% per year of work, which in practice would mean that if the 40 years of work are completed and these 0.5% are further accounted for for for for for each year completed. And the third amendment concerning other receipts and the rights of authorised auditors where they are now said to be realised by collective agreement. So, we support these changes, we also want to say to this occasion that the state audit that has been working for 11 years, the full 11 years in Croatia has always had the support of our club. Today it is almost unimaginable that we do not have one such institution, the state-run audit staff with Mrs. Šimo Krasic performing one responsible, one responsible job and really affecting the use of taxpayers' funds legally and rationally, and spending rationally and seeing this progress in the budget and the state budget in local budgets from year to year. However, we would like to say this occasion that for a long time in Croatia, the need for reform of the overall state administration, which is still both bulky and inefficient but also underpaid, should make it more necessary for the professional, quality staff not to leave the state administration due to poor material status. There, with these few objections and support, the SDP Club will vote in favour of these amendments to the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47555	Thank you very much. HNS MPs' club, Honorable Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47556	I would like to thank Mr. President, an esteemed colleague of the Secretary of State, proposings, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this debate could be taken into account to say that the HNS Club supports this increase, i.e. this amendment and the amendment of the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors. However, before I conclude that, I would still give little to the public an explanation of what the audit is doing and why it is important for auditors to be well paid, that is, why it is important that the revision, the state audit, works well. In the context of what has been said before, Mrs Zgrebec has also said about the overall reform of the entire public administration, which is otherwise one of the possibly more important programmes of the Croatian People's Party. Regardless of the existing differences, their organisation and the jurisdiction of state audits worldwide have the same task. To help increase transparency and improve public funds management. They have a unique position that can support changes in improving the usefulness and suitability of financial and not only financial management in the public sector. In this respect, the state audit also has a great responsibility, with its activities it can assist the legislative authority in the control and the executive authorities in the implementation of the budget, both on the state and on the local level, i.e. to contribute effectively to the management of taxpayers' funds, their spending in a wise, beneficial and very appropriate manner. In order to successfully fulfil this extremely responsible role, state audits are needed, in addition to functional organisational and financial independence, and highly educated and professional staff. The assessment carried out by state auditors covers a very wide range of areas requiring careful consideration, examination and safe judgment and is not only satisfied with formal rules and procedures. This involves, above all, multidisciplinary professionalism applying high labour standards and a fair professional and impartial approach based on facts. The jurisdiction and part-time work of the State Audit Office are laid down by the State Audit Act, which also contains provisions on the organisation and management of the Office and the manner in which the audit and reporting is carried out and the conditions to be met by the State auditors. Methodology and the audit procedures themselves have been set by international audit standards in the short term "into sai" published in the Croatian language in the National Journal and make up an integral part of Croatian legislation. The purpose or basic and basic objectives and tasks of the State's audit are to revise the regularity and revision of the efficiency which, according to its content and scope, represent a review of legality in the first place and in a certain revision of economics which I would particularly stress here for the sake of efficiency and efficiency. The State Audit Office is in accordance with the legal powers set up as a single institution which is the central office in Zagreb also has regional offices in 20 county seats. Only examples of working in state audits are employed I think 200, cca. 280 people out of which 230 are really auditors, ex or various species. The area offices are designed to audit units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other entities subject to audit and the number of employees is adjusted to the number and size of municipalities and cities in each county and to the number of end-users and municipal organisations and other entities. The objective of setting up district offices is to achieve greater efficiency and rationality in business. The Office shall be managed by the Chief State Auditor who, for his work and work of the Office, shall be directly accountable to the Croatian Assembly who, in particular, in particularly important and justified cases, shall have the right to request that the Office be audited and out-of-year programme. For example, the case of Croatian radio television was either in the case of "Sun-Sun-Hvar" and some similar. The work cycle is prescribed by the provisions of the Law on State Audit, and the methodology, as I have previously pointed out, is regulation to international standards. Every year, the audit must include state budget, state budget users, about 40 of them and all units of local and regional regional self-government. Therefore, somewhere around 560 such audits carried out while audits of other entities, such as state or local community-owned companies or other units available by public funds are carried out under the regulatory programme, the annual programme of the State Audit Office. The audit shall be carried out by authorised state auditors. In addition to the basic conditions, authorised state auditors must, in accordance with the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors, possess extremely high moral qualities, but also other values, professional excellent awareness and professional ethics, independence and independence in audit judgment, accountability and reliability, attitude to teamwork, the ability to lead teams and other knowledge and skills necessary to carry out audit work. They should also have an excellent knowledge of international audit and international accounting standards, and of work in accordance with audit standards, as well as of the excellent knowledge of the laws and regulations of preparation for the accession of the European Union, knowledge of European acquis, audit practice, the ability to carry out tasks of different profiles, i.e. a very wide range of knowledge from different knowledge and disciplines. It should also be noted that there is no direction for educated state auditors at Croatian universities today. Therefore, the profession as such is being created and developed within exactly exactly the State Audit Office and for the education of assistant auditors, i.e. an auditor, should be invested for at least 3 years. In accordance with the Lim Declaration which represents... a map for the work of all state audits, the financial independence of state audits must be ensured in such a way as to make a specific budget chapter approved by Parliament available, with a request for the financial resources allocated to them at their own risk, and that they are not bound by the consent of the Executive Authority when implementing the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This also means that the State audit can determine for itself the allocation of the total amount according to its needs, including the funds for the salaries of its auditors. So, for example. in Belgium, Spain, Denmark, the amount of funds for the work of the audit, including the amount of funds for salaries, shall be determined by Parliament on the proposal of the state audit itself. In the UK, the state audit submits its proposal for its budget to the parliamentary committee, and this one proposes it to Parliament for adoption. In Finland, the amount of resources for the work of the state audit is determined by Parliament as part of its budget. It is true that in some countries the establishment of financial resources for the work of the state audit is still partially involved in the executive power, but still ensuring a very high degree of financial independence to the institution itself. In Germany, for example, the President of the Court of Auditors, which is a version of the revision in Croatia, can recall any proposal from the Ministry of Finance regarding the change of its budget. In Austria, the President of the Court of Auditors may make an additional request to Parliament. The Dutch State Audit may, in its budget, discuss with the Committee on State Costs, relying on the proposed memorandum by parliament. In the Republic of Croatia, state auditors have been working ten years hard to improve public services to make taxpayers more valuable for their money. Seeking new means of providing public services requires a change in access, investigation and assessment of the quality of services in education, health care, public transport and all other services provided in exchange for public funds received. In this context, the State Audit report and Parliament in public helps to assess how and how successful public money has been spent, which is the greatest incentive to increase the efficiency of the work of state audits. Because without a court of the general public, any other kind of control is completely pointless. Therefore, it should not be doubted that the state audit offices and their budgetary resources would have had a far-reaching, effective and responsible manner. Until all conditions are met in the environment for the full financial independence of the State Audit Office, the adoption of this law constitutes a high degree of awareness of the role of the State Audit Office in the state system and the meaning of its functional, organisational and financial independence. We could compare that to another piece of information. In fact, according to some information from the UK, for each spent kuna invested in the State Audit Office, taxpayers are also saved up to 8 times their tax money. Which just proves how important it is. The proposed law is based on the above facts on the roles and tasks of the State Audit Office which, by their existence and work, also fulfil a significant part of Croatian obligations towards the International Community and not only at the stage of joining the European Union but which is permanently legitimate as a modern and democratic country. , As a formal and essential condition of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the State Audit Office successfully passes the "Twining" programme precisely with the State Audit of Great Britain in the frameworks agreed by this law which, according to its content, fits the international mandatory documents governing the work of the Supreme Audit Institutions, while at the same time not radical in terms of financial independence as in the countries mentioned above. This means that the adoption of the proposed law, which was in force in the same content until 2001, respects the principle of financial independence of the State audit in such a way that the salaries of authorised state auditors as well as in most other countries are determined by the representative body. And what I would still welcome here is precisely the positive effect given by the programme of education, which is the funding by the CARDS, which refers to the training and formation of the internal audit unit or internal control. I think it is very important, therefore, that how much knowledge I have in the Ministry of Finance is educated a new frame that should help local self-government units and local administration units to establish such internal audit units, or internal control. And since such experts can't be educated elsewhere, it's a good idea for them to be educated at the Ministry of Finance. In fact, I think that the work of the revision in such institutions is very, very important, and let's start with perhaps the strongest of such local communities, the City of Zagreb. We of the CNS will certainly support this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors with the final proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47557	Thank you very much. I failed to say that at 6 p.m., in addition to the vote on inclusion in the agenda of the draft budget and some other drafts of the law, we will vote on the larger points discussed in these three days. HDZ club respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47558	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Government of State Audit, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club discussed the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors. Given the explicit emphasis on the independence of the state audit in carrying out a very responsible job, it is logical to be independent and in salaries, therefore financially and therefore we support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. When we discussed the State Audit reports here in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what type of supervision they were, we found almost uniquely that these reports were professional, thorough and quality. We then praised the findings of the State Audits, assessed the useful appraisal of the gaps and shortcomings and recommendations for removing deficiencies. In one word, the work of the State Audit was evaluated by a very high grade. However, it is also necessary to consider how much these people are paid for their work. For which they pay, they manage to remain independent, professional in meeting high-level standards and objective and critical in carrying out audit findings. We believe that the adoption of the Law on civil servants and tenants in 2001 wronged authorised auditors because their salaries were reduced by 20% on average. By this law, the provision of Article 4 has ceased to apply. The Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors and they were placed in the ranks of other civil servants and deputies, which led to the reduction of salaries. As a result, a number of high quality, authorised auditors sought better paid employment, or left the service in the State Audit Office. Furthermore, the State audit must adhere to internationally recognised principles set out in the Lim Declaration, International Audit Standards and guidelines of the European Union. In particular, we must point out that membership in international associations of top audit institutions is conditional upon compliance with these principles, and one of the basic principles is the principle of independence, which means that the State Audit must be organised as a special independent institution at state level. The status of the Republic of Croatia as a candidate country in the European Union means the adoption of a legal framework for the regulation of governments and institutions as a prerequisite for full integration. One of these conditions is to strengthen the role and fully legal regulation of the status of the supreme audit institution. In our case, it is the State Audit Office which can carry out its task only through professional and staff teaming, through guarantee of employment security and adequate pay, through a stimulating system of rewards and through a guarantee of independence from external influences. We believe that this proposed law will ensure the proper status and financial independence of the State Audit. The necessary financial resources of around 3 million kuna will be provided in the State budget for 2006. I do not think it is necessary to reiterate that this law is also one of the tasks in the process of harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation and another step on the road to full membership in the European Community. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes that this law be adopted in the proposed text, as this will ensure that the salaries of authorised auditors are in line with the status and principle of financial independence of the State Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47559	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47560	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, clearly, I agree with all those who have claimed that there is a need to defend the specific status of the audit as one institution that must be fully autonomous. Clearly, a few more adjectives should be added, it should be responsible, it should be clearly independent. This means, then, that it must not fall under the government's influence or act as government. It must be clearly professional, and then that means the same attention in the revisions must be paid to the ministries on the one hand and local self-government on the other, and not that we now have a situation to audit for 600ths of local self-government whose budgets, not counting the budget of the City of Zagreb, totals 6 billion kuna, devotes 90% of its time, and only 10% to the ministries and other state institutions that have 100 billion kuna or this year the consolidated budget of the central state will exceed 105 billion kuna. I hereby clearly appeal to the city of Zagreb, 6 billion kunas to all others means numbers of 20 Croatian counties, 120 cities, 400 municipalities, become simply irritable, becoming unsustainable, the brakes of any development of the Republic of Croatia. This policy leads to politics vacuuming Croatia into one centre, pauperating other parts of the Republic of Croatia, metropolising on the one hand, or provincialising all those who are not close to the City of Zagreb. So if, on the other hand, this law corrects the injustice that has been done to Croatian auditors in its own time, it is clear that this law should be adopted. But if the same injustices have been committed in other public services or other public services, they should also be corrected in an adequate or similar way. So whether it's cops or teachers, whether it's soldiers or officials, whether it's customs or doctors, whether it's teachers or nurses. We do not have the opportunity but this initiative should be an initiative in general under the quotes "revision" or an analysis of public sector wages for which around 24 billion kuna is provided in the Republic of Croatia's budget. So this law should be an introduction to the review and all other salaries and the removal of clear injustice, indifference, if such illogicalities were, whether they took place by 3 January or after 3 January, as in the case of state auditors whose amendments to the law would provide additional 3 million kuna. So this should be, in some ways, to open up a pay debate in the overall public sector, simply so as not to create services in the first and second order, the first ones that can affect a minister or government and those who do not have such an impact in this community. As far as the law itself is concerned, the IDS will vote clearly for the same, but we simply appeal to correct injustices and other services if such injustices have been done as I said, either until 3 January or after 3 January.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47561	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47562	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. By 2001 the salaries of state auditors were established by a special law and it was the Law on the salaries of authorised state auditors, which was also somewhat normal because it was a body that corresponds to the Croatian Assembly for its work. It would be normal to further develop a system of independence of this institution not only in financial terms but also in methodological terms and in a structural sense, i.e. it is necessary to more separate this institution from the entities over which it is audited, and this applies primarily to the authorities of the executive authority, even to the bodies of the judicial authority, even the Law on State Audit, but the State Audit does not enter these bodies of the judicial authority for the time being. Although we saw from yesterday's debate that there was a need and it... the need for the State Audit to enter, as well as the Law on State Audit, Power and the bodies of the judicial authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Contrary to such a solution that undoubtedly stems from international standards, I mean wages, and commitments, but from Croatian regulations and the Croatian legal system, a major step backwards has been made by the former coalition government. First of all, the adoption of the Law on civil servants and tenants in 2001 and the Regulation on the names of posts and coefficients of the complexity of the state administration’s affairs, which was also adopted in 2001, which literally placed the State’s audit in the basket with all other officials, reduced their wages at least 20% and brought them a huge business of revision, conversion and privatisation for which the audit, the truth for the will, well, not to say, had done well. But unfortunately, then government as well as current, but other structures have done nothing on the basis of such an established factual state. For this reason, the Club of the Croatian Party also submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation and thus establishing the effective situation of sanctioning. That everyone who has illegally acquired the property is taken away or something that they are illegally acquired can never become legal. This way, so the former government has done that the State Audit essentially put her in a bad position. It's supposed to even be the story of the culinary that the State Audition, which the State Audition, the salaries of the State Auditors are classified together with the rest of the State Administration, is the consequence of being one of the former secretaries, I'm not going to say in which ministry, it was the subject of the audit, the work of the audit, and then it took revenge on them in such a way. That's unfortunately true. With this Bill of Payments proposal in the revision, they return to the level they had in 2001 and they do not essentially increase salaries but return them to their 2001 position. So he's back in position from 2001. Now, it's interesting why there's no one here, let's say, to illustrate what this situation is like in the countries of the European Union and with us. So it would be interesting to see that the salaries of state auditors in the European Union countries are far higher, for example, than in relation to the comparative. Let's just say, let's take an example, the judge of the municipal court and the criminal judge have bigger, more salaries than a state auditor. Far more pay, it's mostly important for you, Mr. Stazic, to listen to what you did during the former government. Therefore, this combination would prove that even this solution is essentially not fully elaborated and efficient, and we have to admit that in this system we have a large number of problems also created during the former government. It's a question of education pay, of pay for inspection, of military salary, of police pay. It is obvious that we must do one part of what is necessary, and that is that the state audit and all those services that do not belong to the executive power, and when I say so, I mean first and foremost of all, and let's say to the staff within the professional services of the Assembly, the staff of the courts, the staff of the President's Office, the staff of the Constitutional Court and the other institution. They cannot be together and treated as other part of the executive authority because they are not executive power. And that's the consequence of the so-called single government, so it's all ridiculous. It's the same thing that was done during the former government. Therefore, it is obvious that the Government and this one must correct all these illogicalities that have been made by the adoption of the Law on civil servants and tenants and that regulation in order to be able to do so, and what it is for professional people to return to the state administration. And that professional people who will be the engine of Croatia's launch to contribute. Because you can't get an expert to work at the state administration for no pay. That's a big problem, and if we don't go further and develop this problem of pay and everything else, and if we don't determine the stimulation that people can come to work in the state administration, but then we have to work on another variant, then we won't have in the state budget, so-called intellectual services funds. So someone will work 3rd or 4th, and even let's say managers in public enterprises who are in losses, let's say, they're far more paid by both state auditors and by us MPs here at the Croatian Parliament, and they can still do laws under intellectual services. But these intellectual services were especially practiced by the former coalition government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47563	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47564	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Mr Kovacevic's incorrect quote. He said that officials and tenants should start Croatia with better salaries. It's a completely incorrect quote. Croatia can only launch a serious and meaningful economic policy and give priorities to all those who create a new value, who create new jobs. And management and bureaucracy should be the one to monitor entrepreneurship, which will accompany citizens in their need to create better conditions and a better future.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47565	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47566	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But the importance of the State Audit doesn't make much sense to talk, we all know her. There is no point in talking about the quality of the State Audit in Croatia, because everyone recognizes this quality and all the prices. It has been functioning for 11 years, it has significantly improved labour control, financial discipline in the state. It has strengthened the transparency of the business not only of state authorities but also of local self-government. It points to mistakes that need to be corrected, it controls whether these failures are corrected year by year. What is this law about? On the increase in salaries for state auditors. And that's good. That's good. It will cost the state 3 million kuna a year, but if I thought we'd ask the citizens now if you were to extra 3 million dollars from the budget for the salaries of state auditors, I'm convinced that all citizens would say "yes, yes, you can, raise their salaries because they deserve it". 11 years prove that they deserve it by their quality work. They were independent of the authorities, the authorities were changing, the state audit in this respect always showed respect for independence from the executive authority. Now, counterpart Cain says, it needs to be corrected, this is gratefully corrected by injustice, and fellow Kovacevic that a step has been taken backwards when the amendments to the law have paid a 20% reduction for state auditors. And then he went down on an ex-government that didn't work, and she didn't know anything. And she wasn't run by a magistrate, so she couldn't even know as well as his party would know. But to warn fellow Kovacevic, there is a 20% reduction in salaries for state auditors, but government officials are down 40%. All the salaries were cut because the then government wanted to invest money in development and invested it in development. Because only from development can alimony be paid by those paid from the state budget. Therefore, if it had been a step back that the salaries of state officials, officials, and, unfortunately, auditors had been reduced, I could not agree. If the financial conditions are better now that the state can be more generous to the auditors ok, okay, we all agree, no one is against that law. But that it should be the right thing to do, is not, because there was never any injustice. Now, one more thing from this, the reasonings of this law and the oral reasoning we've heard here. It's always said that there was some kind of financial independence of the State Audit, and then by changing the law, it kind of ceased to exist, so now it's coming back somehow again. It's just not true. The salaries of state auditors have been going out of the budget forever. Always. Whether they'll be bigger or smaller, that's what we're talking about. As we can see, no one is against being bigger, but it will not bring financial independence to the State Audit, because financial independence is but something else entirely. Financial independence would exist if the State Audit was paid, so it's coming from some parafiscal charge that doesn't depend on the budget, or if it had its own budget, so that it determines in its budget that that's how much we're going to pay, that's how much for the material costs, that's how much for the clumps, that's how much for the paper, then that would be their financial independence. No financial independence is introduced here, and it's simply false, and that's not the way to talk about it because then they say inaccuracy. Salary increases, and that's right, and that's good. And they're increasing so now there's a certain coefficient, and they're only going to get paid when that coefficient is multiplied by the base that's going to be determined by who, the government. The government will determine the basis and then multiply that coefficient and where financial independence is now. The salary will continue to be determined by the basis, the height of the salary will be determined by the government. But I don't think it's as big a problem as I said the State Review has shown independence regardless of the height of its salary and no matter who the government in this country behaves. I would like to warn you that, apart from the State Audit, there are in this country and other supervisory institutions almost equally important, and here's to mention the State Inspectorate. And their wages are low. And their wages may not be enough for state inspectors to do what we expect them to do. Not us, citizens. Citizens. So if we're going to talk already in the category of correcting injustice, then we should be careful not to introduce injustices, that different institutions that are equally important to control how they are done in this country, that we don't put them in some relationship that would be unequal. What about the police? They shoot criminals at them like clay pigeons, and they have low wages. They're exposed to life risk on the road in conflict with these criminals. Now, what can this country do now? Well, the state isn't unfair if it doesn't pay what it doesn't have or doesn't pay enough because it doesn't. Well, that's not why she's unfair. The state pays as much as it has, as much as it can pay, as much money as it has. When will he have more money? Well, he'll have more money if the revenue side of the budget gets bigger. When will the revenue side of the budget be bigger? If production is, if development is greater, and one government policy is seen, as much as it invests in development from the budget, then tomorrow, this development could bring more money to the revenue side of the budget, so that it could pay both auditors and inspectors and police officers and teachers and doctors better. Because otherwise, if there is no such thing, if it does not invest in development, if it spends its battery, if it eats itself, then it may be socially attractive for a while, but for the whole society it will be harmful. So let me get this straight. The SDP, personally, and I support this bill. It's not some big budget money, $3 million a year. We think the State Review is a role model that if for no other reason, then it should be rewarded by an increase in wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47567	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47568	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is an absolutely incorrect assumption that money saved from wage cuts is invested in development unless Mr. Stazic thinks it is invested in the development of the Brother Shipyard "Viktora Lenac".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47569	Second correction, the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47570	Thank you very much. Col. Stazic is not exactly what you said in your debate, that no injustice was done to civil servants and tenants in 2001 and that you said that it was not an injustice which was also done by amending the law of 2001 for state auditors. This is for state auditors, and it's true, it's right now, and you've made a number of mistakes for civil servants and tenants, and I'm going to have to spend half an hour here to tell you what you've done wrong, but this government is going to solve it as well as today what corrects your injustices that you've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47571	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47572	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Representative Stazic really said that this was not an correction of injustice, which is really not true because, with all these praises about the work of the State Audit, they rewarded them in such a way that they reduced 20% of their salary with a reason that it was in some way saving budget money. If we were just listening to these discussions today, then we could hear that Ms. Alenka Košaša Chichin-Shain said that one kuna for the review is worth saving up to 8%, so if we spend one kuna on the audit, we have a savings of 8% of the budget money. And what does that mean? If they were to apply, or reward the State Audit for this successful job, it would be less spending on that budget money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47573	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47574	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I am glad that in the end, my colleague Stazic himself admitted the error of the former authorities, because he said he would support this bill and normally who is doing it and who is wrong, and that is fine when someone admits their mistake and eventually says they will support it. But I, sir, and my colleague Stazic, spoke with arguments. I said it was a fundamental mistake for the State Audit to be placed in a basket with the executive authority, made when the Law was passed on to civil servants and tenants in 2001 and then the Government adopted the Job Names Regulation and then the Government determined salaries and auditors. In that part, I said it wasn't legal, because the audit can't be that the executive authority determines the salaries, because the audit is known to have been established, it's founded by law. It's known to be a description and a part-time job. She oversees the executive power and then it's a precedent, a bad precedent when that executive authority ultimately prescribes salaries for the audit. It's that paradox and that mistake that the former government made. She also made the former government, you know that customs were cut off, that the police were cut off, that the other civil servants were cut off, and that they worked alongside the cleaners, and then there was this famous uranist, which was that the former government had completed that regulation and defined as jobs, the ministers' advisers where the similars were taken and the coefficients were raised, and then the constant was that version of the descent, raising the coefficients, and in the end they always got more, and they had no professional equipment, nor were they able to work. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47575	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47576	Well, first of all, I didn't admit to any mistake, just the opposite. I said it wasn't a mistake, wages were cut, 40% were cut by state officials, parliamentary deputies, ministers, prime ministers, the president's salary was reduced, judges' salaries were not touched. So, state officials 40%, by changing that law, to state auditors 20%, half as much. I don't think it was a mistake, it was invested like I said in the development and the result of that fellow Markovanovic, he's gone, is the highway. You know, if it wasn't for that investment, I don't know how much he'd drive to Split, but it's not worth it, it's stupid for me to talk, but now something about investing or a fair evaluation of this supervisory service. You see, I think this one of yours, Mr. Kovacevic, will understand the citizens of Osijek very well because that's where the decision was made to make the floor heating on the square for 60 million kuna, for example. No salary increased to the city administration's internal control officers. Now, if they have nothing to pay for their house heating, they shall have small wages, and they shall come to the square, and they shall not be warmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47577	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47578	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors, although the law is very short only applies to the modification of the salaries of authorised State auditors. It is quite logical that almost all speakers took advantage of this opportunity to commend one conscientious, diligent work of the state’s auditors and her associates, assistants. Throughout this whole period where the salary used to be higher, it used to be smaller and here's a good thing that it's now increasing. However, something significant and significant in the work of the state audit, its people headed by an auditor, that the salary was never higher or lower, had no impact on the quality of their work, and that is what it is for pride, that is, to praise. A lot of people who are employed in state services say how much I'm paid to work. That may be what I think, too, that there is a complete justification for such a winged woman and so to act in the private sector when the employer is a private person, but it is not worthy of a civil servant, a clerk, any rank and level to give his honor, for his honesty, for his responsibility to the implementation of the laws of the interpreters, i.e. to call upon and to find justification in his ineffectiveness, for his ineligible salary. So it's a state audit, their people's example that it doesn't have to be that way. We can link it to a common one, such an excuse for a high percentage of doubt in certain services, and then often justify ourselves by raising wages, we will eradicate corruption. It often does not, or usually has nothing to do with one another, but it is a sense of justice and justice that the state has the strength to be fair to all and to valorize this work and thus reward it. Maybe the time will come and then perhaps it would be the right one significant reform of the state administration when all of the same rank, the same pay grade, would not receive the same salary because they work differently and it is not true that the factory work itself can be valorised. This work can certainly be valorized. Therefore, we can have a real reform of the state administration, if we valorize, so we justly pay the civil servant, the governor, and the official, but also seek responsibility that would then be manifested in a different fee. There have been complaints here, and it is true that during the coalition government, salaries have been reduced both by the state auditors of all state officials, the tenants, so the entire administration, as well as by state officials. For state officials, the salary was reduced on several occasions, and that is fair and it was true and it was unfair, but it was part of it. ... True, but it was unfair within this whole long period because it was also said for a certain time and that these wages would increase. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The coalition government is gone, this power now points to it. Here's the minister laughing about how I confessed, but what does he do? What seems to be 2 years of paying cops, paying customs officers, paying inspectors of whom we have any ongoing demands, and also under new law and new and much more difficult powers, and that their work would be effective? Nothing. It's enough to say you've cut it down. That's right. And what did you do? Nothing, but it's good here to correct that part of the injustice here and to increase the wages of the state audit, that is, the people of the state, because they've earned it first and foremost, and it's a one-hearted assessment, not only of the positions, of the opposition, but of all the public, but no one's doing such a larpurartist, but that job I think people in the state's audit are feeling, that they've done one of Sisif's jobs. They work, carry out a professional, conscious revision of conversion and privatisation, even extended to them now and the deadline, although it is quite unclear in which direction and in which sense at all, and on the other hand the SDP club proposal is rejected, and the existing incrimination that we had and that was abolished, and it is to extend the outdated deadlines for economic crime so that all of this, which has been very consciously, very carefully, very hard and exhaustingly, makes the state review even more meaningful. Well, it didn't make sense for state audits to work for the archives or some kind of leave where you'd all find it nice and neat, but you see that's why there's no will and that's why there's no obvious courage. That's sad, but that's a warning. We have amendments to the Penal Code coming up, but this isn't a word we're talking about. But this is already the third, fourth change, somehow it's going a little bit, to the wars of that change, so we can expect somewhere in 2006, 5 years that we'll be halfway to what we had in 2003. Something concrete may not be created in this pursuit of correction of injustice and that all the people of the State's audit should be paid justly, that they may have a just fee, that there may not be a new injustice that is not done at first sight. Here we have had the opportunity to hear on behalf of the government's representative that the assistant chief state auditor is paid equal to the salary coefficient or the co-efficient of ministerial assistants. However, as you know, the assistant minister is a state official and he does not receive it because the special law tightened the payment of 0.5% salary increase for each year of work. Now here we're handling the minister's coefficient, we want to equalize it with the ministerial assistant's coefficient, but he's not a state official by law, and then he doesn't fall under this law, which has derivated for a certain or indefinite period of time the payment of such a fee. And what can happen? As the State Auditor is, in our particular case, the current State Auditor, a state official with a specific coefficient and has no right to compensation of 0.5% to increase his salary for each year of work, we can imagine the situation where the Assistant Chief State Auditor, who may be an elderly person who has a large job experience before retirement, applies the provision of the proposed Article 4(2), and in that case, we will be able to find a situation where the Assistant will have a higher salary than the State Auditor or the State Auditor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47579	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47580	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, the business of state audit is not Sisif's business and useless and it's an incorrect allegation. This job is generally beneficial social work and therefore beneficial for society as a whole. I'd say you're here to demonstrate what Sisif's job is. You once claimed that in fact the government you led was entitled to, so it reduced the wages of these people, and during the debate, you criticized neither me nor who, and what to finally re-establish the need to increase those wages. It was these two discussions between you and my colleagues, Stazic, that were really Sisif's job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47581	Replica esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47582	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, what doesn't make sense when it comes to the former government, which is that the state's audit has greatly increased the size of the job, hence the entire privatisation and conversion to make the promise it made to the people that the thieves will be behind the lock and the money will be returned. So, to increase the size of the state audit business and then to cut their wages. So it's no wonder that you gave her Sisif's job or that you could do this election promise, so you'll pay back the money and the thieves will be behind the lock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47583	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47584	It is incorrect and could also be used by such an allegation, but I replicate my colleagues because it is incorrect everything that is here because during the former authorities the audit was, the people in the audit were paid for this additional job. I will not say that it has been in sufficient scope and amount but also by amendments to the Penal Code, new economic incriminations up to 30 years have extended limitation deadlines. You have not voted in favour of this law to oppose sanctioning or decriminalising drugs, and this is exactly what hurts you, and you do not want to sanction adequately or incriminate economic crime, and you do not want to extend the limitation deadlines so that I say that what you have additionally authorized the revision and extended the deadlines will indeed prove to be "Sizif's job" because the revision does not work for itself in this criminal aspect of criminality. It's a great basis just so the State's Attorney's Office and the courts can work but you don't want it. In fact, just by opposing these changes, you're preventing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47585	Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47586	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the 2001 Law on civil servants and tenants, as well as the Employment Names Regulation and Coefficients of Civil Service Job Complexities, brought many illogical situations in the work of civil servants, so that it then ceased to apply Article 4. Law on the salaries of authorised state auditors. At that time, the salaries of authorised state auditors and all other civil servants and deputies were reduced on average by 20%. Irregularity just happened with authorised state auditors, i.e. their salaries are equal to the salary system of civil servants and subsistence. The criterion of independence in the work of that state institution has disappeared and many high-quality authorised state auditors have left the office and there have been difficulties in carrying out the work that have been associated with preparations for joining the European Union. In many European Union countries, there are audit institutions with special status and are organised in such a way that they are independent and independent institutions at country level. Since Croatia has entered membership negotiations, it is inevitable to accept the common legal framework, the organisation of institutions. It is particularly necessary to strengthen the role of an audit institution which must have professional staff at the appropriate level of pay, the Institute of Rewards and for its work and guarantee of independence in its work. It is also pointed out in the European Commission's opinion in 2004 when it considered Croatia's request for membership in the European Union, which refers to Chapter 28 of the financial control. It is stated that the State Audit Office must be an autonomous body and that efforts need to be made to increase its budgetary independence. The International Monetary Fund in 2004 gave the same opinion. It is precisely this amendment and the addition of the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors that the Government corrects that segment that was wrongly placed in 2001. I personally welcome and accept the correction and the coefficient relating to authorised state auditors and which is incorporated in this Payments Act, where it states that the value of the coefficient for the position and position of assistant chief auditor will be 3,80, Head of Section 2,70, Assistant of the District Office 2,70, Senior State Auditor 2,30 and State Auditor 1.85. However, I must also point out the problem of low wages in other segments of the state administration that needs to be resolved as soon as possible in order to stop the drain of quality personnel. It is urgent to materially improve the status of civil servants where it is necessary by correcting the coefficients to create assumptions that the state service is not only considered safe but also attractive and well-paid work. In order to enable civil service officials to make adequate progress depending on their expertise, knowledge and performance. This would stop the trend of negative selection towards which young people, unfortunately, are the state service, only on the sidelines towards better paid and on various grounds more attractive places in the economy and in other structures. And finally, I welcome what this amendment will accept about the other clubs of MPs, which is proof of a mistake made in 2001 when the powers and salaries of state-authorized auditors have been reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47587	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47588	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, on behalf of the HSP Club, I will point out that this debate has also shown all the mistakes made during the former coalition government when the state audit was put into play with the executive authority, i.e. with civil servants and tenants. And we're glad to hear that now the representatives of the once ruling coalition have realized what a mistake they've made. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Stazic now who courageously came out of the assembly and said one false thing about it although I did not speak about the Osijek case, the current government in the city of Osijek inherited the project of the square and everything else, just finished it, and fellow Stazic means he can ask primarily his party colleagues who were in that government, how they were in charge of both the part and all the other situations and he can't say it, I don't know why he kept on the wallpaper of Mr. Ante Djapic because he had neither eaten onion nor onion, but he tried to get out of the gable in which town of Osijek thanks to the former government. It's still final in the end. Normally, the HSP Club will support this proposal. The HSP club was never against being Mr. Stazic, and some wanted to honor us to cut the salaries of state officials. We've never been against it, though, we're asking that order be done in various managements of the so-called so-called. public companies who are in losses and have enormous salaries have enormous salaries and more than parliamentary officials and are allowed to even work for the government and write some laws. So that's where the order has to be introduced. Orders must be introduced into the entire system, public services, public administrations related to wages. We know what the situation in the Armed Forces is, we know what the situation is in the police, what the situation is in customs and other services, all the quality of people who can find their love leaving, and then we come into a situation that we have contributed to such a relationship with all these services to the fact that the opportunity creates a thief. So it may also happen to you that customs officers participate in things that shouldn't be involved, that civil servants participate in things they shouldn't be involved in in that way, without talking about inspectors and everyone else who are this bad system during the former government that wanted to make some savings, but she went back to these parts again. Me here, there were words around both the state and the highway. That it had been mastered and done how it could have been done safely for a billion kunas less and we proved it in the election campaign and later and Slaven Letica knows a lot about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47589	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. It's an HSS rep club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47590	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Strengthening the role of independent state audit is very important and crucial in all modern and orderly societies. Financial control of budget spending is one of the main challenges, one of the main guidelines of just all those countries to which we are seeking. Unfortunately, however, in our circumstances and our conditions it is even more important than it is important in the European Union itself. Because our society isn't so arranged and because our dependence on state resources, on the resources of the state budget, is very different from the organized societies and the regulated countries. Therefore, the positive role and atmosphere that the state audit must have is beyond the level of this debate. And the debate on salaries that need to be raised by 9% is not worthy and is somewhat hypocritical compared to what is expected in nature from a state audit. Because here, in an almost inappropriate way, we are talking about the very important role of the body that is independent by system and which should be the controller on behalf of this House of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the growing needs of all the users of the state budget are such that from year to year they are reduced and the pressure on the budget is growing. For what reason? Because it doesn't grow at the same rate that income side of the budget. And why isn't she growing? So, among other things, yesterday in Opatija, the prime minister himself said that the pomidora, as he expressed, bought by a foreign tourist is an export product, is an export to Croatia. Yeah. But 40% of these pomidors were not produced in Croatia, but we imported during the tourist season for the needs of tourists who were in Croatia this year. This is why the revenue side cannot settle and cannot respond to the growing needs of the users of the state budget. Unfortunately, the proposal to encourage domestic production to be used in tourism was explained on behalf of the HSS Club and there was a principled agreement to accept it and to go to another reading, but unfortunately it did not pass. So we are also hypocritical when we talk about the reasons for the problem and we reaffirm the same basics on which this problem has arisen. Therefore, the HSS Club considers and maintains that it is good for the state's audit to remain on its own, strengthens even these measures that apply only to them. Of course, we would like other officials and tenants to enjoy this benefit of an increase of 9%, but we also agree that the state audit will also gain a more significant role in this way, and we are sure that it will continue to work on its task, which is very serious and responsible in this society as it has done so so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47591	Thank you very much. Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47592	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for the very short notice just at the end of this debate. First of all, I would not enter into who it is when it is and what law it is, therefore, the fundamental intensity of this law, given that the State Audit Office is an independent body, that this law offers financial independence to the State Audit Office. Therefore, wages are no longer determined by the Government but by this Law the salaries in the Croatian Parliament are determined because I think that the financial independent State Government Audit Office is very important because we must honestly point out that it is the State Audit Office that corrects certain errors of the budget users and thus brings savings into the state budget. And since there have been some misunderstandings about how much pay should be, let me just explain the amount of coefficients at this point by the State's Chief Auditor, Assistant Chief State Auditor and Assistant Minister. Therefore, the coefficient of the Chief State Auditor is 5 and no additions to the internship can happen to reach that amount by the Assistant Chief State Auditor. So let's take a 40-year-old assistant to make it easier for us to count, that's an addition to a 20% internship or an addition to this 0.76. So the maximum coefficient you could have is 4.56. So it's just something that doesn't stand. The second thing, the ministerial assistant's coefficient is 4.26. However, I would like to point out the same thing, which was clearly forgotten that the proposal of the new Law on State officials and tenants suggested that ministerial assistants from the next elections would no longer be state officials, but would also be state officials and deputies with one intensities and the idea of professionalising and depolitical government and that quality and capable people could look independently at their professional careers in the state administration and thus achieve one quality and professionalism in the state administration. So this may be some small shifts, but I think this financial independence of the State Audit Office is very important for their independence of work. Because it says the results of their work and the shift in the corrections of errors every year following the findings of the State Audit are evident and therefore I propose and ask the Croatian Parliament in a certain way to adopt this Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors, and thank you all very much for the constructive debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47593	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors has been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. Minister? The amendment is accepted. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 94 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47596	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government suggests that next year, in 2006, Nikola Tesla was declared a year of respecting the 150th anniversary of Nikola Tesla's birth in June 2006. Also, in order for this anniversary to be properly marked, it proposes the establishment of an organisational committee and the establishment of a marking programme as well as a proposal for the Croatian Parliament to be the sponsor of all events during that year, which will mark the year of Nikola Tesla. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47597	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47598	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. By supporting the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to be declared in 2006 by Nikola Tesla at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we would like to highlight the indisputable genius of this scientist and researcher of the world's voice, which some scientific authorities place among the greatest minds of the world that have proven themselves in various fields of human activity. However, the fact is that the knowledge and knowledge of Nikola Tesla for a long time was not enough appreciation in the world in general. In world encyclopaedias, his name was rarely found before. Even if he was mentioned, it was a very lame thing to do in a few lines. In time, this relationship with a great scientist is changing. There's a lot of interest in Nikola Tesla in the world. In professional circles, as well as in the general public, various activities seek to give proper meaning to his work. About him, several documentary films were made. His service has been immortalized in many books. Its name is called one unit of measurement in the international system of measures, and the unit of magnetic induction is called the wells. In Croatia, the attitude towards this scientist is similar to that of the world, proud that a world voice scientist was born in Lica, Croatia. We're giving that fact an ever-increasing importance. To emphasize is the visionation of Nikola Tesla who predicted many things that only after his death came true. He said that people would be able to communicate at a distance at the same time looking at each other. He was convinced that technology, telecommunications and information exchanges would develop very quickly what really happened. Some consider him a man who was born prematurely because he was far ahead of his time. History teaches us that this is the case with all the brilliant minds, because the size of their thoughts finds confirmation and approval only after their death. Therefore, let this decision of the Croatian Parliament be our contribution to the memory of the great man who was carried out by our little and in his day by an unknown country. From the overrich CV Nikola Tesla we consider it necessary to stress that he was born on 10 July 1856 in Smiljan near Gospić in a family who knew how to recognize his advantages and potential that supported his desire to gain knowledge. He was a dreamer with a poetic line, which, growing up with his earlier qualities, added only discipline and desire for precision. Because of financial difficulties, he still failed to graduate from college. It's a quick job in Budapest, then Paris. In 1884, he came to America, a country that needed his talent. Many pages are printed with a list of his inventions, but it is interesting to point out that the findings of Nikola Tesla were often attributed to other authors. There are a lot of patents under someone else's name even though their origin is in Tesla's idea. This specifically refers to the area of modern telecommunications. Italian scientist Markoni attributed the discovery of radio-telegraphic connection to himself, and it is believed that the discovery of X-rays was unjustly attributed to X-rays. In a paper published in the scientific journal several years before Tesla had just predicted the existence of such air. Tesla had very few close friends. In financial matters, he was quite clumsy and eccentric. Both scientists and the public were accompanied by the reputation of loners and eccentrics. His eccentricism prevented him from being heard by people, from earning money from his inventions. Although he needed money in 1912, he refused to accept the Nobel Prize in physics because he claimed that his recipient Thomas Edison was not a real scientist. The great Tesla credit is the introduction of alternating current into wide use. His inventions based on alternating current have become the basis for the overall further development of electrical engineering. He achieved about 1,000 inventions and patents, found an induction engine, a three-phase system for transmission of electricity, a generator and a high-frequency power transformer. And secondly, Tesla was also one of the pioneers of radio techniques. He discovered a system for wireless control and giving signs at a distance, found a new lighting system, constructed high frequency alternators based on emission radio stations. He produced non-muffled electromagnetic waves, discovered and patented the principle of resonation for radio connections, exposed the idea of inter-planetary telecommunications using ultra-short waves, and pictured it as a whole and a radar system. He published works of physics that presented original ideas that later came true. As already said in honour of the 100th anniversary of Tesla's birth, the International Electrocommission called his name the unit of magnetic induction, which has since been named Tesla. Nikola Tesla died in New York on January 7, 1943 in 87 years of his life leaving behind 70,000 to 100,000 written pages that are kept strictly secret to this day. Aware of its great significance in Lika-Senj County and in the town of Gospić itself, preparations are under way to mark the 150th anniversary of Nikola Tesla's birth. The reconstruction of Nikola Tesla's memorial complex, the restoration of the home and the preparation of a new, permanent setup on the great scientist, the editing of landscapes and the accompanying monuments of culture located in the memorial complex in Smiljan, and everything plans to be completed by July 2006 in order to present it to the public in the right way. They say Tesla was born in the 198th century, died in the 20th century, but many believe that this 21st century is his century. Because of everything said, because this scientist deserves, and in the middle of the next year, in 2006, we mark the 150 years of birth of the club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be declared the country of Croatia with which he was proud and as some stand out in his century, the 21st century, in 2006, is the year, declared the year of Nikola Tesla.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47599	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47600	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I'll say the same thing Mr. Tomljanovic said. Tesla was a genius, he owed humanity. And if we can repay him, under quotes "reimburse" Nicola Tesla's year, then let's do it. Today, we are familiar with the patents about electricity, radio, radar and everything else Mr. Tomljanović spoke about, but Nikola Tesla is also known to us for that famous sentence: "I am proud of my Serbian mother and my Croatian homeland as well.". That's a great message. Both Croatia and Serbia and the European Union and the Croatians and Serbs and the Europeans, clearly that one's policy in respect of minority rights will not be affected today by such gestures, but will be assessed exclusively by the return policy of, say, the refugee Serb population by the same attitude towards employment in the public services of Croats and Serbs, equal treatment in courts or courts, equal to and equal to retired, etc. Tesla somehow had "happiness" under quotes that he died in '43, that he lived in America, that he didn't live on the premises of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia so that they could see his Croats and Serbs kissing, and something similar happened afterwards. But no matter what, I agree with all those who will claim that this is a significant gesture. And that's exactly the gesture to be supported. And let us also hope that it will ultimately contribute, not to the normalisation of relations between Croats and Serbs, but above all to the calming of passion in these areas, to finally realize that we are all the same, that we have only one life and that we simply have to live together next to each other. And in so much of this gesture, the IDS Club says hello. Of course there's politics in it, we can't get away from it. If there were no policy in it, you wouldn't be discussing this House. And it is understandable that this is the political way to talk, but symbolism is, everyone will agree, and let it contribute and that year dedicated to Nikola Tesla to calming the passion between the citizens of Croatia and Serbian nationality. And what it looks like today is the best time we've had to see in cheerleading at yesterday's game of our young team. We will remember history, clearly that events from history must be marked. Tomorrow in Vukovar, Skabrnj, but today we must build and think about our tomorrow, because from what was yesterday we cannot live. For the end, what to say. Slava Tesla and his work, and this gesture certainly is wise and praiseworthy and surely comes at a legal moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47601	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Ante Correction of an incorrect quote, I'm sorry, Mr. Vladimir Stengl. [[Agreement: Nikola Stengl has a correction.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47602	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47603	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You can never thank geniuses during their lives. I don't think they expect it. They primarily expect that what they have during their lives through research, through the acquisition of knowledge, to try to make the best of it, to improve the way of life, to introduce new technologies, and to benefit from it. Unfortunately, Croatia is not always, and has not adequately given its greats, its scientists, its closer and its further past to all. We are a people who, unfortunately, forget very quickly, so that forget is passed on to this part of science. Namely, all this stuff that my colleagues have said about all this is familiar. It's known about Nikola Tesla all this stuff that's been said. It is known that he was a scientific and researcher of the world's voice, it is known that he spent most of his life in the United States. It's known all these patents that are listed. But there's something else perhaps more important. Thousands of documents left after Nikola Tesla in the United States. For these thousands of documents containing new frameworks for the identification of Nikola Tesla, new elements that are not yet known. Just for those documents, for something that is obviously not yet known, a whole series of international institutions are struggling. Institutions and societies are formed trying to come into the possession of Nikola Tesla's heritage. They're trying, and I think they've already come into possession to own everything Nikola Tesla managed to find out, managed to investigate. There are new sources of new technology, new energy, everything the modern world calls out for. Apparently his scientific research 150 years after that is equally current, equally clear, is the source of all that the modern world needs. So this is how the Croatian Parliament decided to mention Nikola Tesla, and I don't see exclusively how it is to present the esteemed colleague Cain through his way of playing the political view of the present or the near future, because I don't think Nikola Tesla had anything to do with it. And that very statement that the esteemed colleague Cain quotes, he's just saying that he had nothing to do with it, and he doesn't need to be dragged into it. We don't discuss this because of what Mr. Cain was talking about. We are discussing Nikola Tesla, I suppose, aware of the fact that it would be appropriate for you to have a monument of Nikola Tesla in Belgrade and Serbia, when institutes dealing with research into the knowledge of Nikola Tesla are doing work in the capital cities of the European Union, that Croatia will, along with this decision, make a proposal and initiative to form an institute that will try all of those documents, all of those research, all of what was stolen from Nikola Tesla, try to return to the Matika of Croatia, to become Croatian heritage. Because the obvious value of Nikola Tesla is far greater than what it says, far greater than what we said here today and mentioned. Obviously, it can be one significant foundation of Croatian knowledge, an indication of how Croatia can use something that belongs to it in nature. Therefore, the HSS club fully supports this initiative and it is good that the Croatian Parliament is a sponsor of it, it is good that we remembered, but it is good to try to think about the content of it, that the state and this people have an interest in it. If the whole world is estranged by what he's come up with or what he's discovered a little bit, then the obvious reason for this country to think very seriously about it. Therefore, I am convinced that we can, have knowledge and that we have sufficient reason not only to support this initiative but to task the government to take seriously the establishment of an institute that will bring to Croatia everything Nikola Tesla understood, understood and explored, and what is current and preaktual and today because at the beginning, I said, many international institutions, many funds and those dealing with projections of the future, and Nikola Tesla was born 150 years ago, it seems still in the projection of the future. This is how we support this initiative and we believe that the government will take further steps in terms of what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47605	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Kramarić, on behalf of the club HSLS, DC and LS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I really don't think you can say much intro, but that the HSLS club, DC and LS are behind this initiative. She's commendable for many things. But I think that in some way, if we weren't talking about the past, but actually when we're trying to... mark it then in some way I think it's about talking about ourselves, talking about our present and our future. What makes me as a citizen and as a politician, as well as a man who enters politics from the world of science is this rather pathetic explanation that we got on the benches. I don't think it's a matter of whether this Croatian Parliament, in fact, we're here to talk about what we know about Nikola Tesla, to talk about his inventions, to talk about his genius, about his visionaryism, rather than actually to see what science is to us and what we are to her, or in some way how we're going to define ourselves as a society against that fact which is an important segment of every society and so on Croatian society. It would be most tragic if we actually had this gesture to be done, it was about a significant anniversary, about 150 years, about a significant man, and really this message was given to me at many levels, and even at the one that my colleague Cain was talking about, that next year when it was really likely to be the year of the symposium that the character and the work of Nikola Tesla were lit up from many angles, and if only we would have ended up not actually doing the right thing, or we would have satisfied this bureaucratic form that we were both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government and our certain institutions, the national institutions marked that year, but that it actually had no reflection on what was really happening. Today and here in this society, people who also need to create an ambience in order to be, in order to help and to promote and promote Croatian science, natural science, natural science and everything that is going on, and we will now very soon see how science stands, how much this House is actually a non-symbolic way, not with this gesture, but also with this government, but as far as we are really in practice and practice it is not just a phrase, but that science is actually an important part of our future development. So this is how I say if it ends only in this gesture, if it ends in pathetic reasoning, then we actually show that we are hypocritical, that we meet bureaucratic forms, that we have a relatively good memory, that this year, the anniversary has not missed us, and then again I don't know what we're waiting for the 200th anniversary, and that someone who's going to sit here in the same way is going to be related to that fact, and that we're not actually probleming what the 150th anniversary of Nikola Tesla's birth should mean to us. And that's what I think, that's actually the point, and that's one of the conclusions of this Parliament. The establishment of this, to be patrons and indeed to be declared that year, but to ask ourselves here how ready we are now to fight for a particular position of science in Croatian society. If so, then we have really done a good deed, this has served as a good cause, and if not then we will actually do it again in some way, some of our work will be done and we will be able to misrepresent, the problem Nikola Tesla has been removed from the agenda, and that we did not actually do what really needs to be done, which is that this Parliament is creating an ambience that science in Croatia can develop, that people do not necessarily leave Croatia, or if it leaves that... that there is this very possibility of communication and apps exactly what we very often know to be pathetic to say that actually science can and should be, to be one of the generators of our development. [[You don't understand.]] If that doesn't happen, we'll see what kind of position it is, whether that position is satisfying, how much we really do in relation to some of the other segments of society we stand out for science, then we'll be able to say that this Parliament performs its function except that from this initiative the praise really stops and that it bows down to it. So the club is behind it, but I think this is a good reason to open up some deeper themes and to update that and... In the right way. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47607	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47608	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Ministry. I'm glad that next year will be declared the year of Nikola Tesla and as a physicist, I wouldn't stand it if I didn't talk about that fact. As a Croat and as a physicist, I am proud that Nikola Tesla has manifested precisely in Croatia, which Nikola Tesla is the product of this mile and the product of this school system that has only been slightly modified compared to that school system that knew how to recognize talents like him and prepare them for schooling. On that side, we must really be proud that Tesla has denied it here. Every Croatian physicist of course is proud and of the fact that the unit for... The induction called Tesla, so Tesla entered a circle of giants such as Om, Amper, Volta, etc., whose names are called physical units in the field of electromagnetics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in order for the whole thing not to stay just for the good times and the anniversary moments, I have to mention something else here. And that is that the fate of Nikola Tesla is actually a prototype of the fate of Croatian physicists. We know the talents, we know these talents and school, but all of them, I think most of them if they really want to achieve solid results in natural sciences, especially in physics, rarely look over a great bar. Tesla was unfortunately the first in a series, in a long series of Croatian physicists to go that way. This year, this anniversary should therefore be mentioned not only by him but also by all those who had to look outside Croatia for their fame in physics for their lack of understanding. To all those who are resources for their research, no matter how unusual it may seem, and no matter how unnecessary it may seem to someone in Croatia, who could only receive funds for their research and for their scientific promotion outside of Croatia or even in the United States. But also this "Year of Nikola Tesla" must be a reason for us to consider the state of natural science in Croatia today, where the state of financing our fundamental scientific research and applied scientific research is. To ask ourselves whether Croatia can actually achieve world results with this kind of funding of science, or whether that moment does so thanks to the incredible art of our scientists, both in physics and other natural sciences. Or indeed these people at our institutes and at our universities deserve a far better treatment than Tesla had then. Let this be a reason to think as next year we hold various events, recall Tesla's earliest days and his scientific career. I repeat, Tesla's life path is paradigmal for Croatian physicists. There is talent, there is school, everything is great, but when you want to achieve a stronger result, the most common understanding of it is not in Croatia itself. Of course, Croatian physicists, despite the relatively modest resources they receive from the Croatian budget, are still able to be at the world's top today. But I believe that this "Year of Nikola Tesla" will help us all to look at the state of Croatian private sciences, to change the way science is financed and to invest in our natural sciences. Because every investment in natural science, from America to Japan, has been paid hundreds of dollars. So if "the year of Nikola Tesla" is just a convenience and an anniversary, then she's missed her point. If, in turn, there is a reason for us to review how natural sciences and the roles of natural sciences in the development of society and nation, then it has hit its sense. In that sense, our club supports this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47609	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47610	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the SDP Club strongly supports the Croatian government's initiative to declare next year "the year of Nikola Tesla" for all of those reasons which are here for a moment in the statements of my predecessors already cited. Once again the size of Nikola Tesla is not seen in that already quoted sentence here: "O pride in its Croatian homeland and its Serbian mother", but precisely on the fact that Nikola Tesla is a chance to be born in Croatia and from a Serbian mother turns into a universal giving of her own life and the work of the cosmopolitan dimensions. We can be proud that just from this space or in this space, such a true greatness, whose scientific offering to mankind is simply eternal. If they recognize this in other countries of the world, and according to the most recent scientific discoveries confirm all the geniuses of Nikola Tesla and the anti-cipulation of all possible scientific, technological solutions that are now in the 21st century and their more concrete scientific and practical applications, then they say even more in favour of Tesla, therefore, as a cosmopolitan, universal greatness that has contributed to world civilization and dignity. Indeed, what colleagues are proposing, and I think it is also in the intention of the Croatian government when it proposed 2006 "To the Year of Nikola Tesla", I also earnestly support it. The messages of Tesla's life, his work, his actions and his civilizational offering confirm that great talents can be serious, can only be achieved if they have a suitable space for it. And if they don't have it, they just like the water that's looking for a crack have to find someplace else where their creativity will be expressed. It is up to us, in fact, to share this universal space of civilization in a world that is increasingly globalized, not to be a place to go and from which talents, no matter where the human work and action is, will be a word, from which it will or will not be realized. As a country and as a space that has truly produced many great people in various areas of human action, warnings that the fate of Nikola Tesla and what he has achieved in another climate are sufficiently warning that science in this case, not only when it comes to physics or natural sciences, but science must at all pay far more attention than it has been to us so far. In a country where, unfortunately, here at the beginning of the 21st century, we still record almost 20% of the illiterate ones, this anniversary should shake strongly, I would say not only the educational public of Croatia but the entire public that without investment in people, in the development of their potential we do not have a serious chance of participating in the world's civilizational achievements unless it happens to us, so Tesla who, some new Tesla who would once again have to look for space to achieve its own talent elsewhere. So the SDP club supports the government's initiative to declare itself next year as Nikola Tesla, and we will also support quality forms of features and anniversary that really should not be alone and should not only remain at the gesture level, but should also have its concrete content in projects that would help strengthen science and scientific work in the Republic of Croatia in the hope that we will have such programmes and that they will participate as widely as possible, once again support this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47611	Thank you. We're going into debate for 10 minutes. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we all bow to that idea to mark the following year in a decent way and to make the Assembly a sponsor of that idea. For 5 centuries, the existence of a typeographic culture was called the Gutenberg galaxy. The 20th century could be called the electric century or Tesla's galaxy, but maybe this is the occasion when we make this decision to mark 2006 to wonder why Tesla's house in Smiljan and 10 years after the war is still surrounded by mines? It has been restored, but it is practically impossible to reach. Tourists can't visit it and it might be good to dedicate this next year apart from this formal marking and to demining the area around that house in Smiljan. Perhaps we could also do that to mention the house in Gospić and to create an exhibition, a permanent setup, because I think Tesla deserves it. Nikola Tesla's monument, which Fran Krsinić made in 1981, had three casts. One is still in Belgrade, the other is on Niagara Falls, the third that was in Gospić is gone. He's been torn down, and in the last 10 years, we haven't had the will, nor the time to rebuild him. It wouldn't have been easy to do, it would have to come to either that spill from America or this drain from Belgrade, so make a replica. But if we haven't had time in those 10 years, let's have time next year. Let's do it next year, not to mark the year of Nikola Tesla without his monument, so valuable part of Fran Kršinić in Smiljan or in Gospić. And in the end, perhaps this is an opportunity to wonder how many more return settlements in Croatia have no electricity, the invention of Nikola Tesla? Well, let's mark that year with the exception of the Croatian Parliament being the sponsor of that anniversary to give all those places electricity invented by Nikola Tesla. I think it might be the best way to give Nikola Tesla the respect she deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47613	Thank you very much. Here's an explanation, because Mr. Agent just asked it as a question. There are already concrete jobs being done to arrange the space around Nikola Tesla's home in Smiljan, all those who can contribute, and we are also in the process of obtaining the monumental one that exists in Belgrade, so to place Krsinic's monument as it was before. So, not only will this be marked through Parliament's patronage, but it is already being done actively and are the projects and implementation on the ground of certain measures, so that we will be able to open up very quickly and start marking the year, but it is given to a consensual Orthodox church around the house, that all these works can be done there, but also to see how to do it permanently and have one permanent, as I would say legally and otherwise solved that issue around the house, church and courtyard, that is, the part of the terrain around Nikola Tesla's home. It's like an explanation. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47614	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and I join the compliments on this initiative and can imagine one situation that is quite realistic that the spirit of Nikola Tesla is here at this gallery and observes our debate and looks at the proposal of this decision. He'd be pretty disappointed, actually I believe he's really here and she's pretty disappointed and the first thing that Nicole Tesla should do in the year to clean these benches of these papers from Gutenberg's age. So the first thing to see on the display is the order of our discussions, so in the year of Nikola Tesla, we do something concrete by coming from ourselves, because it's a shame that I have to work physically to vote in this assembly. That's the first thing. As for the decision itself, he would be as terribly disappointed as I am. Last night I was in a society of people who were very commendable to our young Minister of Resorno's gesture, he sent a letter to a man who was suffering from a serious illness, he and his son were on the Croatian battlefield, he was in charge of the Croatian School and he received a letter from my former student, Minister Primorac, a letter of support in a grave illness, and he was infinitely happy. Nikola Tesla would be disappointed, because he wouldn't understand why he was proposed. It's called a committee that should imagine what would be celebrated all year round. And Nikola Tesla wasn't counting on fame at all. His mutual material values were somewhere else. Therefore, in the preamble of this decision, we should say what this Assembly is behind, which are the values that we are trying to read from the heritage of Tesla itself. Namely, you should know that Nikola Tesla was an American inventor and scientist. He thinks of his happiest day of life when he's got the American housekeeper. A colleague, Tonci Tadic, abused him a little in an otherwise inspired debate because he declared him a physicist. He wasn't a physicist at all, he was an electric engineer. So he's an American for his life's sake. He is by education, socialization of Croats and ethnicity is a Serb. And the fact that Serbs adopt everything adopted and privatized Nikola Tesla herself. So, the first lesson we can learn from Nikola Tesla's life and work that at that time, let's call it, the Bologna process Croatian schooling or the Austro-Hungarian schooling had two great virtues. He studied in Gospić and Karlovac, where he graduated from elementary school and high school, and at that time there was obviously the ability of traditional teachers and teachers to discover great talent beyond modern testing technologies, mens and other types. So, early socialization, education prepared him for schooling. The second lesson concerns his later education and is related to Croatia's negotiation process with the European Union. He went to school in Graz. He was supposed to be at that time, playing pool fantastically, loving to gamble and not being foreign to his wife, wasn't big enough. And besides, he was too smart for his environment. After that, he went to Prague and started working in Budapest. In one memory, he describes the moment and circumstances in which he invented alternating current. Knowing Fausto's mind was with a friend of Budapest but it's very significant that he made the first invention in post office that also had a major civilization mission in Austria-Hungarian. And he says, I quoted him for Fausto and suddenly a vision appeared to me and almost manically stopped, he started drawing almost as in ancient drama the results of his invention. Unfortunately, however, the lessons we can learn from the fate of Nikola Tesla are not just optimistic and promising. We should form the Nikola Tesla Foundation for Children aged five to eleven who are the most gifted and not only in physics and mathematics but in all natural sciences. He came to America and wasn't adapted. He came in early in the industrial revolution and was abused by fissals, lawyers, his colleagues. In the end, the great inventor did not become the owner of an invention of a radio that was subsequently recognized to him by a court decision in America. Therefore, we must learn the lesson that he died in extreme poverty. Croatia will not create room for the development of new Tesla under the current development strategy. At this time, there are no "Tesla" from Croatia, but about 150 young people who have finished the best universities in the world. One small gesture of your ministry would be instead of celebrating, raising monuments, all of which irritated Tesla and certainly irritated him while he listens to this, it would be simply to try to create conditions, not to develop tourism, hospitality, agriculture to exclude himself from the development project industrial development because then there is no room for economic sciences, neither for technical sciences, nor for fundamental sciences. So we won't have Tesla. For example, what the Albanians have done could be done to create a project by the Croatian dream team of the Croatian dream team from dreams where at least virtual reality would locate and articulate these people who exist in the world, who are somehow related to the homeland at least in the first generation and who could be used in our future situations. And finally about that famous sentence about the Croatian homeland and the Serbian mother. Apparently, Tesla said that as an adult, deceived and exhausted man in his hotel at the beginning of World War II when the Serbs approached him, it was actually about Chetniks and wanted to arbitrate in conflicts in these areas between the then partisans, Ustashas, Chetniks and in this dramatic situation he had enough wisdom to go along with years and life experience but also with the respect he felt for this space. Therefore, gentlemen from the RES would be polite to Tesla if, in a concrete case, you would at least change the preamble of this text so that he did not look so dryly bureaucratic because when gestures are done they must contain and at least effort if not a successful effort to be at the level of the challenge. Therefore, you cannot declare the Year of Nikola Tesla and write an explanation of about one page in a situation where, for example, there are currently about 925 thousand websites on the Internet, about 15 books of which are written by one of eight biographic books. I have three books like that. There are at least one 50 companies in the world who deal with Tesla, who develop respect for him. In the year of Nikola Tesla, we should establish all ties with these societies. One of America's oldest societies before I thought in 2002 launched an initiative to declare the date of his birth as the United Nations on the day of Nikola Tesla. It would be good if this Parliament were to strengthen that initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47615	Thank you very much. It's Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47616	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I think it's this proposal for every commendation. We should commend the government when it does well to declare itself the year of Nikola Tesla next 2006. This was an opportunity for representatives to show as much as they know about Nikola Tesla, which is certainly good. However, what seems to me to me to be a special occasion to point out is a message that this genius scientist who has entrusted the world, a science scientist of natural science, but who was primarily a humanist and who was carrying that message of tolerance. It may be something important and important especially for us and at all times and not in these turbulent transition times. And why do you point this out in particular? So that the whole thing might not eventually turn into grotesque, as our colleague Stazic warned, so that its end, that the end of Tesla's end, which I say, has no electricity, so that its home is not arranged, its environment, demining, the light stage and the pumps are shut down, and then that end sinks into the dark again. And why does it matter? To correct that great injustice, not injustice, but our national shame when the monument to this genius inventor and scientist who worships the whole world, the mined and blown-out paraparcads during the original HDZ government, and in front of his house, that sculpture was one of our most valuable statues, our sculptor Fran Kršinić. For a long time, they were just like one protest, warning the authorities that the monument should be restored, asking Belgrade for outflows to create a new statue. So, this particular protest was expressed by the gallery... where these remains, those parades of our shame, were found in that gallery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, we have now also had the explanation of Mr. Vice President, therefore, not only is he at rest, not only is he in the process of demining but also of rebuilding and the house itself, but he is also doing everything possible to restore the monument, that is to make it new. So it wasn't just this monument that flew away, it was a lot of monuments. In the way he likes to say war madness, and then this way we at least correct national shame and don't push under the carpet, at least we're pulling something out, something I say, that this kind of madness has just been justified by another greater madness that that's what happened in war madness. There was no war madness, or was not supposed to be, was an attack on Croatia because Croatia was defending itself, but for condemnation it was every one, but it was a custom for Croatia to defend itself in this way, it is a shame where this is exactly the opportunity to condemn such actions. Unfortunately, the perpetrators are here as in all these cases unknown. So this is the opportunity to correct this injustice, but perhaps it was right that our giant Krleža, who knew our opportunities well and not our opportunities, so when he claimed exactly about the monument that the monument that had not been built twice, had not been raised twice, he was not worthy of being raised even for the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47617	Thank you very much. In my view, this is not an opportunity to challenge replicas and corrections of incorrect allegations. But if certain tones are given, then we can't stop them. I think we're going to have a normal discussion and if she takes it now, here's the controversy. I don't think that was necessary, but here's Emil Tomljanovic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47618	So I'm going to rephrase the MPs in a way or in a way that Mr. Letica started his own, or actually ended his debate individually, really would be ashamed of Nikola Tesla and ashamed somewhere when he heard this debate and in what way this anniversary really wants to be politicized. The decision of the Parliament and state institutions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Licko-Senj County, the town of Gospić and all people already involved or will be included in this undoubtedly important, important event, significant to the Republic of Croatia, in which way it wants to be politicised and turned into a day-long political farce. I'm replicating because of the fact that I'm correcting everything that the esteemed representative said, I don't know when she was last in Smiljan, but I and her and the public say that it's not so much of a demining problem, on the contrary that everything seems to be from the position of local self-government, regional self-government, so the county of Lika-Senj, that it's not just a question of demining, but that the complex in Smiljan, the home house of Nikola Tesla is being arranged exactly as this great scientist and deserves, and that just in 2006, it begins to mark itself from these positions, therefore, from his home to national level. I would like to conclude my line with this particular sentence I assumed that some representatives from some circles would come to this ground floor politicization of this great, truly great scientist, significant, not only for Croatia and this afternoon but indeed for the whole world. At the very end of the line he doesn't deserve it, he doesn't deserve it either this High House or us as a people. And I hope that this anniversary of 2006 and the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia projected the marking of this anniversary will confirm my thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47619	Thank you. Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47620	Mr. Tomljanovic, you say it's ground floor to mention exactly what happened. I'm not going to tell you or use a word like this for you, because I don't think she's worthy of this House. But the fact is, as much as you want to forget that this monument didn't get hurt in some weather disasters, by earthquakes, but that it was mined, mined by human stupidity. And this is a chance for us here if we're celebrating this scientist right now to condemn such an act. Therefore, calling on the condemnation of this act is nothing on the ground, and then we do no harm to anyone, or we are not honest to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47621	Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47622	I thank Mr. Vice President, namely, I thought it would not be necessary in this way to polimise between us, especially in this observation, in this agenda point, because we all obviously understand and think it is necessary to do what the government has invited and the ministries and of course we will give support. However, colleagues of Anticevic, I do not know and do not want to enter the causes of the hatred that you are showing towards HDZ, so you are trying to input how it is during HDZ's rule, so you are inaugurating HDZ in some way and putting it in line with the rise in monuments. It's like we say now at the time of the SDP's rule there were terrible murders, the son killed his mother at the time of the SDP's rule. What difference does it make? What difference does it make? We all want the culprits for any crime and any misdemeanor to be established. But to contaminate one party it is really inappropriate, I think it falls into the order of those statements that will certainly enter the anals, but not because they were good and positive, but rather by some other estimates perhaps similar to that of your president that HDZ is under investigation. So such statements are completely inappropriate and unnecessary. Especially on a agenda like this. And don't really... The HDZ has no relationship with such misdemeanors because it is simply not true and cannot be linked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there are perpetrators and there are, they need to be found and punished, and that's why we're all together. But this is the way to talk about the party, and at this time, ladies, let's go and remember Smircic, who's been blasting around Smircic?- I'm sorry. You're talking about demining. Who forbade you to place a monument three years ago or I don't know what. Therefore, please be sure to turn to yours, your dissatisfaction and what you have failed to do and miss these initiatives to come true and make your contribution a positive and not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47623	Thank you. It's past 12.52 hours to report in 10 minutes. Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47624	It's not a proper smile. Smiljcic is located near Benkovec. It's about Smilyan. Sir, you're imputing some kind of hatred to me here. I don't hate HDZ either, I don't hate anyone because I'm not capable of hate. However, standing up against hate does not mean that man is in hatred. Therefore, the mere conclusion that it happened and the mention and the reminder that it must no longer happen, and it really happened in that time, and I will not quote it now because it is not really an opportunity that some have spoken on that occasion. You can quote everything we said, but therefore that monument is mined and we know when it happened. And now just mentioning that embarrassing fact you're saying that I hate you here, that I'm talking about hate, that I'm politicizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47625	I will once again express my regret that this debate on the 150th anniversary of Nikola Tesla's birth has returned to such a level. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I have to say this one more time, and I don't have the opportunity to deny those who answered, but I'd rather deny that further controversy about it. Because after the introductions, after the representatives of the clubs spoke so affirmatively and proudly of this anniversary that we reduced this matter to such debates I think it is beneath the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and I express my deep regret for this. The replica of Mr. Krono Peronja. Please refrain if you can do so on the deepening of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47626	Just as Nikola Tesla was a special person, he devoted his entire life to work alone. He didn't have a family. He was not interested in material values and, therefore, it is incorrect and unfounded to call the destruction of monuments a national disgrace. It's a shame. It's sad for that individual, the act of an individual, but also for someone who talks like that. Justice is within reach, and whoever did something wrong will answer against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47627	Answer by Mrs. Anticevic Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47628	It's very short because this is really like this, being so persistent and persistent in that determination not to condemn that shameful act is really weird.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47629	Look, don't take the whole discussion down on the monument. That's the problem. Don't get away with it now, ma'am, from what you've created in this assembly. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47630	I'd rather give up on what you suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47631	Thank you very much. Correction of Mr. Andrija Hebrang's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47632	Thank you very much. I agree that no political debate should be made out of a world scientist, but the records remain for future generations and will correct a great lie issued by the representative, that HDZ is guilty of the destruction of the monuments, you said during HDZ authorities and implicated HDZ. But you said it was brought down by human stupidity. We know that the monuments in Croatia were destroyed on purpose by other intelligence services. Remember the monuments in Mirogoje, remember the bomb in front of the Jewish municipality in Zagreb and the ecocrats. Therefore, do not bring HDZ into contact with foreign intelligence services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47633	Thank you very much. And the correction of Mr. Krono Peronja's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47634	... the incorrect quote does not repeat. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47635	Thank you very much. I hope we've concluded this painful moment in Parliament. In ten minutes, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47636	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My statement will be no debate as such, but an opportunity to say a few words of support for this proposal to the government. So, the government's proposal for the 2006 announcement of Nikola Tesla. In addition to everything our previous predecessors have said especially in the name of my colleague Emil's club, I don't think it can be added much. I would single out only one testimony very interesting and very interesting in fact memories of Ivan Meštrovic at Nikola Tesla and just a few words from his memories in support of this proposal. For Ivan Meštrovic Nikola Tesla, except for everything he'd done in the field of science, he was a normal, normal man. According to Mestrovic, he went to America with no desire and no intention of staying there. He knew the literature of Europe, but best Croatian. According to Meštrovic, Tesla knew Gundulić by heart. From his letters he wrote to me, Meštrovic broke out the language of the folk newspaper. He stressed that he was not interested in money, and his ideal and all his efforts were aimed at benefiting mankind. I believe it's true what fellow Letica said that Nikola Tesla looks at us among other things because Meštrovic testifies that Nikola Tesla is 50 every night, every night before bed praying to God on her bare knees, since childhood. He used to say that inventions are the same thing as art. He says the idea is the right thing to do, and discovery or practical application is just the consequence of that idea or the case. I'd like this to be an incentive for all young people so that their ideas lead them, not to give up on ideas, to believe in ideas. And if you want to, although I'm not into the policy field and Nikola Meštrovic claims to have sharply criticised the regime in Yugoslavia, in the former Yugoslavia. He even offered inventions to defend our coast and the speech should be used in defense. The defense is fair, that's what Nikola Tesla said. And because of all this, it is my privilege and pleasure to join as a representative in the Croatian Parliament to support the Government of the Republic of Croatia to declare themselves next year Nikola Tesla. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47637	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47638	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would first, colleagues Ingrid Anticevic did not say there since she had finished social sciences that she must know that social sciences exist as well as natural sciences. So there are natural phenomena, so heavy cataclysms, so there are social phenomena. There is one disorder in social relations so that all that is happening, and there is such an epithet that we talked about earlier does not need to be attributed to some political groups. So it's one division of society and everything that happens in such an environment is part of this one social cataclysm, one social disorder. It seems to me that there is no one here who is not in favour of such a proposal of the Government, but I have not heard from the motionary from any colleagues so far that it should actually look like everything but a colleague, Tonci Tadic, who mentioned and stood up against some possible, possible event that year, that it would be a good year. It means that it is a quality program designed to have its own not only convenient character, but to have a much deeper social one. Nikola Tesla was a world voice scientist. So, I think it would be logical for a number of scientific programs, namely a number of social initiatives, which would be different for science, especially natural science in our society, to have a different relationship with natural sciences and scientists in Croatian society. That's one aspect of what I'm saying. Another aspect is that Nikola Tesla was one historical person, one who in the past system in the former state was used as a medium to show one size of the previous system, to serve Nikola Tesla as a medium for a single smelter of the people in the former state, in order to wipe it out nationalally. And the aforementioned sentence here just says the opposite of Nicola Tesla's attitude. He was never ashamed of his country or his kin. Since we as a society have a stable and significant problem in the integration of individual ethnic groups, especially after the Homeland War, it would be good for Nikola Tesla to be used this anniversary and to create a programme that will mean one improvement of the integration of ethnic groups, primarily Serbs of returnees into Croatian society. So that they would not be on some margins isolated, but that as such, as part of this society participate. It means that this one component of society is being observed in all of it. And in the end, I'd say the same thing, I think, fellow Stazic. He asked one question, whether it was rhetorical or had some other goal that the area around that house, his in Smilyan, was mined. Yes, it was mined probably from our people who wanted to protect that house so it wouldn't happen if some lunatic came into the air, and Croatia got another slap from which it certainly couldn't be sober for long, long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47639	Thank you very much. Another five minutes in the name of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Nikola Tesla has shown the individual's strength in the best way. The power of an individual who, by his knowledge, talent and genius, managed to outsmart space and time in which he lived. His scientific thoughts, ideas went far beyond Croatia's borders. His discoveries, as we can see, have reached far, not only today, but also the future. Today, when we talk about the strength of an individual, the talent that belongs to an individual, its strength, its inventivity, creativity, and the productivity that is evenly equal, then we need to take care of the time in which these discoveries have arisen. The time of Nikola Tesla was important, but the time of Nikola Tesla today is no longer the same. Today's discoveries, major projects, new innovations, new scientific disciplines do not belong to individuals as they once were. They belong more to organised societies, institutions and all those who know their business future, to all those who recognize the future of states and to increased investment in science, research and development. And many countries today in the world are doing it. And not without reason, the European Union, as one of the fundamental elements of its strategic policy, is linked to increasing investment in research and development. It is expected to reach 3% of GDP. A lot of countries you don't know about are making a lot of efforts. I'll just mention it for example. Nigeria, which in close cooperation with China, launchs the first communication satellite next year. I'll mention this opportunity and the Indian government's programmes. Four hundred thousand young engineers a year. It is a force produced on over 2,000 excellent, best in the world of the Faculty of Technical and Natural Sciences. All of this shows that science today plays a special important role in modern societies, and we need to be wise enough to take advantage of 2006. To take advantage of this wise and important initiative by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the 2006 declaration of Nikola Tesla that it was not all done in Croatia that knowledge and research and investment in applicable knowledge and technology has an increasingly important place. And for this reason, the HDZ Club supports to a full extent this initiative and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, expecting, in particular, the responsibility of all those who are going to design programmes to not only formally mark one important anniversary but also to make it clear that all of these content and programmes are more determined and shared social responsibility, as well as the political responsibility for knowledge to get the right place in society in order to be in the interest of all of us who live in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47641	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the promoter, Mr Jadran Antolovic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. First of all, I would like to thank you for the support you gave the proposal for a decision to declare the year 2006 for Nikola Tesla. And since that was the case, the anniversary was written a lot in the media, and I kept it unnecessary to point out everything the government has done in more than a year's preparation of this anniversary, and I am really sorry that some of the debates could have raised questions about whether the house would be restored, the sculpture returned. For more than a year and a half, it's been working intensively on all these programs, and I believe that it was generally known and should not have been particularly highlighted. But it doesn't seem to be, so I apologize for not undermining it in the opening of my presentation. But this decision is therefore just another step to mark the more worthy next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47643	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47644	Proposal for a Decision on the 2006 Declaration of the Year of Nikola Tesla in the Republic of Croatia I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47645	We move to - Decision on amendments and additions to the Staff of the Postal Services Council - Confirmation This means confirming that Statute. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The mail law. You accepted the proposal in boxes, and the debate was carried out by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. [[Intruder: No.]] Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. Mrs. Koshasha Chichin-Shain on behalf of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, a few words on behalf of the board. At the 33rd session held on 17 November 2005, the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee discussed the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Statute of the Postal Services Council. The Committee discussed the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Statutes of the Postal Services Council as a parent working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. By the start of the debate, so our discussions today on the Committee did not have the government's opinion, since this item was included in the session of the Parliament, the Committee decided unanimously to carry out this debate. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who stressed that these amendments and additions stemmed from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Post Act. The government representative stressed that he did not have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for technical reasons until yesterday, i.e. because of a short period of time, and did not officially agree with the proposals. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament confirm amendments and supplement the Statutes of the Post Office Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47647	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No one answered. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide today, probably, tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47648	Decision amending and supplementing the Statutes of the Postal Services Council - confirming I am voting on a decision confirming the Decision on amendments to the Statute of the Postal Services Council adopted by the Postal Services Council on 19 October 2005. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 92 votes for and 6 abstentions made, the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47649	We move to - Proposed Law on Markets – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading, P.Z. No. 317 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the SDP club decided to propose a specific Markets Act as a specific type of trade. Today, the area of markets is regulated by two laws, the Law on Trade and the Law on the municipal economy. We estimate that this is not enough in this case, but that this area as a specific type of trade should be regulated by a special law. Sales on the market is an area in Croatia tradition. Our markets have a wide network of market facilities that are evenly distributed across the country, so in almost all cities and almost all areas where the agricultural population does not live. Therefore, current markets have material and human resources and can effectively help address a significant part of the problem of Croatian agriculture, especially small farms, with appropriate adjustments to the system. Markets are the oldest instrument of exchange, and their main feature is direct sales, so the direct relationship between the manufacturer and the buyer. Markets enabled the survival of the Croatian village at the time of the village's collectiveisation and contributed significantly to the food security of the population. Today and developed agricultural countries are considering reviving traditional markets and encouraging all other forms of direct sales of agricultural products. There is the view that new forms of supply to agricultural products will improve the quality of supply. In this sense, large trade chains appear in this kind of sales, but they still function only with profit logic and this does not necessarily mean a safe and quality supply of food. Through the development of the market system, there is a need for complementarity and competition in the growing impact of new forms of food supply. The diet of the population in modern conditions also receives an ecological component. The chance of our agriculture is precisely in its ecological acceptability and our agricultural products can successfully compete in this respect with the mass agricultural and environmental questionable food of highly developed countries that are increasingly dominant on our market. In the absence of a food market system in Croatia, markets are almost the only place to inform about prices, offers, demand, almost the only place where daily estimates of life costs can be obtained. If we legally fail to regulate this area, the markets will be getting more and more into the gray economy that we are talking about and the need for it to be contained as much as possible. The government's opinion on this proposal is negative. So the government proposes not to accept this proposal and it is explained that this law is contrary to the laws currently in force under some of its provisions. We know that this is so and we know that this area of trade regulated by the Law on Trade as an area, as a sale outside of a store in one part, and market order and other parts of trade in a market regulated by the Law on the Communist Economy. We therefore believe that it is necessary to pass a new law that would fully regulate this matter. The government itself says there is a certain problem that this matter is regulated by two laws and says it is currently working on a new Law on Trade, that this law will solve and sell in markets. We think and suggest precisely because there is a new Law on Trade in the Government, that this part should be dropped because it is a specific type of trade. This is not only in that trading sector that refers to trading outside the store, because the market can also be shops, so it's not a catalogical sale, it's not a door-to-door sale. And just a few words about the content of the law itself. Articles 1 to 3 of the Regulation regulates the question and definition of markets and concepts used as terminology in this law. Articles 4 to 8 shall regulate the subject-matter of a market such as the provision of space for the exposure and sale of goods, the provision of equipment, inventory necessary for the sale of agricultural products, i.e. for the pursuit of trade activities, the provision of regulated sanitary, health and other conditions, and the provision of other business services. These articles shall provide for the arrangements and conditions for the organisation of markets and for the regulation of the business in the order of the market. Articles 9 to 12 define the retail market. Here we give one alternative, given that this is the first reading and every proposal and contribution to the improvement of text is of course welcome. Articles 13 to 19 also define, with one alternative, the market order which brings it, which determines its content and controls over the application of the market order. Articles 20, 21 and 22 shall lay down the obligations of the market organisers to provide, by means of a spatial sales schedule, separate premises for sale of certain types of goods, depending on the sanitary conditions and to prescribe that the conditions of use of the market services are governed by a specific Regulation. Article 23 defines the market to a large extent these principles of organisation, organisation and business which we believe should be regulated by a special law. Articles 24 and 25 define criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions, i.e. the entry into force of the Law. We believe that it is necessary to pass such a special law because it is, in a significant sense, the interest of small farms, which, with a reduction of costs, can place their products directly on the one hand to customers, on the other hand, is that it is an interest and local self-government, that it regulates the way agricultural products are traded on the market, and thus draws closer to the possibility of buying quality food to its residents. Now, I call on you to consider your proposals, to make the text of this Law better, and we suggest to the Government that, in the drafting of the Trade Act, take into account what we propose and to choose to propose a special law on markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47651	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There is no representative of the government. Yes, sir, on behalf of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47652	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. The Committee for Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 35th session held on 28 September 2005 discussed the proposal for a Law on Markets submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives Club by an act of 29 June 2005. The Committee shall be based on Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. In the opening statement of the proposal's representative, she pointed out the reasons for the submission of this legislative proposal, in particular by stressing the need for a law to regulate market issues as a lex specialis. The representative of the resolution ministry informed the members of the Committee that there is also a market-related draft trade law at the stage of the draft trade law. This draft works with representatives of the profession, Faculty of Economics, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of crafts. For discussion, the Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 26 August 2005. Without discussion, the Committee has put 8 votes in favour of, 4 votes against the Croatian Parliament's decision to propose the next conclusion. The proposal for a market law is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47653	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the proposal of the SDP Club, and here I am saying that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the adoption of this Law, the Proposal for a Law on Markets. And that is because opinions, as the Government has given, have stated in its opinion, that the adoption of this Law is unnecessary. And that's because the existing laws and sublaws of this matter are entirely regulated. In fact, the Law on the municipal economy has established market activity as a communal activity on buildings built on land owned by local self-government units. The law on trade regulates this matter and a sublegal act has been adopted, therefore, the Regulation on the minimum conditions of the premises in which the trade is carried out, the intervention in trade and the conditions of sale outside the premises. All these objectives set out in the introductory part of the Market Law can be achieved in full and in accordance with the existing rules. In particular, we have accepted the position of the resolution ministry, which has been shown to have been consulted by all the guidelines of the European Union on this matter in the draft Law on Trade. So then, when we have this text in front of us, we'll see if it is, but it'll probably get rid of the famous issue of our cheese and cream and selling indigenous peasant products. And I personally think we don't have too much fear about it because we've all traveled to the European Union countries, so we've seen their markets and there's quite a lot of hillbilly and indigenous products on their markets. Just plain, in one orderly system. So, with the assessment that the adoption of this law is unnecessary, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is of the opinion that we should be patient, that we have before us a proposal for a law on trade. Then let's see if this matter is sufficiently regulated by that law. So if it isn't, then if we keep it right, we can think about a law that would be lex specialis, but then we should certainly pay attention to this regulation of the Law on the Communist Economy. Because, here, and from this proposal that is today ahead of us, it is not clear whether the promoter had the intensities to keep this activity as a communal activity, and then leave the market activity, but this clearly does not come from this proposal, to keep under control and in charge of units of local self-government or to put it on the free market. This is not seen from these definitions in the proposed text, so now we have a common definition of what a market is. We have one definition in the Regulation on minimum terms, we have one definition in the Law on municipal activity. We have a third and fourth definition in the Proposal for this Act, and it is also not clear from that Law that this Market Act, which is defined in Article 2 of the market term, is to be sold large and small. In order to define the market for a little while in another article, and somewhere at the end of this text, the law defines the market large and says that this will be regulated, market activity on a large specific law. So these are some contradictions if we were to go into this Law that should be clearly resolved. Also, these final provisions in this text would not be enough and are extremely confusing. Because they say that if they do, the Law on the Communist Economy and the Law on Trade will apply unless otherwise decided. But that's where a total mess would come in. And in the end, what is not defined, I mean neither the existing laws, nor this proposal when it was passed, it's a market space. To define because those definitions are nowhere to be found, which is market space. Because now it turns out that a defined market as a utility, as a utility, could only take place on land owned by a local self-government unit. And I think we all need to talk about it together, whether it's a mistake in the law or if it's really an emergency, we should think about it. Another important thing seems to me is the questionable thing, which is the authority of these market supervisors. So, it's been said, one whole pile of jurisdiction would be in control. So he says, "Controlling the application of the market order to carry out authorised market employees, inspectors of the state inspectorate, municipal redistribution and police." With such powers given in the following paragraphs to the market, as it is called, market surveillance, therefore powers that are greater and stronger than those given by the municipal directors, with the fact that the municipal directors are nevertheless officials of municipalities and cities, they are subject to state examinations, and they are not subject to the conditions for carrying out this job. And to conclude, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the adoption of this law, because at this point it is considered unnecessary, so we propose to wait for the adoption of the Law on Trade, and then when we see how he will be stipling this matter to continue to think about whether we should lex specialis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47655	Thank you very much. We would now conclude this morning's session, with the session continuing at 15 o'clock and the first is on behalf of the HNS club Mrs Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain, and then on behalf of the HSS club Mr Ivan Kolar. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47656	We continue with the session, the discussion of the proposal for a market law. It's Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain's honorary representative on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47657	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is before us and I would like to give a brief review of the proposal of this Markets Act, which was referred to by the SDP Representatives' Club in the parliamentary procedure. It is obvious from the proposed text of the law that when the proposal was drawn up, the applicant used some material already published by the Croatian Markets Association in the book "The Markets in Croatia yesterday, today and tomorrow" by his colleague Slavko Krninčić as a possible legal solution. However, the important difference between these two texts is the fact that the applicant defined by the provision of Article 23 that the organisation, structure and business of the market would be largely regulated by a special law, which means excluding the markets largely from this proposal. A more detailed analysis of the proposed law shows that the applicant knowingly separated the material of the market to a small extent from the substance of the markets, for which the applicant knows it but by reading the provision of Article 5, which I would concentrate on in my debate is the clear intention of the applicant, which is that the proposed solution wants to establish a local self-government unit in relation to the organisation of the retail market. Today, as already mentioned today, this matter is regulated by two laws, the Law on the Community Economy and the Law on Trade and Witnesses, at least in cities, that it works as such relatively well. As far as Article 5 is concerned, I would quote his first part. It says "The organisation of the market, the construction of the market, the maintenance of the space, buildings and equipment in the market function and the management of the market is done on the basis of the Treaty on concessions, the lease of the market space or through a company established by the unit of local self-government." This is what in particular bothered me and I think it would be good for me to ask for the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency. At the very least today, possibly tomorrow, and the European Commission's Department of Trade. I would also like to point out that in point 3 of this law, five groups are defined to which, or which benefits such a law would be passed under those five groups. I would refer here to the indent or point 5. He says: "Special interests of the local community in preserving vital city cores, elemental order, orderliness, hygiene and purity of market spaces and their overall aesthetics of preserving certain traditional values or habits and customs that characterize certain regions and cities and others." Namely, for each market, it is on the premises and owned by the local self-government unit, whether on private-owned premises, it is necessary for such a market to be established and started to operate to ask for at least a local permit, not to say very often and a building permit if, within that framework, individual closed buildings, refrigerators or something like that are being built, and as far as the health and sanitary controls themselves are concerned, we know that this is being done continuously and that this is being carried out permanently, not to say that market inspection works on such markets, whether they are located on private land or on the land of the unit of local self-government. One example, the negative examples that have taken place in the last year, is the example of the market that has been established in the area of the former brick in Črnomerec, an example from the city of Zagreb where the owner of the land or the owner of the brick area has been assigned to one section for sale and there has been a circus of 500 stands with 500 different sellers. So, all of them are very successful in earning and feeding their families, so at the very least 2,000 people there earn for their lives and survival while, on the other hand, the interest of the city, in particular the city of Zagreb, was a very high pressure on the owner of the land and on the owner of the brick, was very large to close the market and to use that space for another purpose. Therefore, it is practically done that the market has just been organised and organised on one private land and I think it is to the satisfaction of both citizens, so also those who use and those who work and I don't see that anyone else should interfere to move such a market or to organise itself elsewhere. Therefore, what makes me personally what I am most concerned about in this law that bothers me is the very monopoly that comes out of it, or proposed by it. I think that, for example, selling used cars can also be organised on private land that it does not have to be the only land owned by a local self-government unit. So, I don't think it's good that I hit the goal of it. Furthermore, I personally believe that there is no need or reasonable reason to postpone the legislative regulation of large-scale substances, especially given that in the conditions for opening pre-accession negotiations with the European Union where these topics on agriculture and the market for agricultural products are among those most complex. Therefore, any postponement, regulation of matter on markets in large agricultural and food products would constitute a serious failure. It also raises the question of the very name of this proposal, which is the Markets Act, which means that you should regulate the markets to a little bit which remains also, and so the law itself would have to regulate the markets to great extent. This law doesn't regulate it. And at the end of the day, maybe just about surveillance. The powers of market surveillance in the proposal for this law have not been fully developed. There are overlapping powers, there are different not to the end of the defined form of supervision and for all of these reasons, but I especially repeat because of Article 5 and the exclusive monopoly of the local self-government unit over the area where the markets would carry out their activities we of the HNS do not support this proposal and we believe that this matter can also be regulated under existing laws and regulations and today, if we go to some law that this Law on Markets needs to be significantly better and better organised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47658	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47659	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow a few words about the Law on Markets of the Proposer of the SDP Club. This is an opportunity in front of the HSS Club to actually talk about the real situation on our agricultural market and general about the care of the agricultural economy, especially the family holding that is both in our strategy and in general as the basis of agricultural production which should produce on its own household products with its own labour force and ensure the existence of its members of the household. In what way? Clearly, it capitalizes what it produces. Since we ourselves know that the village is organized the problem of the placement of small and small agricultural producers is only possible for them at each point of sale, direct sales, direct sales of their products via the market. Or rather, if they're organized through the wholesalers. I am just here for the sake of us sitting here reminding ourselves that the proposal for a national programme for agriculture and rural areas since 14 July 2003 predicted this, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme in... The period and any previous government is otherwise predicting that agriculture requires fast establishment of wholesalers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The beginning of their work, which is an essential condition for the introduction of stability, is the agricultural market that is needed to protect Croatian villages and family economies, especially in a sharp international competition. The fact that we all feel that a peasant like a farmer is exposed to excessive competition. So, it's about the liberal approach of the market and that it takes more eco-social feeling for it to actually be an entity in this society. This proposal for a market law is actually trying to enable the placement of its own agricultural products, so that the farmer can survive. I don't think he's in any way contrary to the law in trade if there's an article that requires the Government to make an amendment if it's necessary to correct it. But more importantly, the markets have not actually had that market order since 1996, there is actually no basis because the law, the Law on Trade, is trying to regulate, so the Law on Communal Law is trying to regulate. In fact, the agricultural producer is a mascara of grace, so to speak, or the mercilessness of a local community, which, by the way, has a hearing for it and could make one step. On the other hand, however, the other law does not allow it. I don't think we should let the markets die the way we all do, and I think we're right as long as we find it to die a bit of Croatian village and peasant production. It is time to talk about this loud and clear, in fact, to protect the especially indigenous products of our products that are already being produced in another yet specific but purely hygienic correct way and that such products must find their place on the market. I think that the markets must also adapt to all those changes that await us, and we are expected to have difficult discussions on the adaptation and accession of the general European Union, and if these markets bring this change to a faster pace, I think that we too would contribute in part to adapting the Croatian village to the coming changes. There should be no reserves against domestic production because I can safely say that it is much more quality than imported food, placed over wholesalers, large systems on our plates in one way or another under various labels or beautiful cellophane and therefore this effort that we need to make I think there is absolutely one positive progress team before we remind that 655 million dollars of deficits in this year as regards agrarian production or better imported foreign goods in Croatia. And yesterday, if we just follow a little economists so much praise that we exported through tourism, we actually imported some of the food and put it through tourism, and we should have done it by domestic production and placed it through tourism. Then it would be a total one exporting and we would all be encouraged by even greater production, for even greater production. So our food on our table, and especially for tourists even more so that there wouldn't be just imports-exports, imports for export and placed over tourism. I think we should support every effort. I already mention for the second time if some parts need to be corrected should enable direct sales to be placed on clear sanitary and technical conditions of this being met. I think we should also synchronous, structural measures to create economically sustainable agricultural economies. This includes direct placement. If we do not train perspective households to direct the placement of our products, even in this way, we have taken away some of their profits because they are addicts of potentially processors, repackers or as they are already called resellers and they do not make their real economic profit. Our little family housewives will admit or we won't exist today. They're under a lot of pressure from competition. The rest of us are practically the only ones making homework so that I can say a product that, despite not creating an economically significant profit, survives, which we rightly say for the reason that we need to protect them because obviously they neither privatization nor conversion nor in one way nor in another has been patched up and remain on their hearth, have already been told here several times both culture and customs which is important to us. And if I had direct access to the manufacturer's market, I think we'd make another bigger step. Large trade chains have already been mentioned, they operate by profit logic and repeatedly reduce consumer supply quality to the lowest possible extent. I think that the composition of the market, the wholesaler, should be one bond where one of these things should actually be avoided so that I can call it which part of our income takes us forever and we're actually getting poorer. Events in our agriculture with all shortcomings have at least kept our agricultural production environmentally acceptable, which must be the starting point for all of us to still be able to produce healthy food but certainly achieve a satisfactory result. However, not to mention how far we've gone from declarative to practical moves to far-reaching because we haven't changed the law since SFRY in order to ensure an ecologically grown fruit and vegetables because we've had to change it since the SFRY and exist in force, so that means we have to adapt at one fast pace to the real moment and follow the trends outside because we've stayed somewhere just on the declarations, we haven't done anything. In fact, we have in our strategy that there should be support for the establishment of producer associations for the marketing of agricultural products. That's what we think of selling agricultural products directly without intermediaries. We haven't actually spent any, and we haven't made a single measure, and this measure in the European Union as one of the strategic measures that encourages this very production. So with the idea and the indication that the SDP Club has made, it should support that effort. In any case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can either fix or make a better turn, so I say an even better proposal to be. But the HSS Club sees in this law or such a law of a similar profile one possibility for direct placement and staying in the country, greater existence and better prosperity of the Croatian village. That's why we're thinking of giving this proposal the support no matter how other clubs think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47660	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47661	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has said that we are only part of the food for tourism purposes. Unfortunately, we import up to 70% of food from agricultural products, fruit, vegetables, food products. It's the latest research, statistics. So it's huge, it's not part of it, it's even 70% that needs us to be deeply concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47662	Thank you. The HSP club is a respected representative of Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just on behalf of the HSP Club a few words to the proposer. I would ask, given that there is still time for this bill to be completed and amended in some parts, so whoever is in charge of writing down certain comments at the SDP club should do so, if he considers that they are justified. First of all, on behalf of the HSP Club, I will say that we support the need to pass such a law and that I do not list everything that my colleague Kolar has so far expressed as arguments about the need to pass such a law from the SFRY to the European Union. So from the law of the SFRY that solves it all the way to the European Union with which we negotiate. I'm sure it's necessary to pass one of these laws. But what seems to us to be such a bill as is, as we have received in the procedure, still does not solve any other issues that are of paramount importance in our court. First of all let me give one, draw attention to something that might seem to be in, at first glance promiscuous and which could be classified into vaccination, but it really isn't. In fact, the term "live food" is used in the law. And the basic law that regulates this matter, which is the Food Act, uses the term food or foods. The term of living foods is not in the basic law, or roof law, which is the Food Act. In that sense, we certainly think that specific laws or laws from other areas must always use the termsology of parent or basic law when talking about the same thing. In this case, then, it would mean that they must use either the term food or the term food, and no living food. I'm saying, even though it looks like one proselytic, and maybe the only reason is maybe the vaccination that really isn't. In fact, whenever such a note appears to be fission it actually constitutes the basis for the establishment of a whole and systematic normative arrangement by a single rule of law. And that means that the same term in different laws is always used the same, not different. That would therefore be one nomotechnical remark, so I would ask the promoter to respect this nomotechnical remark. What we have in our court at the HSP club is that this law, with many good solutions, does not solve, however, there are mainly the purchases. Excessors selling food or articles of general use outside of the frozen and controlled points of the state apparatus. In fact, it is illusory to call on the safety of citizens when buying when very often food that enters Croatia, and I mean fresh food, not canned or otherwise. Where, therefore, such fresh food is not detailed and mainly due to a short period of time, there is no traceability to the manufacturer who produced this food. In other words, you are, in fact, unable to explore the origin of this food all the way to the manufacturer, especially in a short time. Namely, I will remind you of only one very unkind event that took place just over two years ago, and it was that scandalous disease with trihinosis in Istria when it began to explore the actual origin of meat that caused this trihinosis, and unfortunately it began to investigate the origin of post-festum, after actually people were already suffering from, I stress, incurable parasitic disease. So trichinosis, less known to the wider Croatian public, is an incurable parasitic disease. It can be cured at a certain point, however, Trichinella as a parasite remains in the organism human to his death, I mean man, not trichinella. So, always, these people were neither guilty nor obliged to actually be infected with one incurable disease, and then two months in newspapers, courts, and I don't know what not all the inspections were investigating the origin of that meat. And finally, as far as I'm aware of, the epilogue of events has not really been explored where this meat came from and how it ended up in dry-meat products that, pointed out once again, were sold with valid documents and their seals of all inspections, from import to veterinary. Therefore, any indication that all of this is under the control of the sanitary or any other inspection should always be documented. It is evident that most of such food goes beyond soft borders and it was most likely this unfortunate case that I just reminded you of. So good control and control of such food is actually an illusion. In this respect, it should be ensured that those who are allowed to sell on the market, which is precisely the wording in the proposal for this law, in Article 10, who are allowed to sell on the market, so I will not quote it. Therefore, this is all the same as Article 10 and, in particular, fruits and vegetables and other products, they must be able to show market supervisors as referred to in Article 19 of this proposal and other inspectors the document proving the origin of the product. Of course, it doesn't apply to your own products, because as you know cheese and cream are... Therefore, this applies only to those imported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our court, therefore, the alternatives to Articles 14, 15 and 16 which are proposed are not acceptable and our club would recommend that it remain a basic text, but that the basic text emphasizes this problem in particular. In order to monitor the application of the market order it is prescribed in Article 19 to be carried out by authorised market operators, therefore market supervisors, inspectors of the State Inspectorate, municipal redistribution and police. In our court, the supervision should also be authorised by sanitary inspectors who also care for the safety and health of people, and their powers are certainly also potential subsequent justifications for the weaker application of the law due to insufficient number of controls. So let's include this group that would have the right to control and sanitary inspectors, so that's enough. In any case, only a clear solution to the issue of shoppers in the Law on Markets can be supported by this bill, as this will achieve a good arrangement of the system, an increase in the income of the state, a control of the safety of products and food for human health, and thus certainly savings in the latter, the wallet of end-users or citizens, and if this problem in the second reading is solved satisfactorily, the HSP club will support the proposal of the Law on Markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47664	Thank you very much. There's been a debate over clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47665	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for a law on markets directed by the SDP club and which is in front of us, I believe that given the existing laws, the Law on the municipal economy and the Law on Trade that it is unnecessary, as well as the position of the Government that we have seen around us. The reasons why the proposal was managed are as follows: the achievement of the food safety of the population in the adoption of agricultural domestic production, the promotion of small holdings and organic production, the protection of the interests of the citizens of the users of services and the protection of the interests of local self-government units of municipalities and cities, etc. However, all these interests, all these objectives are achieved in an appropriate manner through the existing legislation, and I believe that in this proposal, in particular in Article 5, the elements that would in some way lead to some confusion in this part, mainly by giving priority to market access when it comes to concessions, in fact when it comes to markets, it is not strictly said that they must be built on land owned by a local self-government unit, meaning to a municipality or city, but rather to the advantage of concessions and can be said that there have been cases and attempts by certain units of local self-government to form new markets with existing markets, which would de facto mean that they have forced certain trade chains which would thus place import goods in such areas under the retail market and de faco peasants to the individual production and all of their consumer products to the consumer. In any case, when it comes to markets, I believe that they are municipal buildings that can be built through concessions, but in the first order that the city, the local self-government unit, should be built on the property of the city, or municipalities. As for all that may or may not be sold, and as proposed in Article 10 and Article 12 of the case, I believe that there is also some confusion and that a wide range of goods can be sold, and that is not in the spirit of tradition since when it comes to markets in Croatia, regardless of whether it is continental or coastal Croatia. The government's position is that the existing legislative regulation properly treats this issue, although I believe that a new law should, and this is also highlighted, be passed. In this new law which will certainly be and should be compatible with European legislation, when it comes to the Law on the municipal economy, and in particular when it comes to the Law on Trade and I think it should be one chapter that will deal with this topic, sales means problem and retail sales to the markets, I believe that in this way we could also preserve tradition and that such a proposal for a law can be compatible with the legislation of the European Union, with the acquis of the European Union. I think that in this way we will preserve our tradition and protect the interest of peasants, the interest of individual food producers who will be able to further place surplus products in a way, but thank God under control when it comes to the sanitary dimension, but also when it comes to each other, because all goods, no matter where they are sold, must again be subject to the rules, or the Law on Trade. I don't think this SDP proposal is going in that direction and I don't think I'm going to be able to stand up for it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47666	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47667	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The colleague said that this SDP bill is defined as not to be sold in markets. I assure you that this is a good proposal, because in the tradition of our markets or at least those real markets is about to sell agricultural and food products. Unfortunately, if you were recently at any closed market in the Republic of Croatia, you have to sell everything from needle to locomotive. You have, for example, and we all stand hard and fight everybody's work on Sundays, so that, for example, it doesn't turn out when we talk about others, at a market in the town of Varazdin on Sunday morning you can buy from shoes and on. If you think these are products that should be sold on the markets for a little bit, it's quite the opposite of the spirit of our tradition. Take a look at the markets and down the coast, and even in the continental part, to sell different crafts products, all that does not belong there, and domestic agricultural goods or domestic goods in general, so they are not the problem of the market that will be founded or the concession that someone will receive and build a new market. For example, in the town of Ludbreg, you have a market they built and the city has a concession, there is a private person, i.e. a legal private person who founded the market. However, it is essential that we sell there, and unfortunately both domestic and external trade chains are largely dominated by external goods. Whoever did this can talk about it. So by supporting this bill, we're going to get more domestic goods on the market, but not to sell what we're all opposed to, which is that on Sunday instead of the side of the chain you go to buy shoes on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47668	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47669	Well, in Article 10, the way it's conjectured, I said it's de facto to sell everything. It is descriptive, and if we look at these four items in the way they are conceived in the bill itself, they make it possible to sell various goods, and I don't think that's good. And I will certainly say when it comes to markets, that in Article 5 I will repeat again, you wanted or did not want to bring market elements into a sphere that should be and what is the general thing, which is the public service in some way and where the interests of the city should be protected, but also through the interests of the city protect the interests of the people living in the area and who sell some of their products in the markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47670	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47671	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's a few words about this bill. First of all, I think it is necessary to support the intention to regulate a particular market in this part of the law, especially when it comes to the agricultural product market and in a certain way to give our farmers an opportunity to get to the market. I think that in the direction in which this law speaks with certain supplements and with certain changes, it is certainly possible to take the extra step needed to make this whole matter and what is already clearly mentioned here. Our biggest problem is that sometimes we have a surplus of our agricultural products, especially with our agricultural producers, and that in another way we have those enormous imports that have already been spoken of here. I had opportunities to participate in certain projects, as well as in a major market project which was one national project at the level of the Croatian state. Where are your projects, so I'd say, and we've successfully started, for example from Rijeka to Osijek, where we've had good results. But what always gave me the biggest problem was the market and wholesale market in the City of Zagreb. And what I'm going to say here, appreciating this good proposal from the SDP Club, I say, with some supplements that are needed, I've had the opportunity to talk to all those who have acted in power in the City of Zagreb, and unfortunately I've never encountered an associate who was ready with the law and without law to clear up what's called the "green Mafia" in the markets. Clear up what's called "resellers" on our markets. To launch an action that would allow our agricultural producers as well as it stands here in this Law, so that they can place their goods on the markets. That's why I think it is most necessary if this law is certain to go to another reading but it would be the most necessary overall political will and not only of this highest legislative body, but also of the overall political will of local and regional self-government. Our cities in particular, and here I am particularly emphasising the City of Zagreb. We must bear in mind that the largest consumer of total agricultural products, when we speak, is the city of Zagreb for sure. And then it's very sad and sad when you have to see that our farmers around the City of Zagreb can't get in the markets or their place to sell, but they have to be in some way, only the ones who will be adding to some of the big bosses who have already rented these market places and are somehow buying and reselling from them. And that's a problem that hasn't been solved, that's a problem that's been around for a number of years, almost a few decades, and we're not going to face it. So here, in the end, we support this law of course. I think it's a good idea for him to supplement himself because he has some sort of technical deficiencies. It would be good for him to be offended because what's written in the book from which he's prescribed I think there's certainly his supplements in that part. But it would be very good to think carefully about applying certain things. It will not be enough for us, and this will now tell us these experiences about many other laws that we will have to pass in the future, for example these European P.Z.E. which is not only enough to bring to the Croatian Parliament, but we will need to apply them in practice. Therefore, any law that already has a certain content in practice must surely be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47672	Thank you very much. Final review, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47673	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Finally, on behalf of the promoter of the SDP Club, I would like to thank all the clubs and individuals who have taken part in this debate, within the framework of this Law, and especially the clubs that have recognised this initiative and supported it with the aim of... I need to speak louder. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I especially thank the clubs that supported this initiative, recognising it for a better, better quality and more precise arrangement of relations in this area. Of course, our wish was for a greater sensitivity of all, and especially for agricultural producers who, in the spirit of tradition, have respected all these problems that respected colleagues and colleagues before me have said. To boost first and foremost direct sales and better arrange the placement and the domestic goods in the markets. Of course, all these additions that you, dear colleagues, have said will be installed in the final proposal of the Law, if the same goes into the second reading. And if that does not happen, I would like to believe on behalf of the promoter that the Government will take into account all of this by law and this debate and that, at the very least, the process of passing the final law that will regulate this area, which is unquestionably necessary, will be speeded up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47674	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the proposals of the labour authorities, I am voting on the proposal of the Markets Act, the following conclusion is not accepted: "The proposal for a Markets Act proposed by the SDP Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies shall not be accepted." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 71 votes for, 3 abstentions and 25 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47677	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In accordance with Article 93 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals each year submits a report on its work in order to inform the Croatian Assembly of the observed irregularities of violations of the legal provisions, as well as the rights of citizens in the proceedings before the state administration and bodies. In 2004, the Committee received and processed a total of 2 thousand 375 performances. Of these, a thousand 85 written content, 720 phone conversations, and 570 citizens were admitted to the interview. This represents the number at the 2003 report level. In particular, the report points to a large number of presented statements, i.e. complaints in the area of pension relations and social care users, from which the difficult existential problems of a part of the public can be identified. The long term of judicial and administrative proceedings as well as the inability to execute powerful and executive judicial decisions, do not execute the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia by administrative bodies, particularly the ministries. Increased inflow of health care and health insurance performances compared to the previous reporting period. A solution to the issue of the purchase of dwellings of tenant rights holders related to the Ljubljanska Banka. Ownership and legal relations especially in relation to the return of assets. And hard employment, especially young populations. During the reporting period, the Committee held a total of 9 sessions to discuss the performances, i.e. complaints of characteristic content, and pointed to violations of human rights of citizens, taking certain views accordingly and drawing conclusions that it had made to the competent authorities in order to take action to address certain problems. As the most important case discussed at the Committee session, we highlight the presentation of citizens who have tried for 13 years to buy the apartments of the former Ljubljanska Banka. The Committee's initiative ended the process and nearly 30 families managed to buy apartments on which they had a tenant right. The Committee has also often considered the problem of returning exiles and refugees to the Republic of Croatia as well as the return of their property and, in accordance with the law, took certain views and reported to the competent authorities. The Committee also dealt with the problems of judicial proceedings, particularly as regards citizens' turning to lengthy proceedings, resolving legal disputes before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the Committee has often sent haste to ask that procedures be resolved more quickly, especially when it comes to the rights of Croatian defenders. On 29 June 2005, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals reached a unanimous conclusion at the 11th session that a report on the work of the Committee for 2004 was adopted and proposed its adoption to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47678	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Jelena Pavicic's Vukicevic. She's gone. The club loses its word. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47679	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief, the HSP club will normally support this report, but what's most important about this situation report is unfortunately the same as last year's report. It points to the cancer of the Croatian society, to the lack of functioning of the rule of law, to the problems of dissuaded Croatian citizens, whether it is a matter of pensioners, workers, youth, Croatian defenders who have entered the mazes of bureaucracy before whom everything they try always comes to a closed door and the fact that there have been phone calls and the fact that the authorities of the state administration themselves must warn themselves that they are obliged to implement the judgments of the Administrative Court is sufficiently indicated and that everything they try to do is not only within the framework of justice, related to the long-term existence of disputes with the Administrative Court of Croatia, but also to the relationship of the state administration itself with the Croatian citizens in that part, which is the most important in the exercise of law, and we have seen how much part of the relationship in the area of the right in the framework of pension insurance of various social issues, and that requires all good and deep concern, because it is, in a certain manner, and with respect of the law of law of law that we cannot be addressed to the law and in order to the law of law, and in order of law, and in order of law, and in order of law, and in order of law, that we must be able to impose, and in order of law, and in order of law, and in order to impose, and in order of law, and in order of law, and in order of the law, and in order of law, and in order to impose, and in order of law of law. We have tried something these days, but this applies to regular courts, does not apply to the Administrative Court, and even to the Penal Code when responsible persons, whether in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, whether in the ministries or other state, central authorities of the state administration, do not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but rather in fact. These are the old things, the Administrative Court makes a decision, then the ministry to which the decision applies again is moving from the beginning and it lasts after 7.8 years, we have a variety of cases and various cases. If we are satisfied with all these findings, we accept the report, we have not done anything to take action and react how to bridge and how to reach this bureaucracy, and all this means we have seen various reports and about corruption and everything else, all this has been done and the citizen knows what the situation is and then asks for connections and this case, but we also know that it is well here that the Committee has managed to resolve and the question of buying out the housing rights for the citizens around the Ljubljanska banka and of everything else means that something can be done, but unfortunately we also know that the Committee does not have some great competence in terms of imposing the authorities of the state administration and others, and it can only go through requests, proposals and everything else, but I think that we should be deeply concerned and commit to the government to take effective measures, because in all reports and this committee and earlier, we will probably, if we do something, we will only be responsible, we will not have to have a major problem with the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47680	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just have a few words. This Committee of Parliament for Presents and Appeals, the citizens of these performances, they send it, they process it, they can't accept it now but a report like this, because the question is, and what the committee does in the first place, the committee is largely powerless. That's what we're reading here. We can accept that report, we'll accept another year's report where the same cases are likely to be described, only the initials in them will change. To see that kind of progress, you can't see it. There's actually this whole report is a description of a Kafkian situation. A small powerless citizen in front of a vast, vast, bureaucratic state. And what do you want him to do in a collision with that country? Nothing. He usually pulls out the thick end here. Perhaps the most illustrating example is described in the case under regular number 13, there is also that unfortunate number. He says this, a description of the case, Mrs. K.K. from Zagreb, she asked for help with her advice to improve the social situation in which she lives. During a short period of time, she lost her husband and daughter behind whom the debt was due to the treatment of her daughter. She also spoke to the Social Services Center, received one-time assistance. The peace is not enough for her to live and direct. Measures taken. In connection with this problem, the Committee contacted the Social Care Centre in Zagreb. The outcomes of the solution. The board received a comprehensive statement from the competent centre and thus the subject was resolved. We don't know anything if that lady still has life today, she doesn't have life, it's a typical ratio of red tape to a man whose existence may be compromised. There was a comprehensive report from the Social Care Centre that first gave the lady one-time assistance as if some single aid could help her. She can't solve her problem, and then when this board came to her, the center sent a comprehensive report. That exhaustive report to the missus won't make it any better. Nothing, not a bit. The other big subject we've been dealing with here in Parliament for days, it's the judiciary. Here again, the work of the courts, again unsolved cases, no topic, no so to speak of the law, no area to look at, and not to encounter the same problem, the courts work slowly, civil rights, the rights of the people who dispute before these courts are threatened by the slow work of these courts. And now what is being found in this report? The great reform of the judiciary is under way, so we hope for a better one. And what reform of the judiciary? What happens in this judicial reform that these cases don't last that long? What? Who can tell me what happened? What did we do, what did the government suggest, and we adopted here to make these cases less than this year? There's more. Now there are a million and a half unsolved, a million and 600 thousand. There were millions and 300 grand last year and we're talking about judicial reform all the time, we're doing judicial reform. Here is what we expect from this great reform of the judiciary results. So you citizens care about judicial reform. They don't care that their objects are being solved, not that they're piling up and there's more of them. So, and here in this report what can the board say? In all of these performances, attention is paid to the fact that the Croatian Parliament cannot or should not interfere with the work of the judicial bodies, and therefore cannot give citizens the answers they are looking for. There is no way that neither the parliament nor the government nor the public nor the journalists are involved in the work of the court, except that Gredel is to be involved, no one else. And of course, until nobody gets involved in their work, we won't have a million 600 grand like this year. We'll have a million 800 a year, then two million unsolved files. It will go on forever because the citizens are in front of these courts. You know, courts are no longer in Croatia, they are no longer a forum for justice. They became a body of injustice. For forgive me, if things don't work out, if this is how the writings build up, we can't talk about any justice in those courts. Therefore, it is only with regret that we can conclude that the board has learned what it has learned from these notions, that it has given us a correct report as it is correct. We can accept this report but there is no great benefit from accepting such reports and from writing such reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47682	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47683	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of fellow Stazic, who had just said that judicial reform was actually of no use, that more and more unsolved cases. It's just not true. Many indicators suggest that the number of objects is decreasing. Here, I'll be free to read one document from the Municipal Court of Slavonski Ship which I received at the end of 2004 to the land and book department of this court was 10 thousand 881 unsolved subject, that received new... There are currently 19 cases, etc., in a suit of unsolved thousands and 19 items. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not true. This is only one indication that it is not the correct finding of a colleague who just said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47684	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47685	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, we have an institute to correct the incorrect allegations and we have not yet introduced an institute to correct the exact allegations. Once introduced, such inaccuracies will be able to correct exact figures. There was an increase in the number of unsolved files and an increase in the flow of files to courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47686	Thank you. But have... It was a service transfer, so I couldn't hear you, so then I couldn't react. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So immediately on the trail of what my colleague Stazic was talking about, given that I am a member of this committee myself, and I must say that the board is working with a lot of enthusiasm, unfortunately, with little results. I must now, given that it has been said that my colleague Stazic is saying that I personally consider that from the reform of the judiciary at this point nothing. Come on, they can also accept all those who say that judicial reform has far gone, but if we are reading final or final discussions here, everyone is complaining about the slowness of the courts, and that is, the inadmissible slowness of the courts, and even when, without the desire to influence the work of the courts, they are referring to requests from the board to speed up procedures or to obtain data. A respected colleague, perhaps from the reform of the judiciary has something, but small people unfortunately do not still feel that reform, probably not for some time yet, regardless of statistics that she or she, the former or present or any future government will say. Statistics are one thing, but it often cheats because small people who wait for justice and that is why they come before the board with their performances have nothing to do with it. What should concern us all is that if we look at these characteristic cases that often happens that the Croatian Assembly has given some bodies, certain associations public authority and at the same time they are deafened when they need either the Committee on Presentations or any other state body we can imagine and ask ourselves and you how they treat small people if they simply as you see the case description number one of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction has not yet been manifested. Well, we have the Ministry and that, it hasn't been obvious yet. We have a law on the right to access information that clearly does not respect exactly what the Government and this Parliament are paying. So, what are we talking about, judicial reform? It's a story for little kids. That is why it seems to me that one of the conclusions of such reports that is correctly addressed because it must be acknowledged that the committee is trying to really work with a large number of people at our sessions would really come from people who have exhausted almost every opportunity to come to some kind of a justice. But it remains as a conclusion for us to punish either through the Parliament or by the authorities, the other competent state bodies of those who simply do not respect the procedure, who do not respect the rights of people, but I must say, and if I am stressing one more time, I think it is extremely important. If they're so comfortable and I can say freely, I apologize if I've hurt someone, even insulting and rudely treated one of the Assembly committees, then the most normal thing is that in a completely different way, they treat small people even more unkindly. I warn you of a case under regular number 15, it's one that shows us unfortunately that often times I don't go to the present or the former government, to anyone because it's trying to influence that these things change. Unfortunately, however, with too much success. For example, it is said here that people have complained about shakaning, that outside of working hours the noise is increased, it is often also for the usual restaurants that are in buildings and work longer than working hours. And imagine strange wonders, usually when it comes to measuring noise levels, it's one of the examples I know because people in the city of Varazdin have complained to me that usually those who need to measure it probably come along with some kind of announcement just when that noise is gone. And who gets hurt? A little man gets hurt again. Therefore, the conclusion of all these concepts that are, people complain because they lose all hope and let us not be surprised that they are then going outside the Republic of Croatia and with us Croatians and Croatian citizens are dealing with both in Strasbourg and in all other locations until those who do not carry out their duties are punished for their unhappiness, they will not be publicly called for what they have failed to do or do until they have this state. And we'll have another week and a debate about the state budget. There is a possibility that we can talk about then and the state administration because the most common thing here is about what we can call or consciousness called state administration about those who complain about small wages often don't work. Come on, I hope we see that in the budget for next year. Let's raise the salary at the state administration, cut state administration, and then be both efficient and rational and make these performances as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47688	Replica. Dear Representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47689	Well, I agree with most of what the esteemed colleague said, so that means that I would ask the same support that we all appeal to the government to task her with building an action plan and how to sort out the state of government. How and how to place red tape in the position of Croatian citizens rather than be a purpose to themselves. And that's why I'm obviously, especially glad that Minister Schuker is here, so he'll be able to do something about the budget himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47690	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47691	Well, I thank you for understanding fellow Kovacevic, I think that would be a good time, that happy circumstance that the minister is here but not just for the state administration or for what we can do. But here we have I have set an example, but also for those who are given state authority, on the basis of these state powers they do have many times great rights, and as we can see they have small responsibilities and obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47692	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. On the eve of the days of memory of the victims of Vukovar in 91, memories which, let me say so in this High House, yet I am particularly experiencing. I have a right to, but I don't deny it to anyone. I want to look back on this report. As shown in the report, the Committee received 2375 submissions during 2004, i.e. complaints. I believe that given their importance and for the country as a whole, it is particularly important to look back at two areas covered by the report. These are property legal relations and reconstruction and return of exiles and refugees. The data I hold important for the highlighted fact that a total of 18736 housing units have been returned to... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a particular problem, I point out that more than 20% of the above or exactly 3357 houses are still empty today because the owners have not taken over their property. For example, the Ministry owns as many as 1200 keys, objects that have been evicted from temporary users whose owners have not yet taken over their property. This data could easily read that the political tensions created at the stage of the emergency eviction of temporary residents in order to enable the owners to move in do not correspond to the real situation on the ground. For the Croatian state, it is a good indication that problems do not lie in the lack of political will by the institutions of the state but that they are on the other side and much wider and more complex. In 2004 and the first four months of this year alone, 2960 houses were returned to their owners, given the costs of alternative accommodation that were present in finding a solution for those who were in those houses and the total legal organisational effort needed in this area, it indicates that the overall government policy in this area is being well implemented and given significant and concrete, all visible shifts. Government policies and resources of the state budget, in areas of special state care, have so far been resolved and taken care of, 11.000 903 families most of whom were temporary users from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. The truth number of 21 thousand requests that still need to be resolved suggests that there are still plenty of work to be done and that more significant resources will have to be invested but it should be pointed out that there is a significant share of former tenant rights holders among the 21 thousand outstanding claims. In the 2005 budget, for these purposes, significant funds amounting to 422 million kuna were provided and in December 2004, the government once again demonstrated its readiness and strong political will to continue the quality and long-term successful resolution of this issue by the government until 30 June 2005. I would like to point out here that it is looking at areas of special state concern in the 2005 programme for the reconstruction of 1200 dwellings in residential buildings, the largest number in the city of Vukovar. The ministry has also established lists of priorities outside the area of special state care for which the ministry will buy a number of apartments on the market since there are currently no apartments available under the POSA programme. All of this points to the fact that on the one hand we continue to have complaints from citizens about the dispute between administrative and judicial authorities regarding the return of property and on the other, that we still have results that no one can dispute and deserve to be evaluated in Croatia and the international public. In these days when negotiations for full EU membership are open, Croatia thus proves its attachment to European values, which certainly includes the inviolability of private property and the protection of private ownership integrity. Given the war and all that he has brought with him, the problems we face and are not easy to solve but a series of data from this report indicates that we are on a good path and that we are recording results that no one can dispute. The second area I particularly wish to address is the restoration and return of exiles and refugees, which I hold to be two inseparable chapters. I'll start with global data. A total of 134,000 destroyed or damaged houses and apartments have been restored since the Homeland War and the establishment of full sovereignty in Croatia, and the value of this reconstruction is 14.9 billion kuna. The restoration of such proportions required significant and financial and every other effort and the price and burden of this renewal was borne by all citizens, especially the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about 2005 it should be said that it is a restoration of just over 9,000 housing units and that 8200 housing units from the reconstruction programme for 2005 and 830 housing units whose reconstruction started last year. It is true that we still have 9400 unsettled renewal requests, however, most of which should also be resolved by the end of this year. From this number of 1300 applications submitted by 2001 and 8100 are new applications. Of the 16200 new requirements, therefore, in the new and extended deadlines for submitting a solution is 1/" and 50% therefore, the other half remains to be solved. The funds provided for in the 2005 budget were very significant. A total of 672 million kunas, of which 619 million kunas were for the restoration of higher-grade homes and slightly more than 53 million kunas for the restoration of lower-grade houses. This adds to a further 678m kuna from the state budget for the reconstruction of municipal and social infrastructure and only to the return area electricity project, mostly with Serb returnees, the Ministry and HEP will spend 50m kuna by the end of October this year. And finally something about the return of exiles and refugees. Since the beginning of the 95-year process, a total of 332 thousand 968 returnees have been registered in Croatia, of which 216 thousand exiles to most Croatian nationalities and 116 thousand 597 minority returnees to Serbian nationality. In the structure of minority returnees, the largest number of 84 thousand and 478 returnees from Serbia-Montenegro, 23 thousand are displaced persons in Croatia's Podunavlje while 8000 are 414, 416 returnees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Out of those nearly 333 thousand returnees in status and care, the Ministry has 5 thousand 363 or only 1.5% of the total number that I hold with the result of any recognition. Only during the previous 2004 period did 12,000 478 returnees return to Croatia, 58% of whom, or 7 thousand, 295, constitute returnees of Serbian nationality. In 2005, we recorded new 2091 returnees, of which 69 Serbian nationalities. I feel one piece of information about the obligation especially highlighted. Of the 5 thousand 100 exiles in Croatia today, a thousand 69 are from other parts of Croatia, and as many as 4 thousand 31 from the Croatian Renewal, or the city of Vukovar. This means that 8 years after the peaceful reintegration of Croatia, the situation is renewed so that 80% of all Croatian exiles make up people from this area. I mean that in the reconstruction of the Croatian Renewal and the city of Vukovar the state has done a lot, but there is still a lot of work to be done until the full recovery of this situation and that we must not give up in that part. We have no right either to those who defended Croatia there and laid down their lives, but neither to those who are still in exile in autumn 2005 and are still waiting for their return. In addition, the overall data from the return on property and return of refugees, as well as the 2004 and 2005 indicator, point out the very significant funds that the state of Croatia has invested primarily in decommissioning from the state budget in order to address the overall consequences of war damage in this most sensitive and important area, which are citizens directly affected by the war and the removal of these consequences and the creation of preconditions for the full normalisation of life in these areas. And in the next few years, by the end of the negotiations and Croatia's entry into the EU, I believe that the state and the current government headed by Prime Minister Dr Sanader should continue on this path and finish the job because he is in the interest of all citizens. Both because of the healing of old wounds and because of the creation of an atmosphere of a secure legal economic perspective, which we all have to strive for, where each of us needs to make a contribution within the limits of our opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47694	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative Jelena Pavičić Vukičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There, and I personally participate in the work of this Committee on Presentations and Appeals, so I would like to say a few words and, in fact, the nature of our work. So, in 2004, the Committee processed a total of 2 thousand 375 plays and complaints, and I really believe that the report was very high-quality and that it was particularly well-processed precisely those specific items that we were working on at our 9th session of the Committee in that year. ... In fact, I would like to put an emphasis on this debate in one other place and I would like to point out that both the professional service and the committee that dealt with these 2 thousand 375 concrete life fates, with 2 thousand 375 concrete problems for those people who tried to solve their problems in many other instances and actually failed to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is about those frustrating situations in which people from all parts of Croatia have failed to find a way out anywhere, and eventually they have addressed the committee in the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia, which adopts laws that are very often broken in practice. Of course, I don't consider that just a feature of our system. The fact is that it happens in other countries, but I actually believe that in these other countries it does not express impotence as often as in our example. I would like to stress that representatives of different ministries have mostly been competent to give interpretations in those situations where the ministries could just give the final word. Unfortunately, however, the meetings with the same intensity were not answered by representatives of state-owned companies, nor by the representatives of private companies, and it was very often difficult to establish the right situation. In his work, the Committee also faced the problem of having a hard time addressing someone. We had such a case that one union representative who should protect the interests of workers' rights, say one company in bankruptcy warns us as members of that committee, as members of the legislative body that the Committee must act in accordance with the law and that there must be no pressure on the judicial authority. The Committee can't really put pressure on the power of justice. But here's the fact that you can put pressure on a legislative authority that cannot continue to put pressure on either the executive or the judicial authority. The fact is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not burdened by this trio of authorities and that they actually expect us to be in their disposition in those situations when they cannot get out of their own problem. So I think that the Committee's work is just a link in the chain of responsibility for all of us to our fellow citizens and it's our duty not to consider this pressure, to consider it our obligation. And, of course, in our future cooperation with the ministries and with all the interested parties in these proceedings, I would like to stress that there is a lot of understanding but that the fact is that we can no longer turn our heads from some of the problems as if we are not actually the ones to which citizens can address. Sometimes we, I say, are the last instances citizens address and the pressure that we can put on different government positions in the state I don't think is negative, but that all must be a positive incentive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47696	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club, the esteemed representative Stanimirović for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47697	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on Presentations and Appeals gave its work report for the past year. We have seen from it that the opening remarks speak exclusively of Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament where he reports the Croatian Assembly to violate the legal rules. It points to adverse consequences that are of broader importance. It proposes taking the necessary measures to remove them. It is also evident that in 2004, this Committee received and processed about a thousand 73 plays and written complaints, 570 citizens that it had been accepted and 720 phone calls were made. The report noted several of the most common forms from which the most performances and complaints came, which are primarily housing-communal businesses, property-legal jobs related to reconstruction, the programme of assistance from the government of the Republic of Croatia to the return of refugees from BiH and the return of refugees to Croatia. Then, on socio-health policy, on the work of courts, and on local self-government and working relations. As regards this first point in housing and public affairs in all submissions, citizens often complain about the ineffectiveness and slowness of local authorities and courts at all levels, and it is related to the assignment of apartments, raids, restoration of war-torn houses, interference with the peaceful use of apartments and others, and the problem of illegal construction. The question arises as to what the appointed Committee has taken and pointed out to the Assembly regarding violations of the legal provisions and what the Croatian Parliament has taken to remove the adverse consequences that are of broader importance. The second point is about property-legal relations and in this chapter is primarily about the return of private property and the slowness and administrative and judicial bodies. Although the legal deadline for the return of private property expired in the end of 2002, it was not fully done until today, although it must be recognised that a great deal of progress has been made in the past year and the owners have been returned 1 thousand 312 houses of temporary users and about 500 cases of unlawful use of property. It is not possible to take the impression that a priority was given to buying APN houses, 1,292 in 2004 compared to building buildings. If we add up another thousand and a hundred houses that were returned in 2005, then there is a total of 4 thousand houses that have been returned to their owners. The appointed committee did not point out to the Assembly a whole series of violations of the legal rules, nor did it highlight the right of the owner above the right of the temporary user. By coming to their property, many owners face insurmountable difficulties in seeking the temporary users of their assets, certain investments and facilities allocated to which they do not have the right because it was the government that managed the abandoned property and gave it to temporary use. The appointed committee had to point out to the Assembly those phenomena, and then take the necessary measures to remove irregularities and the owners of the release of those claims. The housing of former tenants are complaints and complaints that are most often and most numerous, and the item in the budget for this purpose in 2000 is not even touched and this kind of care outside the area of special state care has not even begun, and the same situation this year is because the process was not even started at the symbolic level and the funds are also in the budget for these purposes provided for in the amount of 44.4 million kuna, which is enough to buy about 500 apartments, which is all of the approximately 10% of the intended amount. At present, there are over 9,000 housing claims, 60% of which are in areas of special state concern and about 40% outside of it. As for rebuilding the houses, it can be concluded that up to now, 136 thousand 380 destroyed houses or apartments amounting to about 15 billion kuna have been renovated in the Republic of Croatia, with a total of 8,000 houses being restored last year, in a large percentage of returnees of Serbian nationality. Another 16,000 new renewal applications were submitted during the extended renewal period over six months last year, with 9 000 700 of which were specifically resolved, with about 7,000 and 800 requests remaining unresolved. At this time, it must be concluded that there are complaints from earlier years in the second-degree procedure for about 10 000 880 requests which have been resolved in the first-degree procedure negatively because they were a questionable residence, a category of damage, co-ownership, incomplete claims, the death of a party and second, which again comes to this committee with a request to assist in speeding up the procedure with the competent authorities, as a second-degree solution is waiting for several years. Thank you and cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47698	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47699	Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2004 I draw the conclusion: "The report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2004 is accepted. a year." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 93 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47700	We move to the next item of the agenda - Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency in 2004 in accordance with Article 21. The Financial Agency Act, the Supervisory Board, submitted that report. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Representative for the Proposer, Minister Ivan Shuker, chairman of the FINA Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, before you there is a report of FINA for 2004 and since the government has no objection to this report and that financial indicators are moving in the planned sizes, let me just point out a few of the activities that FINA had in 2004. So first of all, I'm thinking about negotiating the collection with HEP, T-Co, Diners, RBA savings and others that have significantly enabled easier and better business for citizens, i.e. Business and payment of the population's accounts without compensation, and in order to achieve this and to be efficient, work in 23 branches was also introduced in the afternoon. As a result, the number of citizens' orders has increased by 20% compared to 2003. The number of ATMs serving FINA was also increased by 35% compared to 2003. Namely, FINA is a market... in this business with about 50% market share. The redesigned and application of the Treasury, for the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has also improved support in the State Treasury system and established a register of budgetary users. The first and second phase of the projects of the cash centres in the Republic of Croatia was also completed in collaboration with the Croatian National Bank, which aims at a more efficient, cheaper and rational processing, distribution and supply of the money of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia. In 2004, it is also very important to note that unfortunately, to data from local self-government units, so for concessions, water extraction, extraction of gravel, exploitation of mineral goods was very difficult to come from, however, at this time, the unique concession register in the Republic of Croatia has over a thousand and 100 concessionaries, so that the system can be monitored and the resulting effects of this would be the introduction of order in the exploitation of both mineral and mineral resources and the effect of the second, greater income in the budget of the units of local self-government, as well as in the state budget. Technical preparations were also carried out in 2004 to implement the HITRO-HR project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reduced the procedure when the company was opened from 12 to 15 so on. steps or tours of various offices, that can be done today practically in one place, and the time period of a few months has been reduced to just 7 to 15 days, in most cases even 5 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47702	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antičević-Marinović:
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47703	If the HItro project in all cases reduced its conduct by 12 to 15 steps and significantly reduced that number of days to achieve and get its service, it is incorrect. You have an example. Here is a regulation that the Government, instead of a certain deadline as prescribed by the law, has only adopted after seven months of a regulation laying down all the matters that HINA will deal with in the HITRO project and you have one absurdity that HINA, that it is possible for HINA to submit a request for a book, and then HINA will bring it to the court. So you've just extended the path from the applicant to the court, because the applicant can do it himself, but the thing is just charges, so we're going to see how much that's going to cost the citizens. If the HItro project in all cases reduced its conduct by 12 to 15 steps and significantly reduced that number of days to achieve and get its service, it is incorrect. You have an example. Here is a regulation that the Government, instead of a certain deadline as prescribed by the law, has only adopted after seven months of a regulation laying down all the matters that HINA will deal with in the HITRO project and you have one absurdity that HINA, that it is possible for HINA to submit a request for a book, and then HINA will bring it to the court. So you've just extended the path from the applicant to the court, because the applicant can do it himself, but the thing is just charges, so we're going to see how much that's going to cost the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47704	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The Croatian Democratic Community Club, the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47705	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the 2004 FINA Business Report. In 2004, FINA reorganised and confirmed itself as a leading service institution in the financial sector, became an inevitable factor in economic life in the country and a leading partner in the state to realise projects of national importance. FINA is successfully transformed into a market-oriented monetary institution. In 2002, FINA lost its monopoly position as its successor to ZAP, and business banks are fully taking over the role. It should be noted that income from payment traffic has been a downward trend of around 10% to 15% a year in recent years. In such conditions, FINA successfully turned to changing, adapting and developing new competitive products and services that preceded the necessary internal reorganisation. This new organisational structure is set up as a mixed organisational structure with elements of the production sector, i.e. the business sector, functional, support sector and territorial organisational structure, therefore, the business support sector. This kind of organisational scheme has proved to be very successful and effective especially if it takes into account very large territorial distribution, so business seats, business offices and branches throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. A large number of products and services very well technological, communication connection and a large number of employees over 5 thousand. In view of changes in the organisational structure, financial indicators of business in 2004, revenues and expenditures could not be shown by organisational units in comparison with 2003. This is why they are shown in total at the level of FINA and by sectors, as well as in the relations of the plan-fulfilment. Total revenues in 2004 were made in the amount of HRK 49 million, down by 7% compared to 2003. Here, however, I must return to the 2003 business report, when the revenues from REGOS were made in 2002 invoiced in 2003, the incomes from the agricultural census are one-off and will no longer appear. If income on these two items is exempted, which account for 97 million kuna because the revenues were exceptional benefits, shown in 2003, then revenues were made in 2004 at the level of the 2003 achievement. On the other hand, the total expenditures incurred in the amount of 945.6 million kuna are lower by 4% and compared to the plan and from the achievement in 2003, which clearly shows that, when spending, the funds were managed rationally. In such conditions of business, the net profit of HRK 81.5 million was also achieved, which means that a very good result of business was achieved, i.e. the profit was increased by 6% compared to the plan. The net profit achieved under the FINA Act is distributed 50% for the state budget, 30% for the needs of activity development, 20% for general reserves in the Agency. This distribution of profits allows insurance of around 24 million kunas of initial means to improve work through new investments. Speaking of investments, it is necessary to say that in 2004, more than 130 million kunas were allocated to investments from which 41 million were invested in IT equipment, which is very commendable because in the very sharp competition in the financial services market, there must be a monitoring and introduction of new technical and information equipment. In particular, I must highlight the dedicated and committed work of the administration in the new business organisation, the staff strengthening through organised professional training, training and the introduction of new products, i.e. new types and forms of financial services. As a state-owned institution, FINA will continue to carry out tasks and provide services to state administrations and institutions. In this direction, it continued to form different registers and to compile databases that would facilitate the work of the state administration, but also for entrepreneurs and citizens. This latter specifically refers to entrepreneurs, that, in one place, in a very short time, they can produce the documentation at least the costs they need for their work. Finally, we believe that the organisational and structural changes in the business that took place in 2004 will give financial and other effects in 2005 and later years to the following. Due to all of this, and based on the data from the Report, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club estimates that FINA did very well in 2004 and believes that it should continue to be supported in the implementation of business policy and in the future. Because in the end, we must not forget that a large number of professional and trained workers who are ready to accept new challenges and who are engaged in large material goods, buildings and equipment that should be effectively used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47706	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47707	It is simply not true what the colleague claimed, that FINA successfully transformed in 2004 and so, whether it became a market-oriented monetary institution. Since the very beginning of its existence in 2001, it has progressed from day to day. And its success is nothing special in 2004 compared to other periods. However, in 2003, FINA was ready to play, except for these jobs, in the role of commission companies, I would say, in such a way. Or areas where exactly the execution would help in achieving the efficiency of the performance in this way and at that time until private companies reported. However, here...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47708	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47709	...it's her, that her ability didn't come to terms because the law abolished it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47710	Thank you. Don't argue. The HNS Club's esteemed representative, Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will focus on the FINA development strategy, which is essentially the leading "outsourcing" partner in the area of finance, and the country's leading partner on projects of national importance, as was the case at the beginning of this 2004 report and within the framework of the strategy and defined. Does this report and his comparison with 2003 go exactly that way? I will start with FINA's financial results for 2004 and in line with the company's vision as the leading "outsourcing" partner. In Chapter X, page 15 of the FINA Banks Banks Agency, which accounts for around 50% of the total FINA income in the trend is a decline and is a decline of 8% compared to the one planned for 2004. By adopting the Law on Payments and the FINA Act, FINA has lost its monopoly position for carrying out payment traffic, and since then payment services have also been carried out by business banks. It is seen from the attached that the revenues from the bank service sector will grow every year, i.e. that the banks will take over this type of business in their business and through Internet banking in the near future. Given that the FINA network is wide-ranging in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it employs a large number of people in the business network, the question arises as to what activities the FINA administration intends to compensate for the loss of participation in payment traffic, and how to secure a job for a total of cca 5 000 and 100 employees who are employed today in the FINA network. In view of the fact that banks are becoming more and more involved in cash operations and are increasingly taking over and supplying their businesses with cash from their own sources, a total of 70% of FINA's revenues for 2004 of 517 million kuna for banks and 194 million kuna for cash transactions, the area in which the commercial banks aggressively enter, and each year they reduce exactly the market share of FINA in these businesses. I believe that without adequate restructuring and a clear definition of the strategy in this segment of financial operations, FINA can come into serious problems that would ultimately result in the possible layoff of employees. As for the other revenues generated by FINA, they are customer services for the state, they are constant and in a trend of increase. However, I believe that they have experienced their maximum and that they cannot compensate for the lack of income from payment and business with cash from bank services. I'd like to remind you here, what I often repeat from this pay phone, about how much of the financial market is in the hands of foreign banks today. It's spinning somewhere between 95% and 97%. It is symptomatic that in dealings with countries where FINA has no competition, such as the State Treasury or REGOS, the deadline for payments from the state is increased compared to 2003, almost 250% from 117 days earlier, to today 303 days, which certainly causes problems in the liquidity of FINA. I would particularly refer to the chapter showing the realisation of the investment in 2004. I also looked at the 2003 report, and it is noticeable that in 2003, FINA failed to realise the investment plan, and these investments are realised as a percentage by around 30%. The structure of the planned investment concerns the most that most investments are planned to invest in construction buildings, if it is considered that there is a very high participation of construction facilities in the balance sheet of the FINA. I believe that the structure of the planned investment does not guarantee the achievement of the FINA strategy with which I started this debate, so the ausorizing partner. In addition, the low level of realisation of investments indicates an unquality preparation of documentation for the needs of the realisation of these investments, an unequivocal finding responsible for the implementation of investments or, ultimately, the lack of a vision. As for the profits that have been shown in the amount of 103.6 million kuna, I consider that this amount is more the result of the reduction of the accounting depreciation that has been shown with 45 million kuna than in the previous year than in good business results. Finally, I would say that, given the importance, knowledge and infrastructure it owns, the number of people employed must be defined as soon as possible and determined by the activities that will enable it to achieve the strategy set out at the outset, which cannot be seen from this 2004 annual report. Before I can conclude, I'd just like to comment on something about information. These days, there are a lot of talk about informing both FINA and the information of various banking systems. At the very least, not wanting to de-polmise about anything else here, I would like to warn you that what is very important, that these systems are compatible, so we are not going in from whom they will be ordered and who will exercise control, names and conditions in our banks, but what is indisputable, very important that these systems are preferably complimentary, and it would be good to keep that information inside of this country without going out. We will see what the 2005 report will show in which we have witnessed the establishment of "one stop shop". There may still be some hope and we from the HNS will support this report for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47712	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Antičević. There's no need. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47713	Here, very briefly, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In any case, I will support this report on FINA's business in 2004 for several reasons I would like to mention and point out very briefly and clearly here. Well, it definitely showed in 2004 that the financial agency is ready by offering its services and services in the payment system to be a significant financial operator in the country. In business terms, this year profiled several business objectives which clearly direct further transformation flows, and ours could say that the state institutions that work primarily for the state, but also for the business banks, showed their strength and its, above all, infrastructure that no bank in the whole country has, and therefore I think that such infrastructure as has a FIN of 125 thousand square meters covering the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, from Umag in the west to Ilock in the east, from Dubrovnik in the south and the Mursko Centre in the north, then also with me in Međimurje and through such infrastructure is recognised as an information connection guaranteeing the speed and speed and reliability of the execution of the most complicated and demanding requirements put before it. It was this fact, and it was probably what offered the government that in 2005 finally the task that you and the Government had set up and put before the FINA was brought to life, it was the launch of the "one stop shop" institute, or "quick HR" and no matter how much anyone had something against this institute "quick HR" shows from day to day with all the applications being upgraded to that initial one, that one service that would benefit in a very recent period, not only business entities but also all citizens who would be able to use this product that came into life, was created in the FINA and that during this government Dr. Sanader certainly showed something that many made fun of during the very announcement of the founding. Finally, once again I confirm what I said at the beginning that thanks to highly educated experts from different areas who have proven themselves successful in the management of various projects, this report must be accepted with hope that in 2005, when we have a report on work in 2005, we will show that the Institute "quickly HR" has also contributed to making this business report even greater in scope, i.e. to be even better than it was in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47714	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov. He's not in the assembly. He's losing his right to debate. 5 minutes on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47715	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will only look back at these corrections of incorrect allegations, in fact, in my presentation on behalf of the club, I said that FINA was successfully transformed into a oriented monetary institution, so I did not claim to have transformed. The procedure is ongoing. Why? Because in 2002, when the FINA Act was adopted, which became the successor of the Payments Office, then a clear strategy was needed to compensate for the lack of income because FINA had lost its monopoly position. So, 10 to 15% of a year is lost on payments, I think it's a lot to consider that payment transactions in the FINA income structure were over 50%. So I think when the law was passed then it was necessary to determine which revenue would compensate for the loss of payment turnover. What happened? It happened that banks took over what you often like to say to foreign banks. Exactly. The loss of FINA's monopoly position was used by normal banks. Why? Because banks are first, so legal persons' deposits are with banks and FINA can only be a mediator. It is certain that banks will not leave that payment service that is extremely paid without risk. Therefore, this was to be taken into account. FINA has lost a monopoly position, a monopoly position we can freely say they've won the banks. That's what this is all about, and that's why I'm still staying in the process of transforming FINA successfully, so this process is still going on. As far as investment is concerned, I don't think investment should be criticised at all. If in 2003, 98 million kuna was invested in investments in 2004. 130 million kuna, so 33% is an investment increase. How those in FINA will deploy these investments, to which I think they are responsible and that they know best what to invest in, that they should not get involved. As far as I'm concerned, I'd still mention it because it was said that there was no clear strategy. Then it should be said that the strategy of the former administration was to reduce the number of employees by a thousand and five hundred people. I think it's a lot at this time when we're talking about reducing or reducing the number of unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47716	Replicated representative Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. I'm sorry, he can't replica the club. We've concluded the debate with this. The vote will be later. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. We skip the Report on Pension Markets in the Republic of Croatia in 2004 according to the opinion of the Government you received on the benches until the Agency's advice confirms the report in accordance with Article 95. The law on compulsory and voluntary pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47717	Annual report on the management of the Financial Agency in 2004 gives the opinion: "The Annual report on the operations of the Financial Agency in 2004 is accepted. year." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for and 11 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47718	So we are going to - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 We will work until 17:30 as I was informed by the President of the Parliament. So we move to the next item of the Agenda Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004. The report shall be based on Articles 129 and 139. The Pension Insurance Act was submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr Mile Rukavina Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47719	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! The report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 has been brought by the Administrative Board of the Institute and the Vice-President has already stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had no objections to the report and the parliamentary committees of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health also had no objection to the report. The report you have in front of you contains numerous data on the state of the pension insurance system based on generation solidarity with the presentation of statistical data and the analysis of the situation. The report also includes data on the organisation of the professional service of the Institute, on human potential, information technology of the Institute, financial operations of the Institute, the review of the portfolio of the Institute on 31 December 2004 and data on the exercise of the right and the work of the professional service of the Institute. The novelty in this report is about work and business, compared to earlier reports, a review of the implementation of the report year's work programme to see exactly what the service has achieved compared to the planned one. Retirement system status, something about him. The pension insurance system constitutes a legal framework that regulates the way in which the risk of age, disability, death, the fosterer of the family, as well as administrative and institutional arrangements for the implementation of the pension insurance. The importance of pension insurance is reflected in the economic, social and political life of the Republic of Croatia, is reflected in the number of insurance payers for pension insurance, in the number of pensioners and members of their families living on pension and the amount of pension insurance expenditure and their share in gross domestic product. The characteristics of the status of the pension insurance system are as follows. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The first characteristic indicator of the state of the system in the share of total pension insurance expenditure in the gross domestic product in 2004 was 12.7 gross domestic product and the average in OECD countries was about 10%. This indicator in the past few years has been one of the significant factors in the growth of public spending in the Republic of Croatia, however, it should be pointed out that a slight drop in the share of pension insurance expenditure in the gross domestic product has been continued since, for example, in 2001, we had 14%. This shows that there have been certain favourable movements in this part of the system and that there has been a halt in the growth of public spending in the pension system. The peace insurance shall be financed from the ongoing payment of contributions and revenues from the state budget covering pension expenditure incurred under more favourable conditions and specific regulations and financed by the lack of first pillar income due to the introduction of the second pension pillar. That's the amount of 5% that's being paid into the second pillar, so-called. the transition cost of pension reform. Total revenues in 2004 were made in the amount of 26 billion and 74 million and increased by 5.7% compared to 2003. The total income structure in 2004 accounted for 57%. That's about 14 billion and 870 million, and the revenues from the state budget are 42.4%, just over 11 billion, and the other revenues of 0.6% are at 151 million kuna. Income from the state budget, I would point out, although it is known that they relate to the pension of certain categories of pensioners, pardon, in sum of 44.9 million or 0.41%. As we know, the law ceased to apply on 31 December 2004. Then the revenues relate to the 100 kuna supplement and plus 6% which is as we know included in the pension. Then, on the basis of individual capitalised savings, the second pillar amounts to 2 billion and 314 million or almost 21%. For pensions made under more favourable conditions of 2 billion and 113 million, Croatian defenders' pensions from the Homeland War amounting to 2 billion and 727 million, and for the Retirement Law to eliminate differences in various pensions achieved in different periods of 2 billion and 379 million. Total expenditure in 2004 was 26 billion and 11 million and increased by 5.3 compared to 2003. In the total expenditure structure, pension and pension income expenditures amounted to 97.7% or 25 billion and 412 million. Other expenditure on employees, material expenditure and capital expenditure. The peace and pension incomes achieved under the general rules account for 75% and pensions made under more favourable conditions and special regulations account for 25% of total pension and pension income expenditure. The peace and pension incomes through regular harmonisation increased by 5.72% from 1 January by 1.65 and from 1 July by 4%, which required around 864 million kuna. The second characteristic indicator of the status of the pension scheme is the ratio between the number of insurance and pensioners. On 31 December 2004, the pension was received by a total of one million and 65 thousand pensioners, while a million and 460 thousand insurance companies were recorded at the same time, making up a ratio of 1:1,37 of pension and insurance users. Here we should stress that the same ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners in the last three years as it can, which shows us that these negative trends have been stopped in this part of the pension system. The total number of people eligible for retirement in 2004 was 40 thousand 513, a reduction in the number of new users' inflows by 11% compared to the previous year. Therefore, this segment also sees a trend towards stabilization of the system. The level of pensions relative to salary as a fourth characteristic indicator, I would indicate the average pension. The average pension in December 2004 was reduced for taxes and taxes with an added bonus of 100 kuna plus 6% was 1820 kuna and 31 lip, which accounts for slightly less than 42% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in December 2004. I would certainly point out that there is also a report in order to compare with some European countries that the share of the average working pension in the Republic of Croatia, working pensions for men with 40 years of retirement, means full-time, and 65 years of age was 64.45%. They do not fall significantly behind for some European countries, such as Belgium 66.1, Denmark 68.4, Finland 66.2, Slovenia 70%. This data refers to 2003. I point out that this system status indicator is not satisfactory or better said is not fully satisfactory. However, I would like to point out that it is under 1. The Republic of Croatia inherited a pension system with a high level of rights. Mild conditions for the exercise of rights and a high level of pensions with a range of benefits for individual groups and this system would be inappropriate to its economic opportunities. Under the 2nd pension rules applicable until 98, they were eligible for such movements. Under part 3 of the economic and social difficulties was resolved through the pension system, resulting in a reduction in income and an increase in pension system expenditure and an increase in number under the quotes of "young pensioners".". This is best seen from the fact that only a little more than 14% of pensioners made a pension with full retirement. As a direct consequence of war aggression on the Republic of Croatia, the number of disabled and family pensions has also increased, which also causes high expenditures. This should also be complemented by unfavourable demographic movements not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in other European countries, which also have a long-term impact on the increase in the number of pension beneficiaries, and in particular the level of pension. Something about organization and human potential. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a public institution established by the Pension Insurance Act with the task of carrying out compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. However, in addition to regular work, which makes it legal and legal to carry out further or to carry out child allowances, in which this right, to all users and to decide on the requests of new users, is being reviewed each year. For example, in 2004, in 247 thousand users are extras for children for 466 thousand children. The Institute is still implementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in which another translation of the rights of those users is expected this year under the new Law and the translation of the rights of defenders under the 2001 Law was also carried out in 2004. The Institute also implements the Law on the exercise of the right to pension insurance of persons employed and authorised officials as well as other laws specifically governing the rights of pension insurance, the rights of MPs, the rights of political prisoners, academics and others. The Institute also carried out operations in connection with the implementation of the obligations under the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decision of 12 May 1998, i.e. having calculated the debt or compensation to the pensioners and created the conditions for implementation in the life of that Act and the Retirement Fund Act, as well as for the final implementation of that Constitutional Court Decision. Something short on professional and administrative affairs of the Institute and on professional service. The Institute's professional service is organized on a territorial basis, in central and regional establishment units with outposts. The central service shall carry out a secondary procedure other than part of the implementation of international contracts and shall carry out joint operations for the entire professional service. The area services shall be subject to a first-degree procedure, the exercise of pension insurance rights, parent records transactions, means the start, termination and change of data during the insurance and other transactions determined by the Statute of the Office. On Day 31. 12. In 2004, 3,262 employees were employed in the professional service, only two employees compared to the previous reporting period. The data on the structure tell us, this is what I said in the last reporting period that according to the age of life the structure of the Institute is quite unfavourable and that the Institute belongs to the service, the Institute belongs to the category of older services. With various measures, we are trying to improve this situation, and one of the strongest is the introduction of as many young trained personnel as possible, and this trend will continue to improve this situation. What I would particularly like to point out is that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute as an institution is about to be restructured as part of the reform of the entire public sector in the Republic of Croatia with a view to the growth of institutions into a modern and professionally equipped public institution, for the implementation of pension insurance that will also be ready for equal cooperation with such institutions of other countries when Croatia joins the European Union. The reshuffle study was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and is in the development of an operational plan for the reconstruction of the Institute. One more thing about this reshuffle. I think it is certainly important to note that the reconstruction of the Institute into a modern institution we want to transform the Institute into a modern institution, a public institution that will be a reliable, quality and fast service for Croatian citizens in achieving their rights. In connection with the exercise of rights and the work of the professional service, it would point out that during 2004, 584 000 rights requirements were resolved both in foreign insurance and in child support in the first and second stages. If you add jobs to achieve the rights of Croatian defenders and the implementation of other regulations and rights, we can talk about a huge amount of work in the office. 495 thousand demands have been resolved or close to 85%. However, we believe that this situation can be improved and in progress is what we have done for a certain time, the implementation of a single project of up-to-dateness, it is a project of systematic monitoring of the emergency with a view to increasing the level of service, the quality and number of services in the office, the number of services provided by the Institute. And we believe that this will lead to better results in the future. The state of portfolio of the institution is described in Chapter 5 and may just point out that in 2004 the Croatian Privatisation Fund was managed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the basis of a share management contract and business shares since 28 July 2000, and part of the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Investment Company owned by the Institute. In conclusion, I would just point out that we at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are aware of the importance of roles and tasks that the pension system has in Croatian society, its economic and social importance and all our knowledge and abilities will be directed towards future implementation of our tasks in a legal and professional manner, taking into account the rational management of the funds in accordance with the purpose for which the Institute is established. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47720	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? He's gone. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected applicants of this report, or bringers of this report. The pension insurance system is an important part of the social security system in the Republic of Croatia. The movement in pension insurance and its development depend on the overall economic, social and geographical developments in society, as well as on the regulations governing the system. The importance of pension insurance is reflected in the number of insurance payers for pension insurance, the number of pensioners and members of their families living on pension, and the amount of pension insurance expenditure and their share of gross domestic product. In the framework of the pension system, social security creates more than a million insurance and family members for the risks of age, disability, death of family defenders or physical damage. The system also ensures professional rehabilitation of disabled workers. Until the reform of the Croatian pension system was a one-part, public and mandatory system based on ongoing financing and predetermined contributions. The main objective of the reform was to establish an economic sustainable system to ensure social security for risks of age, disability, mortality and responsibility of the state level to an individual who needs to be more concerned about his social security in the future. In line with these objectives, instead of a single-part public system, a mixed, three-part, public-private system was introduced based on generation solidarity and on individual capitalised savings. The system is financed from the current payment of contributions and from the revenue of the state budget, which covers expenditure on pensions incurred under more favourable conditions in other regulated expenditure laws, and the lack of funds to be paid in the second pillar of 5%, i.e. the transition cost of pension reform. Total expenditure in 2004, without Croatian defenders' pensions, amounted to 23 billion 284 million of which relate to pensions and pension incomes of 22 billion 685 million kuna, means 99.97% of the planned funds under which the amount of 205 million kuna related to part of pensions paid through institutions, etc. transfer of pension abroad. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the institution in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. In 2004 pensions and pension incomes increased by 5.72%. In the total revenue structure, revenue from the contribution was achieved in the amount of 14 billion 872 million kuna or 63.7% of revenue from the budget amounted to 8 billion 323 million kuna or 35.65%. The peace and pension incomes achieved under the general rules account for 75% of the total expenditure on pensions. On 31 December 2004, the pension was received by a million and 65,6555 users, and the insurance company recorded a million 460,000 105 insurance companies, which makes up the ratio between pensioners and insurance companies of 1:1,37. The average pension in December 2004 was a thousand 820 kuna and 31 June. The average pension rate in the average net salary of all employees in Croatia in December 2004 was 41.8%. The average amount of allowances for children in the period January-December 2004 was 266,86 kuna. The share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product in 2004 was 12.7&a, while it was 13.4% in 2003. The total number of new pensioners in 2004 was 40 thousand 513, down 11% compared to the previous year. Croatia inherited a pension system with an extremely high level of rights that is inappropriate for economic movements after '91. A year. Unfavourable movements in the economy, war and transition have led to a deterioration in the ratio of the number of contributors and beneficiaries of pensions. For example, in the 1970s, pensions amounted to about 65% of the salary and contributions rates ranged from 14% to 15%. At present, even 20% is not enough to finance pensions of about 40% of the salary, which means that for a significantly lower level of pensions compared to wages, there is a significantly higher rate of contributions than in previous years, so the younger generation is making an increasingly unfavourable ratio between the amount of contributions paid and the level of pensions. I'll say something about that a little bit later. I mean, I'm just the generation that gets hit. In addition, part of the pension system caused a reduction in income and an increase in pension insurance expenditure and an increase in younger pensioners. Movements in the pension system were influenced by the rules governing that system as stricter conditions for the achievement of pensions were introduced, gradually increasing age limits for retirement and early retirement, a gradual expansion of the accounting period, which facilitated unfavourable movements in the pension system. For the first time in 2004, after years of continuous deterioration in the number of ratios, the ratio of the number of pensioners compared to the number of insurance workers was slightly improved and is now 1:1,37. In the coming years, the movement in the pension system will be increasingly affected by demographic movements or by the simple ageing of the population, which is a trend not only with us, but a trend throughout Europe. This will be expressed to a greater extent when a generation born in the middle of the last century will be retired. In particular, it affects a generation born somewhere between 1950 and 1955 to which the second pillar or extra charge in the second column brings nothing positive, and the example is done by a highly trained agronomist who spent 35 years of work in the City of Zagreb's City when today he gives his pension to the budget he could get to be calculated somewhere around 1.700,00 kuna. Of course, every coming year is actually getting worse and worse, and that's how it goes until that moment until that generation that started and calculated to pay them into the second pension column. I say that right in front of that population, those generations between the ages of 50 and 55 because they, they plead for that particular generation to return the reckoning that would not take into account the full years of so-called internships, but would take into account the model that we had earlier in the budget for the last or the best 10 years that received in their 35-year employment. Unfavourable demographic movements were one of the reasons and reforms of pension insurance and the introduction of Generational solidarity and pension insurance financed from capitalised savings. Question of status, portfolio of the Institute, availability of shares between the Privatisation Fund, former Ministry of Public Works, Capital Fund d.d., business of the Croatian Pension Investment Society d.o.o. and Capital Fund d.d. and manages the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund based on the stock and business share management contract since 27 July 2000, I think it is insufficient and unclearly processed, so it would be useful to request a special report which would fully answer the questions asked earlier. We from the Croatian People's Party will, of course, support this report, but I must tell you that what might be our viewers and listeners or our public is more important to inform, that what the Croatian People's Party will do will happen when it comes to power and when Cacic's affirmation as prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47722	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Darko Milinovic will take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47723	Well, it won't be so soon. But respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 discussed by the Croatian Democratic Community club. So the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is founded and established to exercise the rights of employees, farmers, craftsmen and other persons covered by compulsory pension insurance, based on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. Its importance is also seen in the fact that it actually cares and cares about the achievement of the pension rights of a third of the population of the Republic of Croatia in total somewhere near a million and a half thousand insurance companies in the home register. The system also ensures professional rehabilitation of disabled workers, thus enabling their further economic activity and preventing their social exclusion. Movements in pension insurance as we heard from the predecessor, of course it is related to the overall economic, social and demographic movements in society as well as the regulations governing the system. The report is and is not a concern yesterday about the proportion of employees and pensioners who are true this year are somewhat more favourable and is 1:1.37, last year 1:1.36 and this ratio points to a large number of pensioners in relation to the number of employees, which actually makes additional pressure on and such a burdened economy in the Republic of Croatia. In developed European Union countries, this ratio was 1:3 and the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product compared to 2003 when it was 13.04 gross social product was also reduced and in 2004 it was 12.7%. So the negative trends are somehow mitigated, but there is also an optimistic forecast in the report that we do not expect to see an accelerated growth in the number of pensioners in the coming period, and the number of insurance companies will, of course, depend on the country's economic developments. It is important to point out the provisions of the law under which an add-on of 100 kuna plus 6% was included in the pension, thus improving, but still improving the social status of pensioners who have achieved their pension since 1998, and the change in the way pensions are coordinated exclusively with salary growth, as well as the increase in personal deduction to 3 thousand kunas has improved the situation of all pensioners in 2004. Also in 2004, a law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 98, establishing the difference between paid pension income for the period from September 93 to December 98, and in the calculation of the difference, the resources paid in addition to the pension from the entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act were also adopted. Reimbursement of pension beneficiaries will be implemented through a special fund, and the law on that fund seems to have been passed and passed in the last session. The Office is managed by the Administrative Council and in mid-2004 the entire composition of the Governing Council was resolved and new members were appointed to hold 7 meetings of the Governing Council during the second half of 2004, to rebalance the Financial Plan for 2004 and the Financial Plan for 32005 and to consider the State Administration's audit report on the financial reports carried out on the operations of the Institute for 2003. Although it is not the subject of this debate, it should be noted that we received on the benches a report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the activities undertaken to remove irregularities in the findings of the State Audit Office for 2003, from which it can be read that the administrative board has acted on the findings of the State Audit or has continued to act. A number of issues in the field of work of Croatian Pension Insurance d.o.o. and Croatian Pension Investment Society d.o.o. legal persons owned by institutions established for the management and management of shares and business shares in the portfolio of institutions. Despite the principle view that it does not decide on the requirements of the Croatian Privatisation Fund not to set up a debt-refund fund for pensioners, the Administrative Council has made concrete decisions on granting consent to the Director of the Institute for Sale of Shares in the Zagreb Stock Exchange and Public Competition and the call for tenders for sale of shares in commercial companies to convert the Institute's claim into a equity stake. Investment operations and financial operations of the Institute in 2004, as highlighted in the report, took place in accordance with the financial plan and covered all business events related to the pension scheme planned within the corresponding division of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Institute as an extra-financial fund. During 2004, about 585 000 of them were resolved for pension insurance rights and children's allowance in the first and second degree, with 85% of them resolved and about 15% unresolved. The increase in outstanding requirements with regard to 2003 is due to the way in which the results are reported statistically. In most pending applications, the procedure was conducted and temporary decisions were adopted on the advance of the pension. Provisional solutions have also been made to insurance undertakings which have completed part of the internship in the territory of the former Republic of the SFRY States with which the Social Insurance Convention has not yet been concluded. One of the most important segments of co-operation with the insurance company is timely and accurate information. For this reason, a system of public and media information covering several segments is also designed in the office. An open phone was set up with about 6 thousand, 6 and a half thousand queries, and a call centre of about 8 thousand queries was opened, thematically very diverse. And there is also a voice machine that can provide the necessary information regarding the current problem. The visit to the Institute's website also marked an increase of 73,000 in 2003 to 163,000 this year, and it continues to grow steadily. In view of the implementation of the 2004 Institute programme, the report notes that most of the planned jobs were carried out by established deadlines and planned dynamics, noting that, due to the change in the manner of statistical monitoring, the results of the work, the results of the pension insurance rights resolution and child allowance are somewhat weaker than in 2003. However, the fact is that these are the results of the same or approximately the same number of staff from the Institute, and that the size of jobs in 2004 is much higher than in 2003 and that good co-operation with the associated institutions of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the REGOS which has been characterised as intensive and successful. And we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community are also assessing the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2004, and we propose that this report be accepted by this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47724	Thank you very much. Now they'd interrupt the session by 6:00. Voting on completed points, including new points in the agenda, and don't forget the keys. But before that, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47725	So I have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is tied up when the Fund Act was passed, was passed on exactly July 14th of this year, but unfortunately the calculation of pensioners has not yet been made. The second correction of the incorrect allegations concerning the period of difficult condition of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is the biggest reason for the robbery in conversion and privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47726	Thank you very much. Please the keys and secondly, this item of the agenda is delayed for next week. The first is Mr. Gajica, the second is Vidovic. ... Probably. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all as I welcome the representatives of the government. We continue with the session and the agenda item on the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that we interrupted on Friday. The first one's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47728	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, if you'll allow me on behalf of the HSP Club, I have one request. There is no President of the Parliament, and first of all, it applies to him, and now you are the chairman. In fact, the HSP Club is urging the President of the Parliament to take appropriate measures to comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, Article 55 concerns the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Namely, the HSP Club submitted four initiatives in early September two, two later on invoking the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The first initiative was related in early September to the debate on the state of security threat, general security in Croatia. The second was a review of the defence strategy and national security. The third was while you were too, you were having a session about the urgent debate on the report that appeared in the press about an affair listening to a larger set of people among whom were both cardinals and athletes and respected fellow Letica. And the fourth thing we've submitted is that it's very dangerous, and that's to argue about the reconstruction of the armed forces, because what we're doing isn't a reconstruction, and 6000 Croatian defenders will be fired by the end of this year. And they have asked us to make this debate. It's a new social problem, and to make matters even worse, it's about volunteers from the Homeland War, so I'd like to ask that you and President Shakespeare, in accordance with the powers to force the president of the Committee to abide by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47729	Thank you very much. I'll pass it on to the President of the Parliament and the President of the Committee. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47730	Mr. Vice President, I think it would be appropriate for someone to brief us in front of the Parliament on the health condition of our colleague, Mr. Vice-President Vice-Vukov, given that we are somehow convicted of information from the media, but I think we need to take care of our health and be informed about our colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47731	Thank you very much. We'll get the information and we'll report it. So we move to the item on the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, i.e. It's Friday's sequel. The first is on behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Gajica. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then, on behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47732	... knowledge. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I also think of the HSP Club and suggests that both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament receive this report for knowledge, because the very fact that at this point, the ratio of the number of insurance workers versus the pensioners and the unemployed 1:1 points to the seriousness of the situation and speaks of the state of the pension insurance system is primarily here thought of this first pillar. It says that this whole system is on glass feet, the whole system is on glass feet. The fact itself also makes it clear to itself that the average pension for 2004 was 41.80% compared to the average salary and that it decreased by 2005. So somewhere around 40% again, he's talking clearly about the situation if a man with 40 years of retirement is going into retirement today, so he's calculating 1,500 kuna. It says enough what the situation is, and then with a protective allowance if it comes true, it gets an amount of 1800 kn what the average pension is. All these are the consequences of the conversion and privatisation of pensioners, the harm of workers, the harm of Croatian defenders and Croatian citizens. We know for ourselves the situation before the war the ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners was 1:3,3 even in one period. We have now come to ratio 1:1,37 and therefore there is no handling of the proper situation in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute system unless we go to the part where what has been stolen, and this is related to the conversion and privatisation of those who have guaranteed it and are illegally available today. So they came illegally to take it away from them. This is one way to fill all these gaps within the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, because the fact that the budget is the one we have seen is the amount of the amounts allocated annually from the pension system budget, means to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute enough to talk about it. Let's just say he's undermining a tourist season that would be the situation. Or let's just say the second version is not the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute under the auspices of the state, but that it's a stand-alone fund like these second or third pillars. There could be bankruptcy. The state doesn't stand behind it and that's all about everything that's more than serious, not to say dramatic, and that it's about a system that's totally on glass feet. So, given all these facts, the Croatian Party's club cannot vote for this report, it only takes it to the knowledge, and is also looking for appropriate procedures and measures towards the government. The government must take measures on how and how to address this. The fact that the pensioner's debt or compensation is being paid enough is promised by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the government promised that this year's debt calculation would be this month, then that month. In the end, she was no longer the last one to be in November this year. Unfortunately, it's only now that we see that it will be in December. So, again, it's a delusion. So the deception is already contained in the very fact that the government and the relevant have not fulfilled their promise that all pensioners, so they should have gotten it on their home address last year to calculate how much damage they will receive. Now, alone this fact that it goes in two ways, so one is at eight years if it wants to pay back the entire debt, and the other is half, again it says that the pensioners have come back to the position that in a certain way and played and the Constitutional Court's verdict, and most unfortunately will have to resort to that part that they'll go to that part of the debt and they'll get sooner. But also, given the state of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and everything else, there are no guarantees because there is no telling what went into the fund, which shares will be and will all be able to do so. Therefore, there is too much dubiosis and there has been too much time wasted during this period and if measures are not taken that will be systematic, if we do not start to fill the contributions, if they do not start to increase the number of employees the situation will be worse and worse and it could even happen that the ratio of the number of pensioners and employees is higher than the ratio of insurance or employees in Croatia. Therefore, this indicates a difficult situation, and mostly not to say these facts with which number of cases the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is covered. A large number of judgments by the Administrative Court have been carried out inadequately again. The very fact, let's say we are addressed by a large number of Croatian defenders. To this day, it has not begun with this part of translation, namely, we know that that defensive allowance under the new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family has been retired, and to this day it is not done but a separate pension payment situation is still being made, and then they are not credit-related to the repayment of credit. I also expect the pensioners' club here to stand hard and resolutely on the side of the pensioners and to see the position and in which they could be further brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47733	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47734	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr Kovacevic provided incorrect information that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is not meeting. The board had 54 sessions so far, and all the materials he had to discuss had been discussed, so that the information was incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47735	It's not about this item on the agenda, so that's what we should have done, but I think we'll also give the President of the Parliament and the President of the Committee the opportunity to point out to your question, but after this item of the agenda is finished. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47736	Mr. Kovacevic made a whole series of incorrect claims, and it would take us a long time to correct everything, but I'm only going to do a few late ones, delaying the pensioner's compensation project. The only thing he said was that he was late, but everything else, and I don't want to amneste the Deputy Prime Minister for losing 40 working days from the summer to here, but I have to realize that everything else is still within the legal deadlines and nothing beyond the legal deadlines has happened. And secondly, on his recommendation to us to defend our interests sharply, I don't think we're going to talk about emotions, but we're going to talk about facts and we're going to evaluate this report with facts because today is on the agenda. Thank you for your concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47737	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS club Mrs. Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47738	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 gives us a presentation of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, gives us a picture of the misery in which the majority of the pensioners are located and gives us an overview of the work and structure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Any discussion on this subject will be held by the pensioners in hopes of finding a solution that will lead to an increase in pensions. Starting with a report of the observed sizes of a million 460 thousand insurance companies compared to a million and 65 thousand pensioners. Which makes up the ratio of 1:1.37, i.e. one pensioner comes to 1.37 employees. Starting with statistics saying that there is no economic boom in Croatia, nor a significant increase in new employees, starting with now silent announcements from European circles that the number of employees will have to be reduced in Croatia, it will be difficult to realise the understandable hope of the pensioners. As early as 1995, 3.68 people, i.e. '85, came to a pensioner. A year. Not so long ago in the '90s. 3 employees per one pensioner, so that today this ratio is 1:1.37. By changing the ratio in number, the pension ratio was also changed compared to the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. In the '90s. The average pension was 75% of the average salary paid, and in 31.12.2004 it was 41.80%. If we keep in mind the average pension in 1999 was 34.51% of the average salary paid, then there is room for satisfaction that there has been a certain increase in pensions. But that increase isn't enough. The average age pension is 2 thousand and 15 kuna, the temporary age of 699, and the disabled one thousand 601 kuna. Taking into account the increase in prices over the last year, and since 1 October of this year and the obligation to pay instructions and recipes, we cannot conclude anything other than that the pensioners lived harder than they lived 3 years ago, and if they lived in a difficult or better way, they lived intolerably. The promise of a debt return will only give birth for a moment to a spark in the eye, but it quickly shuts down because it needs to live today. We will probably all agree today that it was a completely wrong policy to stimulate early retirement. In order to mitigate the explosion of unemployment due to economic downturn, it resorted to the full opening of the retirement door. Beneficent internship is interpreted extensively. Full incompetence for work due to the disability of the boom, an internship is purchased with 655 thousand pensioners in the '90s. We come to a million 17,000 pensioners in '99. A year. Following such a policy, we were given the fact that the average income of the elderly is 31 years, and the user of the disability pension is 23 years. So, according to the internship, we have young pensioners, especially disabled pensioners, who have become very young so sick that they are completely incompetent to work. Unlike other European Union countries, we retire our disabled without professional rehabilitation and requalification. However, it is hard to expect that the overqualified and professionally rehabilitated disabled would have the prospect of hiring besides over 300 thousand unemployed at the Employment Office. Nevertheless, we consider the retirement population to be harmful, and for the disabled to work unfairly, their easy exclusion from the world of work. Such a pension system has proved unsustainable and has therefore joined a pension system reform that would not show its positive side for 10 years. And what about until then? Furthermore, pension insurance is financed from the current payment of contributions and revenues from the state budget. In 2004, the revenues amounted to €14 billion, 873 million and €11 billion and €51 million in the state budget. Is it possible to increase revenue from contributions? We in Croatia consider the peasant party and claim that it is possible. How? Certainly not by increasing the rates for their payment. The 20% rate is too high in terms of salary height. It is noted that in the 1970s it was 14 to 15%, and pensions were 65% of the average salary. If there is no significant increase in new employees, and given the government's senselessness and inertness, there will be little or no, revenue from contributions can be increased by introducing financial discipline and control both the basics of payment and the suppression of the black labour market. It is generally known that in Croatia the work on black blooms. Workers shall not report or pay contributions. Those declared as the basis for the calculation of the contribution shall report the minimum bases. The employer steals the state, but he steals both employees and now and in the future. We're wondering what the inspectors are doing. To effectively exercise payment control, we are confident that income from contributions will be increased. We will rarely hear from employees that his salary consists of two parts, one which he receives on the basis of the payment list on which contributions are paid and the other which he receives in cash on his hands, of course no contributions are paid. Since this is almost a general phenomenon, is it not possible for the state system to establish effective control of which pensioners and workers and the state budget would benefit? And now something about doing business for the office itself. The rapporteur says: Professional administrative, legal, economic and other tasks for the sake of a smooth, rational and successful exercise of the activities of the Institute and the availability of pension rights to all insured persons are carried out by the professional service of the Institute. It is organised on a territorial basis in the central service, 20 district services and 86 outposts. If we have 20 counties in Croatia and the City of Zagreb with the status of the county, then it is obvious that one county does not have a regional service. The county that has no district service is Virovitica-Podravska County. Therefore, we ask the rapporteur why the area service in Virovitica was not put into service before it was purchased and arranged for that service. Obviously, it's a matter of negligence and superficiality. Furthermore, the Office is governed by the Administrative Council. It discussed the problem of the portfolio of the institute in 2004. This is about shares and shares in companies owned by the institution. The rapporteur says that the administrative board of decision-making related to the Croatian Privatisation Fund's proposals discussed with continued warnings that sales decisions should not be made until an agreement between the government and pensioners on how to repay the debt is realised. Despite such warnings, despite the fact that the debt is not recovered, shares and business shares owned by the Institute and are further sold. Describing the incomes of the Institute, the report says that income from rent, business space and the Housing Fund has been achieved, and knowing the assets of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is certainly not small. Describing expenditures say that 50 million 673 thousand kunas have been spent on services, however, which are services, we do not know. This is usually the case with representation services in court proceedings. So 50 million kunas most likely for representation in court proceedings. But the Institute has its own legal service and would love to know what it is doing, especially how many disputes it has won and how much it has lost. 50 million is not small, and that requires an explanation. So we were expecting an analysis, but of course she's not here. We never received the long sought-after information on how much funds were recovered after a pension payment error was found for pensioners who died a long time ago. We know that such funds are also paid to their savings books and are sent home. We never received a report even though we were looking for it back in 2001. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will take note of the report, pointing to the need for better control of the payment of contributions and the management of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47739	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47740	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, gentlemen from the Bureau, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Party of Retired Party representative club assesses this report from the aspect of the reporting standard, which is common in the Croatian Assembly, technically precise, professional, comprehensive and as such acceptable for us and representatives of the Croatian Party of pensioners will vote for this report. This does not mean that some of the contents of the report will not be problematicd, i.e. that the next report for 2005 should be drawn up by the same form. In Croatia, the party to the pensioners think that this report is in certain content of a very shallow procedure and does not go into the essence of the problem, i.e. it does not analyse the causes but deals with the consequences that are not suitable for social status and the role that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute should have in Croatian society. In this context, we think that in Croatia, a party to pensioners should play the role of designers and promoters of future pension systems and coordinators of the overall effects of the three-stage pension system for two important reasons. The first reason is an exceptional concentration of knowledge and experience and a developed organization network of offices that can very easily fit into the micro-level development processes. Another reason, in the range between two extremes, is the American in which each individual builds his pension system and must assume responsibility for his age from Scandinavian pension systems partly fiscalised with a high level of pension rights should be respected by European civilizational achievements and social standards to define the future role of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. This should be done in the light of the fact that the Generational solidarity system will long be irreplaceable, i.e. the basic pension system and that the European Union cannot survive in the long term as a dominant monetary, i.e. the Union's capital, but in a relatively short time it must become a social union, or social rights union. Therefore, we in Croatia think that in the opening part of the basic data on the Institute should, apart from the fact that the Institute is a public institution, highlight the fact that the legal person is an entity with rights, obligations and responsibilities. It should also be pointed out that the Institute has its original income from compulsory contributions, from the state budget and assets and that the Institute has its own assets. These facts are misrepresented in public. The fact that compulsory contributions are collected as revenues from the State Treasury does not reduce the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the Institute and do not affect the character of the income of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute but only positively affect the liquidity of the State Treasury and the reduction of operating costs of the Institute. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Croatian Privatisation Fund agreement on the transfer of management rights over the portfolio of the Institute does not amnesty for possible care of its ownership. Because in the end, the Bureau is a public insurance company. Because the original incomes of the Institute, regardless of the contributions are mandatory, are the private rights of each insurance company. The State shall fulfil its obligations to the categories of pensioners under special laws and transitional costs according to the institution. On the management of the office based on these facts, I will problem you later in my personal discussion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the status of the pension insurance system based on generation solidarity in Chapter 1.8 of the share of pensions in salary is lacking in a completely new table which would clearly present the problem of new pensioners, as the levels of their pensions as a result of the increase in the accounting period for pensions differ significantly from the data in Table 6. The show would have to be by type of retirement and by year of retirement from the beginning of 1999 and beyond. At the end of this chapter, average pensions are compared to the average salary in Croatia and the European countries. According to my knowledge, the analysis of the pension systems applied by Western Europe, and it could be called "compared comparable" for a short time, we do not apply. While their analysts are based on the comparison of wages and pensions by professions, titles and professions, and so are collective agreements and contribution structures, our analyst has a charm syndrome with the final range of the meat and cabbage analysis, and so is the final sentence in which the dominant role is given to full training with the retirement of 65 years and the participation of the average pension in the average salary in us with 64.45% subject to review. In addition, in Chapter 1.9, the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product is considered insufficient to conclude that the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product decreased and amounted to 12.70. This may be met by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which are constantly telling us that the share of pension rights in the gross social product is too high, but not us. It can't please us. In fact, this is where we come into a very complicated situation, and that is why it is worth emphasising and clarifying. Despite the upgrade of the 100 kuna supplement and 6% pension base and the application of a more favourable formula for harmonising pensions with nominal salary growth applied in the second half of last year on a so-called increased basis for about 700 thousand pensioners, the share of pensions in the gross social product, i.e. pension expenditure in the gross social product, is slightly falling. Since real GDP growth compared to 2003 has also seen a 0.5% decline in pension rights, it would be expected that increased pension rights would result in an increase in the share of expenditure on gross social product pensions. But that's not the case and the real reason is that 40,000 513 new pensioners who enter the system into increased scope as disability pensions and early retirement. And the pension system is thus not the level of pension rights so that regardless of the more favourable formula of harmonising the participation of pension rights in the gross social product during 2004 has slightly decreased. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Analysis of the situation, we believe that this is the lowest level of analysis of the cause which one serious public institution can, and this must be done by the institution. Analyze the situation in the pension system based on generation solidarity and count the consequences even without their quantification, and not enter deeper into the analysis of the cause with a sign of responsibility for what happened, for us in Croatia, foreign pensioners is unacceptable. We ask that we speak openly about these problems and to explicitly speak to the Croatian public, and in particular to the pensioners how much money was inherited in the pension system in 1990, and how and for what purpose the funds were spent. Furthermore, we want and ask to quantify the outstanding claims of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and their legal predecessors from bankruptcy proceedings. We want to know how unpaid, forgiven or converted into equity shares in the financial consolidation and rehabilitation of pension contributions companies. And which is the final financial contribution to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in the value of shares or, God forbid, to pay dividends. We also want the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to write its assessment of pension reform or deformities in the analysis of the situation. Let it also state how much it is responsible for creating new poverty in Croatia. In a future report for 2005, we want to see the qualification of pension reform applying the rule in this transitional period, the longer you do it, the less your pension. That it is, therefore, a pension reform because of the principle mentioned itself, a generator of new pensioners, i.e. increasing the number of pensioners, and does not achieve a set of guidelines to stimulate a longer working life for Croatian workers. So there's a full pension reform with repairs of the whole goal she set for herself. Also in the future analysis of the situation, we want to see the elaborate impact of high severances offered and paid by some state and private companies, as well as state institutions to increase the number of early retirements, and the future social status of these pensioners and the burdens of the state and pension systems on this issue. In Croatia we tend to say let for once in our lives a man get the money and solve some of his existential problems. However, every serious citizen in Croatia knows that it is a short-lived policy and that it has nothing to do with the need for social security, which is long-term, according to its circulation. It is certain that the future beneficiary of the pension is damaged in the long term because, for an average of 16 to 18 years, the use of a pension under the conditions of loss of psychophysical potential cannot compensate for one high severance, however high it may be. In this process, the social plan is lost and the state is lost because it does not earn taxes, contributions, neither at present nor in the future, and it receives constantly new and new social burdens. I'm sure the winners are owners and managers because they reduce costs, dehumanise production and services, so there's no problem with social dialogue, increase profits that can be exported from the country. So, it's not in the general good, and managers make high wages. These are salaries with limited contributions to the system of generation solidarity and high privileges. And as a citizen with the highest incomes, imagine, and the right to repay more funds in the system of generational solidarity. All the honors of both the past and this government that designed it, and this one that does it can really be called social sensitivity for the rich in 2004, 800 people from that title divided 16 million kunas, while HZMO remained shorter by 30 million kuna. In any case, we in Croatia think that this report of the place under the sun should be given a new chapter, which would be called a review of possible measures and solutions on the labour market that would increase the incomes of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office from the title of pension contributions. We believe that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute with its huge human potential plays an active factor in the processes that regulate the labour market in exchange for the current situation, which is perceived in public as the technical service of the Treasury. Since the Croatian Pension Insurance Office has a review of the payment of contributions by one precise analysis, it can determine whether economic operators are paying contributions in accordance with professional preparation and complexity of jobs or are all employed on the lowest basis for payment of compulsory contributions. Furthermore, we think that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is invited to first assess even some collective agreements of activity in terms of wage ratios and salary contributions in relation to other material rights, field work, journals, travel expenses, severances, Christmases, as the system of generation solidarity is based on contributions from insurance pay and any increase in non-payable material rights means the absence of income from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute from which the current pensions are allotted. So, the circle is closed and from this basis, we expect, in the least future, the proactive role of HZMO, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and we do not want the public to perceive the rule that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is working on the principle of the horse link where your boss tells you to. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, according to us from the Croatian Pensions Party, is much more than that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47741	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47742	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It's hard to correct this speech, it's supposed to make it right, but I'm going to try to do the most important thing. Mr Hrelja is the subject of this report not the establishment of the European Union. However, the subject of this report, you were talking about the establishment of the European Union, you should have talked about how to pay back the pensioner's debt, how to do, you have members of the Supervisory Board within the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, therefore you should have talked about it. Furthermore, when you're talking about the assets of the fund, it's not the property of the fund, it's the property of the state that's given to the fund at its disposal and the management of the pensioners. If you don't know it, it's really sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47743	Thank you very much. This is a correction of opinion, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure has been sought by Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47744	I can't quote a member of the Rules of Procedure right now, but please protect me from insinuation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47745	Thank you very much. Let's not go any further. It's common to say what comes to mind under the correction of an incorrect quote. I'm not gonna deny it to anyone while I'm sitting here, of course, but I'm obliged to warn you, am I? Another correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Pejo Trječević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47746	Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect as Mr Silvano Hrelja said that this report is excellent and above all acceptable for the HSU club, and his entire debate here was in the sense of rejection and the great shortcomings of this report as I personally hold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47747	It's also a correction to the opinion, not only of Mr. Hrelje, but of the retirement parties, but it's common for us to tolerate it, so we move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47748	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the Pension Insurance Office. Well, unlike those who dispute this report, I say it's a rare quality report, unexpectedly good and comprehensive. I must even admit that the representatives of something like this are not taught, in one word the report is great, but the situation is disastrous especially for the pensioners and it's true. However, there is a clear gap here, it is true that it is referred to the parliamentary procedure before, for example, Croatia and Slovenia exchanged notes of ratification. ... Well, you were talking about new pensioners, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So before Croatians and Slovenians exchanged notes on ratifications of double taxation contracts, which will take place from next month. start paying pensions without double taxation to Slovenian pensioners. Up until now, some 14 thousand Croatian citizens have been suspended, as from 1.1.2005, Ljubljana has charged those 16 to 33% of the taxes on their pensions, but the biggest failure of this report, better said pension reform, is that the government, i.e. The parliamentary majority abolished the so-called so-called. The Swiss formula, which will save a billion and 600 million kuna in 2006, and by 2014 as much as 25 billion kuna. And what's going on? The pensioners will be returned to 13.8 billion kuna, real 6.9 because they will all take 50% in 2 years, and the state will save nearly 20 billion kuna in 10 years and that will say that the pensioners will repay their debt themselves and this should be the famous agreement that pensioners on the other hand should clap. Of course that's not what you're talking about. Right, someone will say this report for 2004 is not for 2005, but this is the essence of the government's two-year policy now. The truth is that 100 kunas plus 6% were returned, but if we consider that the Pension Fund will be a mechanism for the total sale of the Republic of Croatia, because the debt will return from the property of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. By selling public companies, it's hard for someone to applaud the next day. The truth is there's no doubt about it, and my parents are hoping every 27 thousand kuna divided by 2 how much the average pension is for 423 thousand pensioners, and it's clear that they'll take it because it belongs to them. Father worked for 40 years, mother 36, but some things should be called a real name. It's clear that it's easy to dive crocodile tears, but you can say the basic problem when pensions are due, and the key to all pension systems is employment at this point. The peace systems can save only employment, and therefore the biggest stupidity this country could do and which it does, these privatization funds direct for consumption, and I'm afraid that tomorrow we're going to pay for such a policy expensively. Clearly today what is there is, but without a clear concept of preparedness to catch up with the burden of spending this country we will all be very quickly vegetationd together as these new pensioners do. I also claim that Croatia has a chance, but we seem to have chosen a model to give Croatia something to, to borrow, but not to allow others to do something in Croatia without understanding or capital will come to this country or our citizens will follow that capital. So, what's the problem? What Croatia accounts for in 2006, is only 5 thousand 400 more employees than it finished in 2005. This also comes from this year's budget, which will be discussed, from the interview of State Secretary of Finance Ms. Martine Dalic, and I have already begun to create an impression of some economic miracle from the government itself. The truth is, Croatia had a war, it had a refugee drama. Due to the occupation of a third of Croatia with a quarter or a fifth of the country's economic potential, which was all robbed and destroyed today, Croatia stands out 70% of its salary budget, health care, 28 billion kuna pensions, defenders, etc. And then investment remains with 15 billion kuna, with a clear 3.5% deficit next year which is much better than that of 6% in 2003, but the key to the economic moment we see in 2006 that the government is counting on only 5 thousand 400 employees more than in 2005. Everything else is a children's game to it. And while it's so clear that the state will be expensive, business will be expensive, separations will be large and social, pensions, public sector wages no one in this country will be able to be satisfied. And clearly, while there were 90 million 968 thousand insurance companies and 655 thousand pensioners clearly in that figure were many of those who "worked" and actually didn't work but we still had that ratio 1:3. In 2004, there were a million 460 thousand insurance companies versus a million 65 thousand 555 users, and that is the ratio of 1:1,37. And today I'm afraid that's the situation, or worse, it's probably not. But if, out of that number, out of the million 460 thousand insurance companies, we reject the de facto 200 thousand people who work or who are on the state's salary, health care, education, customs, the military, etc., if we reject those who work in insolvency companies, then we come to an ratio of 1:1. The orderly fall of employees is recorded from 91st when there were a million 839ths to 96ths when there were a million 478ths. And it's quite logical, war, occupation, refugee drama, etc. But what's the problem? Today in 2005, there are no more employees in this country than there were in 96, which is a problem, with the number of insurance companies still increasing by 20,000 per year from 2000 to 2004 and then I am surprised that in 2006, only 5 thousand 400 more workers are planned than in 2005. Everything else if we have that problem in mind are games, transferring responsibilities from one to another, politics, but I also want to say that after Europe of this consensus etc. the consensus that has been reached in this House should be achieved only when pension policy is in place and employment. It is true that the duration of the pension in 2004 extends by one to two years compared to 90 years, as in the age group 50 to 69 years of 544 thousand Croatian pensioners, over half a million people aged 50 to 69 years. The share of pensions in the gross social product is 12.7% high but it is again lower than in Austria, Italy or, say, Germany. The particular problem is the new pensioners they've all been talking about. In the first half of 2005, 23,000 workers with an average pension of about 244 kuna were retired, and this is clearly the result of the humiliating 99th Retirement Insurance Act. From 99 to today, it means that in 2005, 280 thousand workers with an average pension of about 466 kuna or a circus of 500 kuna are retired, meaning those who are retired until 99 and who on average will receive the right to return from 27 thousand kuna to two if they decide to receive that return within two years, with one who receives between 2 and 2.5 thousand kunas, one who receives between 2 thousand and 3 thousand kunas, one who receives a thousand to 2 thousand kunas, one who receives a thousand to 2 thousand kunas, one who receives a thousand to 3 thousand kunas, one who receives 3 thousand to 3 thousand 500 kunas has the right to return 44,000 kuna, and clearly that is to be shared with two if they choose to receive that amount in two years. In part of the proportions of old new pensioners there should be sure to amend the pension legislation as well as the Law on Croatian defenders. This IDS initiative points to a parliamentary procedure because they, and there is the same illogicality that those who are retired after 1.1.2005 have the right to a minimum pension of 45% and those who are retired before 1.1.2005 do not have that right. Otherwise, the average pension of the Croatian defender is 5 thousand 479 kuna for 36 thousand 559 defenders, for the NOR participant is 2 thousand 83 kuna, the Homeland Army 2 thousand 226 kuna, etc. But the point is certainly employment, and it should certainly be understood, that should be taken into account. Ecology, what I know about real estate, this or that capital, too, but without employment. We're just going to fail. In Croatia, there will be a wall of problems, I argue, and it is an unemployed, pension, social existence that will find all the authorities in the position of the government, and therefore there should be one more minimum agreement when pensions and employment on Wednesdays after the problem has been solved both The Hague and Gotovina, and the European Union, and this one in Bosnia after Rajic's testimony, freedom of the media and so on. So, slowly this country becomes a regulated state, has problems with both corruption and poorly paid administration and centralization absolutely, the return of Serbian property, the cost of life, etc., but the fundamental problem at this time is pensions and employment. This ratio is 1:1.37 and essentially 1:1. If we turn down all those who work in insolvency companies and don't pay contributions, that is, if we reject the number of the million 400 and fifty thousand from the two hundred thousand people who are on the budget salary. Everything else means it's also important, vitally important, but these two I'd say sentences are kind of a matter of our survival. So, this is a question of the future and so for the end I'm going to say this is a good report, it's a rare good report because it's extremely comprehensive but it's also a condition when the pension systems are simply catastrophic and here clearly needs to do something to at least by year in these new pensioners do not repeat the proportions on which we have had the opportunity to follow over these last few years that a man who works, in fact the more he does it has a smaller and smaller pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47749	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Was it a correction? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47750	I'm correcting the statement that the pensioners will repay their debt to themselves even if it's not the subject of this report, but it's spoken for by a pay phone. This speaks of the elementary ignorance of the pension system and the principles of the theory of meetings in mathematics because pears and apples cannot be mixed together. Namely, the debt has nothing to do with the budget and with current contributions already intends to be alimony from the property, property of the state of Croatia. And secondly, if he had already wanted Mr. Cain to handle it already in 2001 as well as the question of the Swiss formula he also holds, so with the element by which he will be able to pay back his debt, himself a debt which is completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47751	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47752	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. In the discussion of the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 it is necessary to address several topics discussed in the report. First of all, the pension reform was carried out under the sustainability of the pension system, leading to a very serious violation of the principles, the system of generation solidarity. In determining pensions, less and less the contribution of pensioners through their working life, there is unwarranted, unequal and individual pensions for the same period of employment and the same financial contribution. Pensions are seriously lagging behind salaries and low pensions seriously endanger the existence of most of Croatia's citizens. The goals of the reform are increasingly gaining fiscal forms of pension spending cuts, therefore, the issue of social security, is being removed from the state and transferred to individual funding itself. The question now arises as to how all of this, followed by the following, fits in Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says that Croatia is a social state, remains to think about one whole population and perhaps another. Let's get some of the arguments. The proportion of pensions in the average salary as we have heard and decreased from 75% in 1990 to 41.8% in December 2004. At the same time in 15 European countries, the participation of pensions in average salary ranges from 88.3% in Austria to the lowest 70% in our neighbouring Slovenia. Except for the exception of Poland where this ratio is 57.5%, but it is still 15.7% more points than in Croatia. There's something weird going on. However, there is one more point to be noted and this is that we have little compatibility with our neighbours and Croatia and Slovenia before the transition had autonomous pension systems, however, the question is what has happened to us badly in this process of harmonising the pension system or what has happened well in Slovenia. If we continue this way by reducing participation and reducing pensions, the question is whether our future pensioners will be competitive when we enter the European Union to stay with the rest of Europe at all. Further to say that in 2004, 40,000 and 513 people went into retirement and the average pension of those who left that year was 1347 kuna and 56 limes. That is, only 32% of the average Croatian salary. Keep going. In the first 5 months of 2005, 23 thousand people with an average pension of 1244 kuna retired. Which makes up only 28% of the average salary in that period. It is obvious that pension reform takes its toll and that something in all of this is wrong, and it will be very devastating if this continues. It is no secret that the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are asking Croatia to further reduce pension expenditure which, of course, has resulted in changes to the formula, however, it will be worth a very detailed analysis of the situation and all relevant factors must be included, as well as how to address these existential issues. The participation of pension expenditure in GDP of 12.7% is considered too high and whether it should be reduced slightly to get closer to what is in the European Union. I am not sure that all pension incomes are covered in the European Union when GDP is calculated and I am not sure that everything that does not belong there has been excluded from us. I mean, there are different ways of showing up in Europe and with us. Well, it's worth a little bit of analysis. Relation of the number of pensioners and insurance companies. We've heard already he's 1:1.37 and surely he's unfavourable. However, it is worth asking why. Here, these days we've heard that we have 400,000 employees on black, in the gray economy. And now let's take those 400,000 that work in the gray economy to work in the regular economy, then that relationship would be 1:1.75 and their pay contributions would greatly improve the situation. Further and in order to improve the situation, the question of not paying the salaries and, of course, not paying the contributions, paying the salaries without paying the contributions on the lowest basis is raised. The payment of part of the salary in cash, the issue of payment and bankruptcy, the release from paid contributions. I really think there's a lot of these details that can simply change and we'll have a more favourable situation. They say the pensioner's too. And that's the biggest reason why the situation is bad so let's let when too many of them bear themselves and the consequences. But the real reasons are actually somewhere else. The economic and social difficulties we had were solved through the pension system. The disappearance of jobs, extra employees in the privatisation process have long-term burdened the pension system with a large number of young pensioners and created long-term high pension expenditures. However, no one today is interested in why people lost their jobs, why did they not get another job, and why did the capital from privatisation not create new jobs? Here we come to the root cause of all the privatisation problems carried out in Croatian way. We recently discussed the subject quite extensively in this home, but it seems to me that this chapter remains incomplete. And speaking of privatisation, we should also mention the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The capital that the Conversion Act has been given to the Institute has never been put into office. The report on the 2004 portfolio of the Institute is the same as for 2003. The remaining portfolios of HZMO are managed by the Privatisation Fund. Answers the question of how the division was made and the sale of shares is gone, how the replacement of shares by system is good for bad, there is no answer. What about the loaned shares? There's no answer. It is only known that the debt to HZMO is the same as it was in 2003, 914 and some million kunas. Time, thank you. [[Intruder: Please conclude.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47753	Replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47754	So, according to the lecture, the presentation of the distinguished colleague who looked back on the difficult situation in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute as a result of the conversion and privatisation done in Croatian way. So I call on my colleague to, in accordance with what he was saying, if he really wants the well-retired to support then our Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which we suggest that what has been illegally acquired be taken away and thus the Fund can be filled in and have money for other projects, employment and everything else. If we haven't done it already, we can at least solve it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47755	At 10:14, the time for the individual hearing was up. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47756	Well, here's the answer to Mr. Perry. In any case, we will support any law that will correct what has not been done in the way that it should have been done. And let me add a little bit. The future privatisation should certainly be such that it will not force extra people into the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47757	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Joseph the Judge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47758	My colleagues have already highlighted enough the problem of the pension system and the position of the pensioners. I want to warn you of something called inside the retirement, within the systematic question. And it concerns that 3 years ago, Croatia had 3 thousand 300 workers involved in the work of administration pension systems. Today, following a pension reform in the introduction of a second pillar of pension insurance on the same task, 5,000 people were employed. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office has not received any new workers. The number of employees of the Croatian Institute remained the same, and in the management of the pension system all the workers of Regos, Hagena, about 300 people of FINA, more than 100 employees of the tax administration, managers, administrators of pension funds as well as shareholders who distribute shares of these funds. This is also a visible paradigm of today's failure to implement the pension reform initiated by the World Bank with the aim of rationalising the system and reducing the costs of its implementation. Regos was supposed to be the central register of parent records in the Republic of Croatia which he never fully revived. Because the data that FINA managed to collect for regos was more of a statistical quality than public documents. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, along with the necessary verifications of sources, still had to keep the home records. The foundation, the basis of which, due to excessive double accounting, cost the state $12 million a year. When, on top of these early blows, the Tax Administration separated its records from the RS forms, Regos ceased to exist as a central register. To streamline the procedures for maintaining the pension system in Croatia, avoiding double bookkeeping and retaining the necessary level of quality of data, the solution we have been considering has been imposed long ago, and has been tried in several countries. It is necessary to attach Regos to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office as we have done with Hagen. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office has done one big job. It would be unfair not to tell people: Here you have succeeded in issuing 40,000 solutions for new pensioners. You've issued 25,000 solutions to the administrative court's decision. So you've informed about the verdict and then calculated 623 thousand individual bills for pensioners' debt by saying that you're doing it in a rather primitive way and that only in 2007 will the modernisation funds be provided to you according to the projection. So in 2006, you'll still be working, working manually. However, the total cost of administration has risen to 3 and a half % of total annual pension payments. If measured in Europe, then it does not exceed 1% in Europe. Therefore, by rationalising only this administrative part of the pension in Croatia could increase by 3 and a half%, which is as much as the budget provides for the next year of regular pension coordination. So here's to the savings done here. I would suggest that, gentlemen from retirement that their project they are working on and which they have professionally worked to present to Europe and that the World Bank model used in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office as a Croatian export product is also offered in global terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47759	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47760	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Director, gentlemen of the Croatian Pension Insurance Service, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would like to issue a few more questions from the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004. The first question is management of the Bureau. The report noted that there was a change in the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2004. The composition is now the following, three representatives of workers, determined by multi-level unions, three employers' representatives, defined by the Croatian Employers' Association, three representatives of retired associations, which is new and 4 representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the resolution ministries. This composition of the Governing Council was logical until 2002, and in this claim I am starting from the assumption that those who contribute also pay pension rights in the Governing Council should decide. In 2002, therefore, during the former government, the Law on Obligatory Insurance Contributions applicable from 1 January 2003 to the National No. 147/02, which defined differently the role of the employer and the character of the pension contribution. The peace contribution is fully paid out of the salary of workers and has the character of personal contribution, while it was previously half of the salary of workers and half of the contribution to the salary of workers. So, on the burden of the employer's labour cost. The employer therefore became an indirect payer for employees, so the technical executioner suspends and pays contributions to the State Treasury, i.e. the system of generational solidarity and the second pillar of pension insurance. This is an important new, significantly smaller role of the employer in this system, which is not accompanied by adequate changes in the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. In my opinion, the correct relationship should be workers of three representatives, retired three representatives, Government of the Republic 4 representatives, employers of one technical support representative. According to my knowledge, the specific pension system in Italy was managed in a different way in two levels. First, the political administration consisting of representatives of the social partners who, in the executive capacity of the director, exchange each two years and the second technical administration with the Director-General who cares about the work and development of the institution and has his mandate. This would suit us with one level of the chairman of the Management Board, another level of director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. In doing so, it should be said that the political function is stronger, which means that the dominant role of social partners is to create development and address the problem of generational solidarity systems. It is not important to mention that there is still controversy in Italy about the second pillar and the three-stage pension system, and for many years they have been directing their employees on savings through rent savings in insurance companies. So, I think that in Croatia we can and must learn more from the experiences of others, and less about being a polygon for the experiments of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank or just learning by our own skin method. The second question I would be questioning is the issue of information to the public. On the one hand, I commend the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for the website, for the free phone, for the periodic reports, for the newsletter of the Institute and publications that are very high. That's definitely good, that's what you should say, that deserves all the praise and encouragement. However, one other part, which is the communication of the institution, so the Croatian Institute of Pension Insurance with the public through the media, is insufficient both by frequency and by quality. In the context of communication, the media either in writing, whether by electronic means the best results were made by Mr Damir Zoric. Mr. Srecko Vukovic began well, and then suddenly silenced, and Mr. Mile Rukavin kept quiet from the beginning. I will say directly what I think, as I say otherwise, once every three months or with some about the media, a shrub, a technical statement that everyone doesn't understand and they don't have to understand, so it will shorten it to two to three rare levels of communication with the public through media such as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I think that at least once a quarter of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute should hold press conferences and give them the opportunity to ask and write about significant pension issues directly. Furthermore, in 2004, and teaching in 2005, there were not enough valid reasons for calling press conferences, there was. Remember the amendments to the law, the process of calculating compensation with all difficulties of data collection and processing, calculations, communication with pensioners etc. That he doesn't get it wrong. The commendations I made at the beginning are very important, but this criticism is aimed at an even better quality work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. So, to his full steps, not shy steps. The impression, the third question that I'm going to be dealing with, is the impression that the system is closed and the concentration of how to reject the request, not how to solve the problem. I'm saying this on the basis of the complaint of a significant number of users who have already been a dozen years, who have been looking for a solution because they've been suspended for pension rights, and especially because of a lack of documentation. Access to the calculation of pension rights only on the basis of the documentation available is not good and a significant number of pensioners is at risk. The court solutions have imposed a second approach and this is not done, in order to change the provisions of various regulations later, and the problem remains unresolved, and nothing seems to be possible for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to come into possession of documentation on the payment of pension contributions as former Yugoslav People's Army and other companies from the former state space, although they are signed with all state agreements on social security. I can go free and take the liberty of saying that every month 10 of these cases have been solved, and I think we need to take small steps to address each problem, not block possible solutions. The last thing I would like to do in this personal discussion is manage the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I have here in front of me the memos of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, so the request for identification, compensation for the separate shares of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for the basic capital expenditure of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction of Emergency. This letter is sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Then, I have the same report on the request of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was sent by Mr Mile Rukavin on 27 September 2004, and that is all. I'm interested in these reports, but I'm even more intrigued by the realization of these reports. It sets out a certain obligation of the government and the ministry towards the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Therefore, I am interested in when and how these obligations will be carried out, and these obligations are not since yesterday, but have occurred over all these 14 years. Until we can resolve this, I cannot accept that this is the right way to address the issue of the request of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and I always believe that it is the institution of my insurance companies, the public institution of insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47761	Thank you very much. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47762	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rukavina. I will look back on this report that you sent us and I will try to point out something that last time and today does not mention the problem of user insurance, or those who have gained their pensions in the countries of the former SFRY, and I will quote you Mr Rukavina: "On 31 December 2004, the pension was received by a total of one million and 65 thousand pensioners, while a million and 460 thousand insurance companies were recorded at the same time, which makes up the ratio of 1:1,37 number of users, the number of pensions and insurance companies.". Here it should be stressed that the same ratio of insurance and pensioners in the last 3 years has been maintained. I don't know if on this day you cut this number by 27, around... pensioners, I repeat, who made their pension in the countries of the former SFRY. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are emigrants in the Republic of Croatia, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have not left their hearths with their own will, they are exiles, refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina, and others who have earned a pension, and today live Croatian citizens, and today live in the border areas of our country, County, Court, etc. So I'm going to mention the chronology of these events, which is the Government abolished by its decision on 13 April 2000, by means of the regulation, the decision that called pensioners received the difference between pension and minimum pension in the Republic of Croatia and was then explained by the establishment of payment and traffic between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have repeatedly repeated ourselves here, often, this issue of immigrants, or exiles from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I repeat from Vojvodina. Then, on 13 April, in order to reintroduce this regulation in April 2002. I will quote it, and this is the law of 22 April 2002, Article 1(2): "Right to an addendum to the pension and use of this supplement, according to this Act can be achieved in the period until 31 December 2004. "years." and if we have spoken to you, the Croatian Government and the Resort Ministry this problem is still unresolved. I have presented the chronology of events in the hope and desire for this problem of the Mirovinski and Croatian government to try as soon as possible because before the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia we are all equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47763	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47764	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. In addition to this report, we have also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which says in one sentence that the Government has no objection to this report. I also have a lot of objections and big remarks and significant remarks on this report, because I probably read this with a little more attention, so I did apply for this debate. But at first, I'm saying that I don't understand whether this is the report by the director of HZMO, the board of directors, the president of the board of directors or services, and I'm going to back that up later and a few quotes from that. If in Croatia the pensioners themselves were asked, today, at which point the 3 questions are immediately asked, I am sure and I know that they would first ask when they will receive those papers from the Pensions Office about whether the state owes them or the state for those old pensions. Then there'd be those 300 thousand pensioners who retired after '99. asked when we would coordinate their pensions and stop their delays for older pensions up to 50%, and these 18 thousand citizens of the pensioning state would probably ask if it was true that Croatia and Slovenia finally exchanged notes on the ratification of the Double Taxation Agreement and whether the December pension, which they receive from Slovenia, would finally be without Slovenian taxes. I hope that's the way it's gonna be because the notes have been exchanged. On page 51, under the name "Portfelja zavoda" I must quote, it says that this report is drawn up in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office on the subject of portfolios, but since the Privatisation Fund did not submit a report on the state of the Office’s portfolio on 31 December 2004. This report was prepared according to the data of the Ministry of Peace which they had made available, as regards ownership, participation, shares, etc. I went to ask when, how, who transferred the portfolio to the management of the Privatisation Fund, and from the director I received a contract from 27.7.2000 in which the Privatisation Fund was quoted as saying: "He took the obligation to deliver twice a year, a half-yearly report to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, and on written request within 30 days.". We now have a report from the Peace Institute in which they have found that those who have received a portfolio management do not give them a report, so it says here. I thought it was that portfolio that cost 15, 16 kuna, so it wasn't worth writing that report, more paper than that. But I came up with a table that says that at the end of 2003 that portfolio was 3 billion 594 kuna, in nominal value, and then in 2004 there was management of those shares plus, minus entry, output, sales, write-offs, gifts, transfers without compensation, and that at the end of last year it was in nominal 3 billion 118 million. I don't know what the market value is, I don't have an estimate, but it nominated 3 billion 118 million. It's the property of the pensioners of this country. When we were in '91. The law on conversion went with 30% stake in the pension fund then we said that by acquiring shares, dividends and selling these shares, we would also raise money for pensions. The Pension Insurance Office today does not manage this portfolio but does so by the Privatisation Fund which does not give the Institute a report on the management of those shares in that portfolio, they did not report. There is a further report, and it says, "Until December 31st, '99. Pensions and the Privatisation Fund were often replaced by shares on the basis of signed contracts, and rarely, shares were transferred in favour of the Privatisation Fund at the nominal value, so when an account is made, it turns out that since 31 December '99. To this day, the Privatisation Fund owes the pensioners 914 million kuna. Almost a billion kuna.", point. The government says there are no objections to this report, the government does not say whether this debt will ever be recovered, paid to pensioners or every year the Peace Institute will report that 914 million dollars of pensioners will never be returned to the pension fund, the institution, the Fund's capital, quite fair. How can we stay silent at that moment when we're opening up problems with pensioners who retired a great famous pension reform in late '98?? On page 39 of this report, as regards the portfolio, a financial report where it was planned that by selling shares, selling shares and the rest of this year, the Institute would be able to make 10 million kunas of revenue. The execution is 65 thousand 269 kuna or 0.65% of planned. 0.65% of the planned funds. Obviously there was too much of an item planned or something else happened, it doesn't say here. Now in 2000, when pensioners transferred to the management of the Privatisation Fund if I had the right list, there were 386 companies on the list. How many today? What's that? Who, meanwhile, bought, sold and what portfolio with December 31st last year, the list, shares, nominals? Maybe it's not because in the first place it's like "Liburnia" now as the most significant portfolio of the pension fund. Maybe it's because some other companies are on the most important list, so we didn't get it in the new portfolio. Now with a share of capital, the portfolio is available to the Croatian Pension Investment Company, which has 13 employees and which last year made a profit of 8 million and 600 kuna. I thought that 8 million and 600 were going into retirement income. I didn't find it there, but that 8 million and 600 as a very good result of what it says here is only 3% how much the Peace Service had to pay for employees last year. 3% of the cost was covered by that. Then there is the capital of the fund d.d. which received a nominal of a billion and 214 million when established and that the market value of that portfolio was 967 million in 2004. When we add these portfolios to the fund's capital, to the pension-investment company and to what the Privatisation Fund manages, there seems to be a lot of money for the first tranche of pensioners' debt in June next year, or maybe the market value is only 10% of it. Why did I trouble you with this report? The Peace Bureau should be managed by a administrative council with 13 members. This report says that in the last session, they had 7, in the last year, 7 sessions with 85 agenda points and said that during the year they gave consent to the director to sell to Luka Split, Željezar Split, Istria Pula, Agrolagun Porec, Sladoran Županje, Belvedere Dubrovnik, Brna Smokvica, P.P. Orahovica, hotel Živogosce, PIK-Vrbovec, IPK warfare, livestock, Antunovac etc. etc., Bizoba spas, exchange of shares, financial injection, etc. They agreed to the director to sell the competition, the competition, the tender for the share sold. I thought it was all done by the board of directors. The Board of Directors elects the Parliament, not the Government and not the Directors. This is where we choose the board of directors. Well, wouldn't it be good if the administrative council we choose to have us report on what they've been doing but a small segment of this report is the number of sessions and the number of agenda points of that board. That's why I'm asking that the administrative council appointed by this House present its report. What were they doing? They might then find out what the governing council's position is over the fact that there were 1,971 complaints in the pension services last year, which they think is why such a large number of disputes, why the Ombudsman in his report says that public institutions or public authorities do not respond to his performances, do not respond to his haste, and in the first place the Mirovinski Institute was put in place. And why isn't there a president of the board of directors here that we put in the Pension Insurance Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47765	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47766	A colleague, Lesar, said that the property belonging to the institution is the property of the pensioners of this state. I claim it is incorrect because it is the property of the insurance and pensioners of this state and it is not true that the relationship of the former ministry, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Your party colleague Mr. Cacic knows all this, as well as that the portfolio was on average selling 2% of the nominals and these are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47767	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47768	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only start with what my colleague Cain said when he said this was an extremely good report and there are few of those we get, so I would like to show the 2003 report, which was the same report on the work of the 2003 Bureau, which even has the same picture and differs only in two pages. It means that the tentary word "copi paste" technique was used where only a crumb of it was changed. Most of my colleague, Lesar, said and pointed out certain problems that were happening with the portfolio, and I would stick to the portfolio and also quote what he read in the 2004 report, the same thing in the 2003 report. Since the Croatian Privatisation Fund did not provide the Institute with a portfolio status report on 31 December 2003. It's the same in this report, it's just changed years. So the Croatian Privatisation Fund that has its obligation to submit a report every 6 months has failed to respect it once, as the 2002 and backwards report says. I'd only stick to two things, and that's on that portfolio how it was managed and how at one point nothing was given for anything or gave anything for nothing or for anything else, and I'd read part of the review report about it, I'd start with 94 when those replacements started. The first replacement was, see miracles in 94 was even done in the most honest way where the Golden War Bol was changed for the Bizobe spas and for the same nominal value. Similarly, it happened in 95, but in this case, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute received something in exchange for which he gave nothing, and then 96 begins a game that goes like this in 97, 98, I would like to remind myself of what the report says. The replacements were carried out without a commission decision, i.e. the Supervisory Board. No stock ownership certificates were obtained before the contract was concluded, so something that wasn't theirs was given, they were taking, they were teaching, I was changing to you clicker, you're giving me two marbles and so on. The contract does not specify an act or regulation on the basis of which the replacement is carried out, who has made a decision on the replacement and how many claims, i.e. obligations under previously made replacements, are replaced by a direct contract without the consent of the Supervisory Board and without previously obtained evidence of the ownership of the securities which is not acted in accordance with the provisions of the rules on the sale and replacement of shares, bonds and rights. The documentation does not show which was the objective of carrying out the replacement. In certain cases the replacements are not carried out in the interest of pension and disability insurance funds. I've got a list of where and how those replacements went. There's a lot of companies on the list, companies. When I look at how it went, let's say, how Janaf went, how he walked from side to side, he stayed with each other a little while. So as the Hotel "International" was walking, as any of these companies were walking where the product was, and walking from one fund to another fund, from one portfolio to another portfolio, always produced that the nominal stock was falling and that in the end, such a company was sold. And let me say something about how that same portfolio was sold. The value, for example, that was sold over a certain period, means that by 97th and this from 2000 to 2003, until the 9th month when the last one was done, was sold at a value of 556 million kuna, a nominal value of 556 million kuna for 109 million kuna. So it's 19%. If you look at this first part that was done by 2000, it is even smaller. Only 17%. And what did that produce? It produced what we watch every year in a report saying that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute was damaged by 914 million 571 thousand 639 kuna. By the age of 99, it means only those replacements. I will also read what Ms. Šima Krasic wrote about these replacements and I will also read the persons who did this and they are very esteemed citizens of this Republic, and they have made the least of the words of this robbery. The debt left nowhere says how the government will repay the Pension Insurance Office. There's no record of that in this report anywhere. No one has written a single word in any way, who, how, did you send the requests, to whom you sent the requests. We know very well why the Fund was founded. It was founded for one simple reason, making money to pay off a pension, I would peopleally say that. So, if you made some money to pay off your pensions. It wasn't done, and the behavior, the management of this portfolio of the institute, is not by any chance in the manner of a good master. And now to read what Ms. Šima Krasic said only about the replacement: "The shares were replaced even though the replacement procedure was not governed by a special act". So that's what we agreed. "Replacements were made without the public gathering of bids, i.e. shares previously not offered for sale by public offerings." So it's free. "Replacements were carried out without decisions by the authorities," and so in turn, I do not count. That's all that's written in the State Audit Report. There are 14 points that are all, in my opinion not all, but most of them were made not in accordance with the law and led to this. At that time, the Privatisation Fund was managed by Mr. Ivan Penic from 11 March 93 to 95, Mr. Milan Kovac from 7 June 95 to 19 December 96, Tomislav Družak from 15 January 97 to 15 October 98, Stipe Hrkac from 15 October 98 to 11 February 2000. And in retirement were Stjepan Brčić from 16 October to 7 March 96, Silvio Micin from 7 March 96 to 17 January 97, Damir Zorić from 17 January 97 to 31 January 99 and Dunja Vidosevic from 1 February 99 to 28 February 2001. They all worked on me together, they agreed because they didn't ask the board anywhere, they didn't ask the board, and they had to. We know very well that it had to be written in laws. Whose interest they were working on, I don't know, but I do know that it produced stock sales for 17% of the nominal and produced this debt that was made according to the portfolio of the office. And you in your report don't say a word about it, there's no list of what's yours. The list was not compared to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. This is some kind of transparent statistic I got, which can be and doesn't have to be true. There are some models, there are some swaps and shares between one and the other, so what's sold, for which it's sold. Everything is unclear, it's all fog, and to prove that the fog is here in your lists there's nothing like "Istre d.d." which is being solved these days. And the tender announced that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office owns 16.9%. There is no such thing here, and "Puljanka" has it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47769	Replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47770	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Kapraljevic only quoted me in part, saying I said the report was great. That's what I really said, but I also added that the situation was catastrophic. Mostly about a million 60 thousand Croatian pensioners. Second, it's also not true that the state was giving something for nothing, anything for something, etc. No, that's wrong. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office has always given something as a rule for nothing. And that's the point. The state was giving, the state was losing. And an individual in this country, if he was elected to power, always won. For this, individuals, of course, also received something at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. But the Bureau and state, insurance and pensioners were usually losing regularly. This model has been available to the state property so far, and I'm afraid something similar will happen to us in the context of the repayment of the debt where the most valuable Croatian companies will be sold out so that this debt can be returned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47771	Replica response, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47772	I thank my colleague Cain for saying it so nicely, and he repeated everything I said. I'm saying that such a same report, he said that rarely when we get such a quality, good report. I'm just showing it in 2003 and 2004. Both are exactly the same. I said, it's that tentacle "kopi-paste technique" in which only some figures change.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47773	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47774	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, this report shows, as well as reports from previous years, those problems that have long been widely known in Croatian society and for whose solutions there is obviously neither enough strength nor enough will. I'll try to count them in some order. First of all, one of the biggest problems identified in this report is the growing difference in the number of pensioners and in the number of insurance companies, i.e. read instead of insurance workers. The ratio of the number of pensioners and insurance companies is 1 versus 1.37, so from year to year in these reports the worse and worse picture. Unfortunately, this problem has become the main trend in the pension system, and it comes down to only the slow-moving regrettable findings in various acts, such as this report, although the government has announced major moves aimed at intergenerational solidarity and demographic policy. These important issues have actually come down to the regular running of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute on the one hand and the propaganda activities of the Deputy Prime Minister and its famous team for demographic policy. In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister has ensured the existence of the entire Directorate for Intergenerational Solidarity within the ministry. According to the information available on the website of the ministry concerned, it is not apparent that this administration, therefore, the Intergenerational Solidarity Administration has any structural units, departments, departments or anything else, as well as that it has done any work, or carried out any activity. In fact, it would be necessary for those administrations to take actions and activities aimed at improving the image of intergenerational solidarity as intended, so this report would look different. Potentially extracting about possible incompetence in the matter of pensions, the Intergenerational Solidarity Administration is actually absurd, and their failure to do business should be reconsidered and see if there was any sense in the existence of such a administration. The other problem besides this growing difference in the number of pensioners and insurance companies that are visible from this report, as I say from previous ones, is a low amount of pensions. The average pension in December 2004 amounted to a thousand 820 kuna, which is 41.8% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in December 2004. It has often been stressed that such a shamefully low amount of pension in relation to wages, but it should be noted that in this country there are low wages in relation to living expenses. It is interesting that whenever we discuss the fundamental rights of citizens such as wages, pensions, etc. We are always discussing minimalist standards where even the blow to the cliff that stops the free fall is a success. The problem of pensions, especially the lowest ones, is the problem of state authorities, one of the most common issues of a large number of citizens, i.e. pensioners is actually very simple, how to survive with a thousand and 500 kuna with a 30-year-old or 40-year-old job experience? In response, citizens are mainly given the devastating general statistics on the minority of our economic impact and on the bad demographic picture already mentioned. Of course, this is not an answer to their question, and it should be made clear and loud that they have fulfilled their obligation and that, accordingly, they belong to the right to a decent life, that is, human dignity. Their human dignity needs to be secured by the government of this country, and she is clearly in no condition to do so. The third problem is a large increase in pensioners in the early 1990s and the report unfortunately does not contain relevant data on actions taken or intending to take on questionable pensions in the early 1990s on a questionable legal basis. The fourth problem is a large number of users of different forms of preferential pensions. Namely, here is particularly interesting information from the report on users of privileged pensions. Among these users of privileged pensions is the highest number of NOB fighters, even 63,000 712. For them, therefore, this society annually allocates a billion and 700 million kunas. Furthermore, former JNA members with 14 thousand and 57, 423 million kunas are additionally set aside for them. So 2 billion and 150 million kuna for preferential pensions for these users. The total annual amount, therefore, of 2 billion and 150 million kuna for these categories clearly and unequivocally says that this category that counts somewhere together is 80 thousand citizens, the most privileged category of citizens, although I must admit that I personally do not understand how it is possible that today 60 years after the end of II. We have 63,000 NOB participants in the World War. Therefore, without prejudice to and without discussion of the justification of whether NOB participants should have or should not have a preferential pension, their number clearly and unequivocally points to the need to revise the acquisition of their rights. The exact opposite of social life in Croatia at all levels is deliberately exaggerated and talked about revising the status and receiving Croatian defenders, although these data that I have just presented tells us where to actually do a status review, not only for financial indicators, but also for the real historical cleansing of this society. The fifth problem is that the pensioner obtained a higher pension by early retirement. This is really about one huge legal absurd, and these are famous cases where the pensioner has gained a higher pension by early retirement, and in this report almost nothing is said. The problem must be solved even assuming that everything else is fine and not. It is, in fact, that it is in no way clear to me personally that a legal system with a basis that opposes logic and common sense is not actually subject to research of paranormal phenomena. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office also continues to carry out child benefits. Of course not because in the design Croatian legal system he should do these jobs, but simply... In fact, there used to be some sense in this regard while the right to a child’s allowance or a child’s allowance was granted only by persons employed and insured on the basis of then a special contribution to child’s allowance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to remind you that this special contribution to child support existed until '97, or '98. years, and after that, it was lifted. Today, when this achievement is related only to the parent’s income price, it has nothing to do with pension insurance, and it is necessary to impose a fundamental question in the sense that pension insurance does the child’s allowance. By my judgment, it's as legal as if it were. So in a legal sense, as if the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance were to issue building permits. If the equality of all children is not already respected, the material position of their parents is seen, and this is the only criterion for child’s allowance, then the fact that current incomes never give the right picture of someone’s material condition or almost never. Real estate, valuable movables, shares in companies, different rights, etc. in many far more significant factors in their property status than current incomes. This report also presents an interesting information on the course of a thousand 300 labour disputes that the workers of the Institute lead with regard to the unpaid fee for food costs from mid-2001 to 2002. Namely, thousands and thousands of labour disputes from 2001 and 2002, whose value exceeds more than 14 billion kunas of this hour, have left the former coalition power, which, in spite of its roots, should have been the guardian of workers' rights in the legacy of future generations. And most interesting, legally speaking, are the indisputable cases that courts without difficulty judge in favour of workers. Therefore, you should put 14 billion kunas in the pension report, and that would look different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47775	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47776	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that the current minister is working on his propaganda activity, but the Law on Croatian defenders is not propaganda but reality, he solves the pension issues of Croatian defenders and the forthcoming agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will address the status issues of members of the Croatian Defence Council or the Home War Victim and their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47777	Correction of an incorrect law, respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47778	Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Rožić's incorrect claim that he defined the cost of 2 billion and 150 million kuna to be allocated to preferential pensions. First, it is not true because he did not include all pensions under special laws and specifically referred to the NOB struggles. Definitely the setting is guilty because the pension is the right based on the payment of contributions and the training of insurance and only in terms above personal pension rights is the actual cost of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47779	Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47780	So unlike Mr. Rozic, who is surprised that in this report, participants of the People's Liberation War were found in this report as well as those who made a pension under favourable conditions. I express the surprise that under point 3 here, members of the Croatian Homeland Army found their place from 41 to 45 when something similar happened in Serbia, we know who this whole country was on its feet with, but this was introduced to that pension standard back in 92 or 93. By the way, exactly the NOR participant according to favourable conditions 63,000 712 with an average pension of 2 thousand 183 workers in certain jobs, internal affairs and justice 16 thousand 633 with 3 thousand 226 kuna, members of the Croatian Homeland Army 41. 45 under favourable conditions there are 28 thousand 584, with a thousand 860 kuna average pensions, then there are former political prisoners, former JNA members of 14 thousand 57, regular members of the HAZU, Executive Council, Federal Executive Council, administratively retired public officials, government members, MPs, Article 38. ZOMO, this is the federal chamber, the miners of the Istrian coal mines Tuvalac of 253. It is extremely useful that they found themselves in this system with an average pension of 2,000 736 Croatian Army plus Croatian defenders. But the surprise expressed by Mr. Rozic for the NOR participants far more I have the right to express the surprise that members of the Croatian Homeland Army are looking for here in 41-45 when we know what role these people played during World War II.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47781	My colleague Rosic's injuries to his rules of procedure first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47782	Mr. President, you said this was a correction to an incorrect assumption. This was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47783	On the line yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47784	Then I'm giving up the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47786	Thank you very much. So even though our colleague Cain enlightened us by listing all categories of people who have a pension to so-called. I repeat once again that the number of categories has nothing to do with their final number and has nothing to do with the total number of funds allocated to their preferential pensions. Therefore, you cannot compare 30 academics with 63,000 NOR fighters and claim that this is also one category of preferential pensions. No categories of preferential pensions are questioned. What is questionable to me and what I have asked is a clear question that Mr. Cain or anyone else explains to me that 60 years, exactly 60 years after the end of World War II, we have 63,000 712 NOR pensions, that's what I'm curious about. That was my question. And these other groups that Mr. Cain listed all together don't even have a third of that number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47787	The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47788	Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the Bureau, colleagues and colleagues! I will comment on four things on this report. First, this relationship between the pensioners and the insurance companies is already mentioned, 1:1.37 speaks of the disability of the pension budget. That's clear now. I'm actually repeating what's already been said and of course the logical consequence of what's been said here today in the last two years is 40,000 pensioners and a thousand and 300 pensions, or 20 grand or something more and then a thousand and 200 kuna pensions. This inevitably leads to a longer working life trend and a smaller monthly pension. And it certainly can't be avoided. Now, we've had a pension reform and we've said it's a success and I believe it because it's not possible to do it without certain victims. I could say sarcastically not only knows how many generations of pensioners will be sacrificed to the first better monthly pension. It's probably the kind of victim that's inevitable. Besides, these accounts that are brought here show that too. It would only be good if that sacrifice was as short as possible. Now, I actually said this introduction because it agrees that it would be good for us to get some suggestions in the materials that the Institute does, and in such reports, we get some suggestions that point to possible measures that will alleviate such consequences. I know it's not the center of spinning when it comes to finding solutions in the office but the office is one service that has been doing it for a long time, which can do it, and I think it can see through both possibilities and measures, and even suggest something like that to warn these consequences. The second thing I want to comment on is I'm going to put it under the heading "Decision in Administrative Procedure". I could add resolution within a reasonable period. I know that the retirement service is a service that first of all solves in administrative procedure, has tradition, has people, and I guess it has a technique that's focused, so I'd say primarily on that. Now that it's me, I'm free to draw the conclusion that it's about people and an administrative apparatus that can do it well and best. I'm going to say something here, something that I'm unhappy with, I know examples where I point to two things. In which the request to resolve the right to retire in the cases I know is a family property, it is settled by a decision of the Administrative Court which abolishes a second-degree solution, after intervention with the Constitutional Court for non-resolvement within a reasonable period of time. Now, time is 3 years and 8 months for people who have nothing to live on. You can say, now I've drawn an individual example. If I know three examples, then I'm afraid there's more to it. There's something else I want to say. The law on administrative procedure, or its spirit, actually says, if we can't solve something within the prescribed time limit, 30, 60 or not, I don't know how many days. Then in my opinion, it would be polite to inform the party. We can't resolve your subject in that time, legal time, until then, and until then, we'll inform you, it'll be done in eight, eight months. I'm afraid that the example, the examples I'm referring to, is actually not just negligence. It's hard for me to say, of course, but I'm afraid it's not just negligence. Because in these same cases applicants have been denied a pension application without the decision saying you do not have the right to retire because of it, and because of that provision that shortens it. You have in solving only the appeal to the General Administrative Procedure Act that allows the law to resolve it. So, it only calls for general jurisdiction, we're obliged to resolve it. And then, of course, everything fell into administrative court. And I'd like those cases to be cleared in the office because the Institute, I repeat, has a tradition and it can work. And it's a shame that it's happening for the institution, of course, it's embarrassing for the state when it happens like that. I suggest that if you want to go to the Bureau informally, you as the most responsible people see a little bit of what these items have gotten into the second and third year, so if I can say so profilively, drive people to solve it as soon as possible. One way or another. Let them settle by conscience, but let them take these things and bring them to an end. The third thing I'd like to comment on is this issue of conqualification. This is, of course, a specific problem for the areas of return and I know that the government has reached one conclusion from 2003 that these cases are resolved, I think by the end of that year. Mr. Hebrang made a memo and so on. I believe that such a conclusion has been made by the Government not to make commercials but based on an assessment that it is possible at that time to resolve it. It's not all settled yet. There's probably a small number of cases left, but it's not all solved. I'm also going to point out the content of solving these requirements for the conquistance. You know, inside, within the largest number of solutions to the parties that require the recognition of the internship within it in the largest number of cases, the destruction of the documentation is subsequently overturned to the one that submitted the request. And you have another illogicality, a confession to man's work in 91, so it's recognised at the end of 92, and it's recognised in 94, in the same place, and it's not recognised in the inter-pauses. I don't see that logic. You know, the Law of Administrative Procedure says when there's no documentation let's hear people. Let's hear the people. I don't think in many cases, it's acceptable. And the fourth thing I'm trying to say is this is a matter of unpaid pensions. You know, now I don't have time to see it burn here, so talk about it all, but you have specific cases like this. In one time, people who received an extension of pension payments were later found to have the right to pay back three years later. They didn't get a solution, they weren't informed, it was turned into a year later. It all happened in a way that at one time it became obsolete and that the Institute had not informed people that they had such rights and rights. Now, of course, it's legitimate in the Bureau to think about savings, but it's legitimate to go through the idea of the Administrative Procedure Act, to go to meet the right party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47789	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47790	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd just like to add that those people who were committing aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47791	Corrected an incorrect quote. Correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47792	...in the Republic of Croatia, this status cannot be recognised before peaceful reintegration. So I'm talking about Vukovar, people who worked in Vukovar to tear down Vukovar and kill they can't have pensions. More means to reward them even though they still have to be rewarded with a peace offering.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47793	Replica's esteemed representative Damir Caina.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47794	I agree with Mr Gajic that the issue of convedation is a serious problem and it must be resolved in this country, it is a civilization issue, it is a test of return, it is a test of the credibility of Croatian politics. It's clear that whoever's been tearing this country down, that's what's to be punished, is not to be rewarded. However, I would also like to refer to these pensions on more favourable terms, 173,000 457 people receive these pensions, of which the number 1/3 is waste on NOR participants and 2/# on all others, Mr. Rozic. Not the other way around. So 1/3 of the NOR participants, all of this is left over to the other 2/3. However, I again express my surprise that in one such, under quotes, there is no report but that favourable status is doing 28 thousand 584, which is the native that got up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47795	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47796	Mr. President, all I've answered is that right now, in the end, I'm going to say that I agree with my colleague Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47797	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47798	Thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't talk about what a terrible situation pensioners in Croatia are in, especially these new ones. Everybody knows that. And they're all in panic fear of retirement. People who are at the end of the working century are actually in despair because they don't know what's going to happen to them tomorrow. After 40 years of relatively normal work and relatively normal wages will retire to 1100, 1200, 1300 kuna. A while ago, a finance minister, I think that was Mr. Skegro, said, "Well, I don't think the pensioners think they're going to live on. They should be able to." We all, of course, jumped on such a cynical statement. But that man was right. This really doesn't make you live. No one can live on this. 1,100 kuna in Croatia, 1200 kunas cannot survive in Croatia. He can't feed, let alone anything else. However, the pensioners believed that they were working their whole lives, that they were going to pay, that that money would turn somewhere, that something with that money would happen, and that the profits of that money they were paying would make them live, and that the next generation would help them in the name of generational solidarity and so on. The question of all the questions is, why is there no money? No one can explain to me that they are not there because the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia has been stopped, because it has been a war, because it has been difficult for us. Because we weren't capable. Because we've been trampled by communists for 50 years. So, I don't know for another reason like that. Added value, value, capital in Croatia are made by these people. On behalf of that capital, the Republic of Croatia took over this capital and decided to manage it through the Peace Fund or the portfolio of the Peace Fund. Now what's been going on. First, the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises took place in the fourth month of 1991. One-third of the shares, those who didn't favour the purchase of natural persons and those without a discount received pension funds. Of which 70% labour fund, 30% agricultural fund. Then it happened again in 1992, the fourth month when the funds signed a contract for the establishment of the shares company Croatian Pension Insurance. The company has a ratio of 77:33, farm workers' insurance. It shall be measured or divided after measurement in the same proportion. Guys, I quote controls the property rights of the funds. Then it happened in 1996 when the Privatisation Act and 1/3 of the shares referred to in the Law belonged to pension funds. It's 60% of whether the farmer's 30% and the Independent Business Fund, the craftsman's 10%. Well, these 10% according to the materials that we got from, of the Fund, these 10% is 1.8 billion kuna. This last portfolio. Now how much does this amount to, you can calculate the rest. After that, it happened in 2002. There's been a change of the Privatization Act. The portfolios of all funds, including pension agencies, businesses and so on, make up the portfolio of the Republic of Croatia. And the Privatisation Fund manages all the shares in the portfolio, and according to the contracts concluded with the owners both with, and with this Fund. That was 19.7.2000. In 27.7.2000, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Croatian Privatisation Fund form an agreement on the management of shares and business shares. According to him, the Privatisation Fund can do nothing important with shares without the consent of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but the Croatian Pension Insurance Office transfers all shares to the Privatisation Fund for rationality and better management. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is required to deliver a management strategy with the portfolio within 30 days. I don't know if that strategy came. I've never seen her in my life. The Croatian Privatisation Fund also gives the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute a half-yearly report compulsory on what happens to the portfolio, and more often on request. So he can do it every month. You can do it right. The contract includes another convenient sentence: "The Croatian Privatisation Fund can do so when it is necessary," no one says, "why is it necessary to "trust the management of the shares of a third party." Did that happen, did it not happen? I don't know. All in all, that's what's been going on. The consequences of this event have been reduced and the portfolio has been nominated not to speak of its real value for which no one knows what it is. The consequence of all this was signed, it was signed that there was no half-year privatisation fund report anywhere. I guess since 2002. I guess he never even made it. None of the owners actually know exactly what happened to the portfolio? Or what happened to nominal value? What happens to the real market value and where is that value that the insurance companies then earned? When it comes to replacing shares, and that replacement is possible. She's, she's legal in 1996. The Privatization Act. He says the Privatisation Fund can trade shares with pension funds, and the conditions and means of replacement are prescribed by the minister. It shall be decided by the Management Board of the Fund. Those swaps were obviously coming. Some of you are listed in this report. Did the ministers agree to the terms and conditions of the swap each time? If they are, the state is behind these replacements, and in the case of some, some negative consequences for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Republic of Croatia is probably at least co-responsible for that. All in all this report we received this year, and the same report we received last year with some numbers changed, but with the same facts is not really a report about what happened with the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, especially not with its portfolio, but what happened in the more or less working community is it? So what do you do, how do you run the business? We have recently made a decision in this House to extend the deadline of the revision by a year. It was not clear to anyone why we were doing this because the deadlines for, for the application of the audit procedure were past, so maybe this is the place where the decision on the extension of the deadline could be applied? Perhaps the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is the place where the revision should come again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47799	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47800	Current pensions are allotted from current contributions, and current pensioners have been contributing to some former pensions. The problem is with workers and pensioners before and now. I do not believe, as you said, that Croatian citizens thought someone was increasing, increasing their money in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, so the Croatian Pension Insurance Office will create a new basis for their larger pensions. Of course, it is also true that future pensioners have the fear of retirement, that they are in a state of stress that violates their psycho-physical state and that pension reform produces new poverty, and everything under the World Bank's password for them to fight poverty. The new pensioners are victims of an experiment that has made the former coalition government considerably worse by introducing additional rigid measures. The government first improved the formula for harmonisation, which lasted 18 months. She then deteriorated, but other deteriorations in the pension system were not and these are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47801	Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47802	Thank you, Mr. President, of course I have no intention of amnesting any government throughout this course since '91. This way. All governments worked, so almost as far as they could break the status of the pensioners and he's just as he is today. That's true, whether anyone admits it or not. On the other hand, of course, the pensioners couldn't think in any way that their money would fertilize because it hadn't happened in 50, 60 years. It was living on the principle of solidarity, but by privatizing, by entering a new system we practically promised them, we told them, here people are going for a new one, now we're going to start funds, pillars, capital funds, investment funds, so something's going to be for you. It was nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47803	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual club debate. Dear Representative Miroslav Rožic, Club of HSP. He's gone. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47804	Mr. President, Mr. Director, gentlemen of the Pension Insurance Office, colleagues and colleagues. In this final debate on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, I will say something that I believe should have this Report and should have a report for 2005. Therefore, we do not believe that this report should hide that there is an open political dialogue between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Party of Retired as a political option including an interesting dialogue, because the Croatian party of pensioners also acts as an exponent of pensioners' associations. Such a report, i.e. such a chapter should have its place in this report, as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is directly or indirectly involved in these processes by its evolution. I repeat, open issues are the issues of new pensioners who have been elaborated and the views of pensioners' associations and Croatian pensioners' parties have been delivered to the government since the second month, so since February 2005 we have been waiting for answers. But not just new pensioners. There are pensioners who, Croatian citizens receiving pensions from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. There are various pension issues of the type of minimum pension, maximum pension disability allowance, early retirement. Therefore, one material that lists all the pension system deformities and would be worth it if it were an integral part of this report. Furthermore, we hope that the 2005 Report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will contain, with the establishment of these open pension issues and solutions, i.e. concrete decisions, concrete measures and concrete reports on the management of the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Because as I've said before in correcting an incorrect quote, it's not just a pensioner's portfolio. It's a portfolio and future pensioners. It is a portfolio of insurance and who have the right and obligation to care more about it than they have ever cared about. Maybe this exhibit of mine seems very critical to someone. However, I have already said in advance that the Croatian party of pensioners will vote in favour of the proposed report, and we wish that the long-term Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in Croatian society will receive the status of the insurance institution in the full sense of that word with the highest degree of autonomy, which is not the case now. We want the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to play a proactive role, use its human and technical potential in further developing an irreplaceable system of generation solidarity for future social security of Croatian citizens. And finally, I would like Mr. Director to reply in his closing statement to me when the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will hand over the database of pensioners who have entered the compensation account to the pension fund management company HPB Invest, so that he begins to transmit the notice to future members of the Pension Fund so that the compensation process can be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47805	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47806	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Pension Insurance Office, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Clearly, this is now an opportunity to polymerize with some corrections after my speech on behalf of the club. I continue to argue that the biggest failure of this report, better said the entire pension reform, is that the government, as well as the parliamentary majority, abolished the so-called Swiss formula, which in 2006, will save 1.6 billion kuna and by 2012, as much as 25 billion kuna. And what's going on. I said already, we're paying the pensioners 13.8 billion kuna, and it's actually going to be around 6.9 billion kuna because they're all going to take the 50% in two years clearly, and the state is going to save almost 20 billion kuna in 10 years. And for me, it's the fact that pensioners pay their own debt. Debt's coming back. Debt doesn't come back, I'm sorry from the budget. Clearly, it returns from this national property created by these pensioners. So it's not the neck of the people. It's the neck. Whose property is coming back? The state property whose pensioners seem to be nobody's. However, the key to all pension systems must be employment. The peace systems can save only employment, and therefore I argue that the tragedy when this country simply sold out its national wealth, these funds invested in consumption instead of directing it to some new systems that would generate some new income. And that madness we gentlemen will pay dearly. Clearly today, however, without a clear concept and a willingness to catch up with the expenditure, the country will unfortunately only vegetate in the future. And we see it best from this annual budget, it's rising rapidly, but actually for development it remains very little or almost nothing. And while the '90s were almost 2 million insurance companies, and 655 000 pensioners or 1:3.7 2004 ratio is 1.37, but if we refuse from that number all those who work in insolvency companies, or those who are on the state salary, we come to an ratio of 1:1. But the biggest tragedy is that the number of de facto jobs in this country has not increased since 1996 by one. A tragedy that will be complete is seen from this year's budget where it intends to increase the number of employees by only 5400 compared to this 2005. .../No overlap./... I also claim that we simply have two things to deal with after Europe, The Hague, etc. It's self-employment and it's a retirement policy. Especially the problem that everyone pointed out were the new pensioners. In the first half of 2005, 23,000 workers with an average pension of 14,000 kuna were retired, resulting from the humiliating Merit Law of '99. A year. Since '99. To date, there are 280 thousand workers with an average pension of about 500 kuna less than the old pensioners whom we all want to believe since the middle of next year can count on a return of some of the funds. So, you have to take care of everything in this country, but once again I'm going to say, what's primarily that should be the question of how to create new jobs and how to solve that pension, not the problem, but simply that pension commitment to those who before us were creating goods that are now being spent but at least in their favor. Croatia will certainly face the wall of problems, unemployed, pensions, existences will find all the authorities no matter what they will be and therefore a minimum consensus should be reached on this issue because the pension problem will not solve either this or the next government. This problem will simply be permanent and we should at least get serious about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47807	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47808	Mr. President, it's an incorrect allegation that has been repeated in this House by Mr. Cain that pensioners are paying themselves back from the fact that in 2000 he was just praising the Swiss formula that he had, which was an element of the sustainability of the pension system, so I don't understand this transformation. Secondly, it is an incorrect claim that for the functioning of the pension system, new employment is the most important thing, but not all problems are solved. One of the essential factors of the stability of the pension system is our mood to fairly deploy social burdens to all the entities in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47809	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalic on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47810	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we are during today's morning, continuing to discuss Thursday's debate, we were actually discussing a report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. For me and for the Croatian Peasant Party club, this report is particularly important, not because we want to establish and accept what is in the report, but based on the information that this report contains that we try to find solutions to the better status of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. We have all come to realize together here that the pension insurance system is bad, that it is not good, that our pensioners have low pensions and we in Croatia can't accept that finding and accept the fact that by changing it, by changing the formula and harmonizing the pension, in fact these pensions are falling. We're looking for a solution, trying to find a solution. Even though some colleagues here disagree, we are looking at the only way out of the existing situation of pensioners, both increasing the number of employees, so an economic boom that is not there and which is not in sight, but also partially improving the status of pensioners and their increase in pensions stems from financial discipline. With us, financial discipline is ruling. I haven't heard anywhere yet that someone has challenged the fact that there are workers who have double salaries, one part to which contributions are paid and another part to which no contributions are paid. Of course no one has made that calculation to increase the incomes of the pension, the Pension Insurance Office if we were to introduce that financial discipline, if our employers were to commit and successfully control that they do not have a double system. It's stealing at the moment of retirement, it's stealing the state budget, but it's stealing and future pensioners. We cannot agree with that, and unfortunately we did not get a response from the representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Furthermore, we remember at the time of privatisation, which passed in a shameful way in Croatia, which is the easiest possible and the most favourable name is acceptance, but in such privatisation was thought of pensioners and based on the process of converting pension funds have received portfolios with the aim of paying pensions from this portfolio through the payment of dividends. Unfortunately, this portfolio is impoverished, but even more tragically, the availability of this property is still being made today despite the opinion of the Governing Council that it is not possible to do so until ultimately the debt of the pensioners is resolved. And I repeat, what I said in the basic debate, in this report, we have no record of how much the Bureau took from the rent and the rent. If we have in mind the assets of this Institute, how much is the Croatian property that the Institute has in store for this property is large. However, we have no record of the true incomes of the rent and the rent and the way in which the property is available. We also did not get an answer during this debate, the promoter did not have to say, but the fact is that in the report we have 50 million kunas spent on unknown services. Where did the Bureau spend 50 million kuna and we have no right to know where that 50 million kuna is? If it's for representing the Bureau before the court, then it must absolutely come upon the harshest conviction. Because for that there are professional services, the Institute itself says in the report that professional jobs, and now lists which jobs the Bureau does through its professional services. So these are the questions to which we expect an answer, since the report gives us nothing optimistic. We have said, and we repeat, that in that case, of course, the data from the report cannot be changed but we can only accept knowledge and not accept it because acceptance would actually mean that we accept all the disadvantages that we are asking for as well as others we expect to find solutions for the general gain, those who have installed and given their working life, and now really deserve to live a life worthy of man.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47811	Thank you. Honorable representative Antun Kapraljevic, the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47812	Thank you, Mr. President. I would, I'll say anyway how the HNS Club will treat this report. We won't accept it. However, we are proposing certain concrete conclusions that we ask for this report to be completed, because we believe that nowhere in this report, as we have already said in the debate, there is no explanation in which way the Croatian Pension Insurance Office will prove that it behaves as a good master in principle because it does not mention in any way how it will look and how it will reach its billions of kunas for which it is damaged. And I also didn't see anywhere in the media that they asked any questions when it was an affair in Liberia, and in Liburnia they had, as far as I can see here, listed Liburnia in the 5 strongest shares of 17.9%, not a single word from the Croatian Institute, and it was also their portfolio, and therefore the Croatian People's Party is proposing certain conclusions that should be completed this report and only then could the report be given to the Court and we are asking for some information to be completed and therefore I would also read these conclusions with which we would like to undertake how the administrative council and directors and all others to make an addition to this report. The administrative board of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to submit a report on its work to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days. Under 2., the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to deliver within 30 days a complete list of companies with the stated nominal value of the shares and percentages held by the portfolio office, which, on the basis of the share management contract and the business stakes, is required by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And under 3rd obligation is made by the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to deliver within 30 days to the Croatian Assembly a complete list of companies with the precisely stated nominal value of shares and percentages that have an institution in the Capital Fund. I hope that you will all support these conclusions and that in this way we will try to complete this report, which has always been a copy of that report since last year with little changes in some items, figures, whether it is a portfolio of 7 or 8 million, everything else has been a pure copying and therefore we are looking for concrete data and to see that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office behaves as the true master of what we have entrusted to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47813	Thank you. Final review, Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Mile Rukavina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47814	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will try to look back at all the discussions, but with the aim of giving some clarifications that you could not read either in the report or were later asked questions about the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. He would not, of course, engage in any controversy but present certain facts that can further clarify the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I would generally say that, I apologize if I drop something because it's really impossible to include everything in such a rich debate, but I'm going to try what's most important and give a more complete picture of the work of the institute. About the portfolio, I'd say a few things. It continues with the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, in part, to the foundations of Article 1a. The amendment and addition of the Privatisation Act of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and these legal changes are also determined by the content of the management of the management of the portfolio and the sale and any other availability of shares and business shares and, of course, in accordance with the contract between the HFP and the HZMO of 28 July 2000. As regards the problem and several allegations concerning disputed exchanges of shares and portfolio management, I would point out that they were carried out before the portfolio was submitted to the Croatian Privatisation Fund for Management and that they are the basis of the reports, the two reports of the State Audit Office delivered to the State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia which determines all relevant facts in this regard. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to give an explanation to the Croatian Pension Investment Society and the Capital Fund. Financial reports for the Capital Fund and for the Croatian Pension Investment Society for 2004 have been published in "National Journals", No. 55/05 of 29 April 2005. I wouldn't say it now, but in it it contained everything from profits, losses, balance sheet, a report on changes in net assets, prominent financial indicators, and I'm only going to indicate that the capital fund's profits amounted to 184 million 864 thousand and were already mentioned earlier that the profit of the management company was also 8 million and 600 thousand. But I'm saying, it's contained in the mention of "The People's Newspaper. As far as the data is concerned, it has never really been our goal or interest to give certain information if I have misheard, I apologize, transparently, but we are giving data based on relevant data in the office's business books. Also related to the role of the Institute, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, a certain new role where the Institute would be in another position from the present one, I must note that, of course, it is necessary to pre-regulated the Pension Insurance Act because it is the role of the institution as an institution implementing public pension insurance, we mean Generation Solidarity Insurance is defined by the Pension Insurance Act. We also agree that the Institute as an institution, as well as any institution in this country, has its weaknesses and I have already noted in the opening statement that I also consider it, not only do I consider it but we have taken concrete steps towards removing weakness, and the Institute is known as an institution of course for its three-wayness, for the length of the exercise of rights, for poor information technology and for the very subject of the study adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to resolve this situation so that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute becomes a modern public institution for the benefit of all its insurance and users, of course and of the whole country and be a reliable service of citizens in the exercise of their rights. One particular question was when will the Institute submit the database to the company that will send the notifications and statements. I would link it to one finding, of course not in any way in my mind, but I must point out that according to the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, the Institute carried out its legal obligation to calculate the debt within a legal period, which is a month before the legal deadline. It was also not late for one day with another part of the work defined by the second law, where it defines a certain role, the Pension Fund Act, and in accordance with the law, or the Statute of the Pension Fund, we signed a contract with the pension fund management company to deliver the notices and statements on Friday, last Friday and it was defined that within 8 days, it will submit to the Statute and the agreement and the information to be made. The Institute is ready, of course it is about technical details where it is necessary with the company to edit the technical transmission of data which are the reference bases all, which is the fund, everything is defined and the matter is just techniques, but will be carried out within the said deadline which is defined. As a matter of fact, there have been several speeches about the rights of Croatian defenders, about the qualification and about a certain I would say the disputes over the implementation of the Pension Insurance Act, so I would only say a few sentences if I didn't bother you. As regards the implementation of the law, namely the translation of rights to Croatian defenders under the Law on Croatian Defence, the Institute carried out its obligation in the last year and carried out translation for 40, namely calculations for 40,000 users, of which 20 and something achieved the right to translate and precisely in the proposal, the draft budget for 2006 and 2007 and 2008 provides for the payment of a certain part of that amount. The new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is a period of 3 years and the Institute will... that the law that you have passed and started to apply since 1.1 this year and will be implemented within the legal period, is 3 years. [[You don't understand.]] Part of the issue concerned the organisational structure of the institute, and there was a specific issue about Virovitica, so here, he would answer the honourable MP. So far, the Bureau has not set up a district service for the reason it had no financial resources. For this budgetary period, for 2006 it is envisaged to be placed in office of the service because the service also has the space as indicated. And this office will put that service into operation. However, I note that this is a multimillion-dollar issue because in this particular case alone, we will have 40 employees in the Bjelovar and Osijek area service, and 40 new ones must be employed because it will be impossible to deploy people due to great dislocatedness to these jobs. As regards the highlighted, quotes, problems of services, I would explain that this data is provided by the Institute in all its financial reports in the monthly form, by the half-yearly and annual and administrative councils and by the decision-making process. And the services apply, here in particular, to the current investment maintenance because we have both facilities and equipment of the institution. Then on utility services, premiums for employees, rents for business and archive space because we have, as you know, 20 regional services and 86 outposts and we are not the owners of all our premises, and accounting services of the Institute. I'd also point out, if I've written it correctly, that the conqualification problem has been solved in the office over the past period and we have a priority. And mostly this job is done. If there are any delays left, of course they will be resolved in accordance with the law. With regard to the non-payment of pensions, that is to say, the payment within this legal period of the new Pension Insurance Act is set and the payment goes from 1st month following the submission of applications and the institution is acting in accordance with the legal rules. And another question about stopping disputes. The data that was 14 billion tied up, I think that, that the honourable representative was referring to the entire state, is not in that form, but from 10 to 12 million. It was one of my first business decisions when I came in the second half of 2004. Stopping disputes for a warm meal and salary compensation, and now we normally face the consequences of the earlier decision. I hope I've managed to answer this whole set of questions. If I forgot something, it really wasn't intentional. Any additional information either on the portfolio or on any question that has been raised we can, of course, and we want to deliver within one appropriate time frame, that a certain clarification is given if it is shown about the discussion of the honourable representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47815	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47816	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, trying to answer my question, the director says that about those 50 million kunas to file a report. Mr. Director, you report to the board of directors, not the Croatian Parliament. This is the Croatian Parliament. But you still haven't answered me completely, despite how much you haven't answered me how much your legal service actually got in the way of disputes. And that's the question you've again imposed on me now, explaining that there are 14 billion kunas of lost disputes. For Christ's sake, what does your legal service do? What does your legal service do when there are 14 billion kunas coming to collect? It's just inadmissible and unsustainable. And besides, not this explanation of Virovitica. It seems unacceptable to me because 70, 80,000 citizens of Virovitica-Podrava County are going to Bjelovar and I don't know where else you've said because you're not able to, not say a little harder words, to organize a service in Virovitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47817	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll do some more votes. I am voting on the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 is accepted. a year." Please come in. We can vote. The result? 80 votes for, 10 abstentions and 9 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government has no objection to submitting the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's report. In fact, they owe it to the law, but I think it's an unacceptable deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47821	The government holds that deadlines are too short and unacceptable for short. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47822	If the dispute is only within the deadlines and if the government accepts 90 days I accept that the conclusions will then be accepted with a deadline of 90 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47823	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47824	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! So it's not a problem in 60 or 90 days. You know that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute would be logical to draw up its financial report for 2005 and then make up a complete report and complete. And after that, to file a report to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47825	Ministers, this is about the obligations proposed, the conclusions of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and again the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. You don't have enough time. Please, Vice President, in view of the deadline, be clear and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47826	Mr. President, the 30-day deadline is too short and unacceptable. We'll take 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-17-0.u47827	All right. I am voting on the proposal for these conclusions with a deadline of 90 days. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes for, 17 abstentions and 7 against, the proposed conclusions were accepted. We're going to the next point. - Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in relation to state aid and the 2004 State aid report. In accordance with Article 19. The State Aid Act of the Competition Protection Agency submitted that report, which was held by the Committees on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, Finance and the State Budget and European Integration, which you received at the meeting together with the opinion of the Government. I ask the President of the Council, Olga Spevec, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
