ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40435	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would refer briefly to some of the remarks made by the MPs here and given that the government has referred to an emergency procedure for some amendments and amendments to the law. So I will also say the work of the Croatian public that the Law we have addressed on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax has just come from those involved. So, it's about tourist workers, agencies, hotelers who insisted that something that has been a practice so far be corrected. And the practice was that Croatian citizens pay 22% VAT on tourist services and foreign citizens pay 0%. And then what happened was that it was simply Croatian citizens that went to other countries to pay, to pay tourist arrangements to avoid paying VAT to 22% and then to pay 0%, and practically the same thing about Croatian citizens, they just paid the arrangement abroad. To avoid this, in order to avoid this non-compliance, but also this practice, there has just come an initiative from the tourist circles to go to correct, to correct these practices, and to change the law in this sense to level the value added tax at 10% for both domestic and foreign. And we think that we are doing a great service and, in particular, what we are talking about is that, not as the esteemed representative Markov said, it means that the law has been applied since 1 January 2006, which was also the proposal of tourist workers who would then include it in their tourist arrangements in 2006. As far as we are concerned, the electoral legislation that we have referred to as an emergency, which we have referred to in the Croatian Parliament, since the election cycles are over, can be freely discussed as far as we are concerned, but, of course, the Parliament will decide in the autumn if it does not arrive at this session. The agreement on avoidance of double taxation must be discussed because it is the fact that ratification goes absolutely in favour of our citizens who live alongside, in the area along the border with Slovenia, who work there or who receive pensions, and I think there should be a consensus that, if we adopt this ratification as soon as possible in the Croatian Parliament, I expect Slovenian colleagues to do the same thing in the Slovenian Parliament because without ratification in the Slovenian Parliament, no double taxation treaty can be applied. Here's so much and a proposal from the government. We therefore went into compliance with the European Union when it comes to profit tax, and then, and then the technical changes in these other laws were made to the provisions of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the city of Vukovar, on areas of special, state care and on free zones because what was in the tax code, in the Tax on Profit, is transferred only to those laws. Nothing else changes. So that can even be discussed as far as we're concerned in the package. And now about rebalancing. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided during a period of very heated economic change not to the European market, which is related to the record increase in oil prices and after the recovery of economic activity in Croatia in the second quarter, to propose a rebalancing of the 2005 budget. I would immediately highlight the most important economic trends in the first five months of this year. Industrial production as an indicator of real economic activity has seen an increase of 3.2% over the first 5 months, particularly affecting growth in April of 6.3% and in May 8.2%. The processing industry segment recorded a growth rate of 4.4% in five months, which is particularly encouraging. The retail trade as a second and significant indicator of economic activity recorded a nominal increase of 5 months from 5.6% and a 9.8% nominal increase was observed in May alone. The nights of tourists have increased by 4% in 6 months, which is a good omen for the tourist season that has already begun. I would also point out that tax revenues in the second quarter have increased by almost 10%, which is also a hint of good economic trends. Inflation despite an intense rise in oil prices is low. The production price index published last week registered an annual increase of only 2.4% in May. With favourable economic indicators, I would like to remind the distinguished representatives that this budget is also marked by the achievement of the old Croatian project, which is the completion of the Zagreb-Split highway. The last kilometers we've built this year have been built into this rebalancing that the government is proposing without change. There hasn't been any change, and that's how it's gonna stay. The budget inevitably records a high share of investments, while at the same time it does not bypass the social sphere. Investments except for highways will be made on the road, both in the roads of billions and 300 million kuna. The Croatian railways will be allocated around 2.9 billion kuna, and the reconstruction will continue at the initially scheduled rate of billions and 400 million kuna, then there are the construction of schools and other smaller infrastructure projects. So all investments in infrastructure that are extremely important for Croatia's economic growth and development will continue to be part of the rebalancing plan of the State budget for 2005. In the design of the rebalancing budget, the Government has not given up its objectives despite the restrictions and the slower growth. Five significant and equal objectives are the 2005 budget. First, already stressed support for macroeconomic stability through the reduction of the State budget deficit and the consolidation of public finances. Moreover, the reduction of deficits will generally ensure lower pressure on the growth of interest rates i.e. capital prices benefiting all economic operators and leaving more room for private ventures and private business initiatives by reducing the share of state consumption. Secondly, support for economic growth is provided in several ways. The 2005 budget rebalance creates the conditions for fiscal and financial responsible implementation of significant infrastructure projects that we have already listed. The government's strategic economic objective is to encourage economic growth on the principles of fostering domestic production and exports and to encourage foreign direct investment in production. Foreign direct investment in production will directly stimulate healthy economic growth based on production rather than only consumption. In addition, foreign direct investment will boost employment and trade exports, which is crucial for reducing trade deficits and better living standards for Croatian citizens. In the 2005 budget, the government allocated 428 million kuna to export promotion through various programmes and activities. Third, the government has put particular emphasis on reforming the education system in order to create a competitive future generation. This also implies the development of a better connection between the educational institutions and the employers' sectors in order to meet the demand for professional and educational staff needed on the labour market. The knowledge-based economy "nolide base economy", this is the formula around which Europe is united, and Croatia too needs to catch up. In line with this in the rebalancing of the 2005 budget, total expenditure on science and education and this is now particularly important ladies and gentlemen because otherwise, according to the items in the Budget, there is no insight into the complete picture. The one that goes by, in other words, the total expenditure on science and education is going to be around 8.8 billion kuna or around 9.7% of the budget. Fourthly, the social responsibility of the budget is also visible in increased pensions, for defenders, births as well as the opening of new programmes for socially endangered categories. Under the government programme, the budget encourages demographic renewal and makes the first step in the fight against the demographic devastion of Croatian society. After July 1st last year, the level of maternity benefits returned to 2000 levels increased in 2000. Thus, by rebalancing the budget, the government proposes an increase on the dissipating side in favour of social rights which are inviolable and guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution. The government has therefore decided to increase pension and defence expenditures, maternity benefits and other social expenditures that the finance minister will say more about in his presentation. Finally, the budget clearly supports the authorities of the state administration responsible for strengthening Croatia's ability to get closer and align with the European Union. Therefore, when we look at Croatia, the Croatian economy within the framework of the European Union is important to point out that the process of approaching the Union sets new challenges and objectives that need to be achieved through comprehensive reforms of the economy. In addition to strengthening the Croatian economy in such a way that it can cope with competitive pressures and the Union's market legality and the adoption of the entire acquis, Croatia will have to strengthen the capacity of the judicial system in order to meet political and administrative criteria as well as its objectives. This specifically means that in the shortest time, we need to focus on simplifying administrative procedures. It is important to make every effort to achieve a reduction in the duration of court and bankruptcy proceedings to ensure the strengthening of the role of creditors in the bankruptcy process itself. As part of economic reforms, a significant role is played by the privatisation process of the state portfolio. In this context, our strategy provides for the intensification of dynamics in the privatisation process in order to ensure better competitive strength and profitable business activity on the domestic market. Of course, privatisation has a multiplier effect on attracting foreign investment by bringing fresh capital and new technologies. And our ultimate goal, ladies and gentlemen, in the privatisation process is to increase efficiency and productivity, reduce the role of the public sector in the economy and ultimately reduce the cost of the state. It is also important in the context of institutional adjustments to ensure effective supervision of the non-bank sector, which will directly affect the stability of the country's entire financial system. The reality of the assumptions on which the 2005 budget rebalance creates assumptions for quality, fiscal and economic policy in the coming years, which will soon be published in three-year fiscal projections. Moreover, the 2005 Rebalance of the 2005 budget shows the Croatian government's determination to implement a sustainable fiscal and overall economic policy that supports Croatia's macroeconomic stability and its path towards European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40436	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40437	Dear President, Article 210. The Rules of Procedure say: "The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker gets away from the topic of the agenda, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda." At the beginning of his presentation, the prime minister spoke for five minutes about the VAT Act, about amendments to the Law on Units of Local Self-Government, about everything else but budget rebalancing, the subject of which you... I'm asking you to let me go out for a pay phone if the members of your club are going to turn off my microphone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have knowingly and deliberately violated Article 210 by showing that you do not care about the Rules of Procedure. You know that article, that you don't care about the Rules of Procedure, his provisions and this House. At the same time, Mr. Kapraljevic was not allowed to comment on the number of MPs and the quorum when you voted on the agenda, and he counted from above that you did not have a quorum, which will probably determine... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40438	Dear Representative Stazic, the Prime Minister spoke of a subject which, on the agenda, was about the rebalancing of the state budget, and you injured the Rules of Procedure by reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure which was not so I give you a warning. He is the second respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40439	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister is in his statement...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40440	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40441	Peace, please! Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40442	In his opening statement, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia argued that the introduction of a differentiated rate of 10%, i.e. abolishing a zero rate, will strengthen tourism development on one side and support all relevant structures of the tourism industry, i.e. professional associations. I believe that the incorrect first and second thesis is because organised traffic that has so far been zero makes the most important segment of total tourism. It generates individual tourism and tourism at all. In recent years since the zero rate was introduced, it has just been organised development that forms at the state level between 36% and 40% and in certain parts of our country south and Dalmatia and over 55% has just made the overall development of tourism. Therefore, the fact is incorrect, and there is also a part of the tourism industry that opposes the introduction of such a differentiated rate of 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40443	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic in what capacity?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40444	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40445	You're anything at the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40446	By the authority of the club president, I'm looking for a word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40447	There is no such thing as, under Article 223, the president or vice president of the club or other representative, and they are not present, and your club president and vice president are present, therefore you cannot get a word on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40448	They're not present, I don't see anyone, nor the president...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40449	They were there, so they left. They're quite present.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40450	But they're not in the assembly, so they're not present. I don't know what presence means to you. That they are in Zagreb or that they are in Croatia? Is that a presence?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40451	They're here. They are present, I give you explanations, if you are not satisfied I am referring to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40452	President, you faked the quorum here in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40453	Please be seated. I didn't fake anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40454	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40455	With slanders and insults, you're known for it. I would ask Minister Shuker to submit an additional report on the rebalancing of the state budget. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this budget is therefore proposed under the circumstances of recovery of economic activities in the second quarter, and recovery of economic activities is marked in the following macroeconomic indicators. So industrial production grew by 3.2% in the first five months, traffic in trade grew to a little 5.6%, net wages increased in the first four months 4.6%, export growth here I'll give two data, one without shipbuilding and the other with shipbuilding because they point to quite a difference. So the increase in exports in the first four months when shipbuilding was involved is 4.9%, and without shipbuilding is 13.6%, so when combined compared to last year. We also have an increase in imports of 7.7 in four months. Tourism has seen an increase of 3% in the first five months. We have inflation in the first six months 3.1%. What is also very important to note is that the revenues have seen a significant increase in the second quarter so that the revenues during the first half of the year have increased 6% to which tax revenues have significantly contributed, and this is above all a clear indication that the reduced revenues that occurred during the first three months of the year in view of the fiscal situation, the first three months are always the most unsatisfactory in terms of tax revenues, but looking at the first six months so the revenues have increased 6.5% compared to the previous year. Two are the main reasons why the government is proposing this budget rebalance. First of all, as we have already said, the slow growth in economic activity in the first quarter of 2005, since expected, but fortunately, macroeconomic indicators in the 4th, 5th and 6th months have changed significantly and have led to more significant growth in revenues. Therefore, the necessary change in the structure of expenditure as you have seen in the proposed budget rebalancing is not proposed nor a practical increase in total revenue and expenditure but only their different structural allocation. We are also proposing an amendment to the revenue plan, where a reduction of 786 million kuna is proposed. On the expenditure side, due to the need to provide additional financing for business expenditure, the cost structure as I have already said is changing, so expenditure on non-financial assets of 295 million and an increase in operating expenditure of 308 million kuna. The revenues in the state budget have increased according to the original plan, according to the first plan, with 86 billion 357 million. As I said earlier in 2005, this is one of the reasons why the budget's rebalance was proposed, the ministry proposed a new state budget revenue plan. The new budget revenue plan is based on real economic growth of 3.7% and nominal growth of 7.2% compared to the previous year as well as so far income achievement in 2005. What I would like to point out when we speak to the budget's revenues that the 2005 budget revenues are this rebalance of the budget, some 5 billion increases are expected from 2004 and an increase of 11 billion is foreseen from 2003. And there we can immediately answer whether the revenues are well charged or not charged. If we had economic growth of 4.2 in 2003, if we had an economic growth of 3.8 in 2004, if the 2005 income plan was planned at a level of 3.7%, and we had an increase in revenues in 2004 compared to 2003, and this budget provides for an increase of 6.3%, so this difference is a clear indicator of increased financial discipline and increased tax revenues in the state budget, and this is a clear indicator that certain projects undertaken by this government in the grey economy reduction project are already in the 2004 budget and in particular in the 2005 budget have produced significant results because I say increasing the revenues of the budget without introducing new taxes in two years for 11 billion kuna, or it is somewhere an increase of almost 15% can only talk about how much the government has been able to stand, frame the grey economy, so that the supervisory services both the Ministry of Finance, many revenues that have now passed through the state budget. Therefore, as regards expenditure, a reduction in the material expenditure of 223 million, financial expenditures of 74 million, a subsidy of 84.5 million, aid given abroad within the general state of 149.8 million, fees to citizens and households of 111 million, donations and capital aid of 9.1 million, expenditure for the purchase of non-financial assets of 225 million and other expenditures 59 million, hence the estimated reductions by certain types of expenditure of a total of billions and 6 million, while projecting an increase in expenditure therefore for pensions of civilian 340 million, the pensions of defenders of 129.4 million, encouraging housing savings of 70 million, the wages of 346.4 million, the additional retirement leave of 38.7 million, the permanent rights of Croatian defenders 35 million, and the compensation for unemployed 60 million, and here when we talk about this position of benefits for non-employment money is clearly sought out of money, so that the need not to be paid in the money, so that the money needed for the money to be paid, and the money needed for the money to be paid, the money for the money to be paid, and the money to be paid, and the money for the money to pay. So what I would like to highlight as the main priorities in this budget is judicial reform, public administration reform, education science, continuation of infrastructure projects, permanent crops in agriculture, so there are all announced reforms in the budget and all promises related to maternity benefits and rights of Croatian defenders and indexation of pensions to Croatian pensioners. The total budget deficit was 3.7% of the gross domestic product in the budget, which is a fiscal adjustment of 2.6% of the 2003 deficit, which was 6.3%, so the total general government deficit for 2005 is proposed to be 4.2% of the gross domestic product, which is a 2.1% fiscal adjustment compared to the 2003 deficit or 0.7% from the 2004 deficit. The budget also envisions privatisation revenues of 4 billion kuna, which fully covers the deficit, in the event that privatisation revenues are not realised, the finance ministry will have to be in charge of an adequate amount. And here when we talk about the deficit, covering the deficits, then I think it's important to note that the deficit can only be financed from two sources, one new loan is another one of the sale of assets, and so when we talk about the growth of public debt then in every year when it comes to public debt growth, there's got to be a number of sales that year and how many government assets were financed from the deficit that year. Here it is, ladies and gentlemen, so much for the introduction, we'll probably have a lot more details during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40457	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect quote first Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40458	It is an incorrect claim made by Minister Shuker that incomes are well charged. The basic characteristic of this budget rebalance is the reduction of the revenue side by 786 million kuna. Now, if the revenue side decreases, then it shrinks or because it's poorly planned, we planned to collect and we didn't collect, it's because we didn't know how to plan, so we wrote at least what, or because economic activity has been reduced, and if economic activity has been reduced, it means that the government doesn't know how to run this country's policy in a way that economic activity.../The speaker shuts down./
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40459	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40460	I am correcting the inaccuracies of Minister Shuker who said that all the funds for all the reforms were provided in this budget. Completely incorrect, for example, for the Ministry of Science and Education here is an indication that there is no "r" of the reforms because you have downloaded, for example, the 90% amount of money for single-skill networks and projects, there is nothing of a pedagogical standard and regulations, there is nothing of the creation of new programmes in the system of secondary education, so there is no curricular reform, and there is also no regulation of the centre for external evaluation of education, which means that there is not even a project of state graduation, there is so much about the money that you have broken down on all the items concerning reform, so there is no reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40461	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40462	It is incorrect and incorrect to compare the 2005 deficit with the 2003 deficit. In the 2004 and 2005 budget, both significant and large budget revenues were paid dividends from state-owned enterprises, unlike in 2003 when this amounted to only 108 million kuna and in 2005 when it amounted to a billion and 530 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40463	Thank you very much. It's all at the border of debate, not correction. Let's move on. One notice before further notice. The 34th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today on 12 July at 13:30 in the hall "Ante Starcevic". Do the work bodies want reporters? Here you are, Mr Furio Radin, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed today at its 25th session of the Proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. The Committee held the debate as an interested working body in the part relating to the allocation of funds to budget users used for the protection of human rights and to the financing of certain needs of national minorities in the country as well as those abroad. The debate found that the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget did not alter the resources foreseen in the State budget for 2005 for co-financing of the programmes of associations and institutions of national minorities as well as the funds for education and education in the language and letter of national minorities. However, the resources foreseen for the expert service of the Council for National Minorities and the Office for National Minorities are reduced, thereby sharing the fate of other budgetary users for national minorities. As regards funds that are directly related to the exercise of human rights, a reduction is proposed and for some an increase of funds. Thus, a reduction in the resources of the Gender Equality Office is proposed 10.2%, the Ombudsman for children 6.9% and the lawyer for gender equality is less than 13.6%, while the Office of the Public Advocate is proposed to increase the foundations of plus 19% and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Human Rights Office by plus 6%. An increase for the needs of a new Human Rights Center. This reduction should not affect the exercise of the rights provided for by the applicant's representative, as the reduction relates to the cost of wages and material costs, rather than programmes. In the debate, particular attention is given to the reduction of funds for disabled persons, especially when it comes to the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of disabled people who have not even yet functioned and are constantly reducing labour resources even though the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 2002. It is also pointed out to the financing of the social care centre, which also provides for a reduction of budget resources, although the public has recently highlighted problems in their functioning. It also warned against reducing the one-time cash aid to citizens and households in the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Care with 79 million 69 million 250 thousand kuna. So by 12.3% reduction, which can make the position of the most sensitive categories of the population worse. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that a significant part of the agricultural population due to weather disasters has been brought into an extremely difficult situation, right now in recent times, these days, and funds are needed to help them. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with 7 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40465	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament held on 12 July 2005 discussed the amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Act No 08 of 5 July 2005. The Committee considered the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 as an interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a proposing representative who pointed out that the main reasons for the changes and addition of the State budget in 2005 were slower growth of economic activity in the first quarter and the change in expenditure structure. The debate noted that Rebalance of the state budget is the result of the wrong assessment and that the funds should be used for development and not for consumption. The opinion was also expressed that there was a reduction in funds from, for example, 57 million loans for the infrastructure renewal project and the modernisation of the signalling and telecommunications system in parts of the 5C pan-European corridor from the EIB of 21051 and 64 million rail modernisation of 5C, which will slow down the development and modernisation of state-owned enterprises. After the discussion of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote 5 for and 4 against proposing to the Croatian Parliament to bring amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40467	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr. Shime Prtvenjak, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40468	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Let me inform you of the position of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The Committee discussed the Report, discussed the Amendments and Supplements to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, the Proposal for amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Proposal for amendments and addition of the Financial Plan of the Croatian Employment Institute, then the Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters, the State Budget, the Finance and plans of the non-profit users consolidated and also non-consolidated. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 33rd session held on 11 July 2005. Proposal for amendments and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 to the President of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 5 July 2005. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the amendment and addition of the State budget for 2005 as the home working body. Introductoryly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia noted that the slower economic activity growth in the first quarter of 2005 than expected at the time of budget preparation, as well as the need for a change in expenditure structure, are the main reasons for the changes and additions of the State budget for 2005. Subject law proposes to reduce the State budget's revenue plan by 786 million, etc. So according to the new 2005 plan, the total budget revenues amount to 85 million kuna 570 thousand. On the expenditure side of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, due to the need to provide additional funds for operating expenditure, it changes the structure of expenditure. A total expenditure reduction of about a billion and 6 million is proposed. In addition to the other for the acquisition of non-financial assets of 295 887 142, a reduction in material expenditure of 222,000 939, etc., a reduction in subsidies of 84 million 519. This reduction is necessary in order to ensure additional funding for the payment of guaranteed civil pension rights of 340 million kuna, defence attorney pensions of 129,4 million, salaries 346,4 million, grants for housing savings of 70 million, additional maternity leave of 38.7 million, permanent rights of Croatian defenders 35 million and compensation for the unemployed 60 million, totalling a billion of 19.5 million. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the following opinions, observations and proposals were presented on the committee. The proposed increase in expenditure totalling €17.5 million for civil pensions, defence pensions, housing incentives, salaries, additional maternity permits, permanent rights of Croatian defenders and unemployment benefits will have a significant impact on the adoption of the State budget for 2006 as it is subject to the items and obligations which will significantly reduce the manoeuvres... financial, or fiscal policy in the coming period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It warned of a very high share of public debt by the Republic of Croatia in the GDP, about 58%, and should seek to reduce the percentage. We also propose that pensioners' debt be included in public debt, however, that proposal is, in the opinion of the board member, therefore, unacceptable because the pensioner's debt has a neutral impact on the state budget. Namely, a necessary fund will be established to provide funds to repay pensioners' debt. The expenditure side of the budget is also burdened with problems with the basis of payment of salaries i.e. obligations under a collective agreement which has not yet been paid by the state, although there are strong judgments, etc., which are, and those likely to follow. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments to the State budget for 2005 together with the next amendment. Article 4 The proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, Article 4 is amended and reads as follows: Amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia shall take effect on the day of their publication in the National Journal. The argument further states, namely, that amendments and additions of budgets should be entered into force 8 days after the publication in the National Journal. And that the law of execution should come to pass on the same day in a revelation. Which is illogical. So they must both come in and the other laws come in on the same day. Therefore, this amendment is logical and the Committee proposes that it be accepted. Here are also proposed these extra budget funds that are inside the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40469	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the other committees like to? On behalf of the Tourism Committee, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40470	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 22nd session of the Committee, held on 11 July 2005, the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 5 July 2005. The Committee on Tourism considered this amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The opening statement and the reasons why changes and additions to the state budget on behalf of the proposer were proposed by Mr Niko Raic, Assistant Minister of Finance. In the light of the specific positions and items in the tourism sector, it has been clarified that it is a redistribution of available funds in favour of the incentive programme for success, family hotels. And due to the extension of deadlines, the repayment of loans and the subvening of the organisation of tourism transport, which has so far proved to be successful. Mr Robert Pende, Assistant Minister for the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Tourism, reported on the proposed redistribution of funds and expressed satisfaction with the effective achievement of the programme of incentives for success as well as the promotion and subsidisation of the organisation of tourism transport. The impact of the measures has been seen in increasing organised tourism traffic in the sub-season, subsidies are otherwise approved for the pre-season and the season which has been achieved that this year has not been, that this year there has been no traditional lack of tourist traffic in early July. The debate raised doubts about the unrealistic deficit rate, which is projected at 4.2%, which will be difficult to maintain at that level. It has also been found that the growth rate of industrial production is only 1.8%, and the proposed rebalancing cannot, does not propose instruments that would stop negative trends. With this rebalancing, public spending will increase further as expenditure increases. It has been found that economic activity has been reduced but positive indicators in tourism are welcomed to record an increased number of arrivals and overnight stays compared to the same period last year. On the basis of the debate and vote held 4 for, 4 against, the Committee was divided on the proposed amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the final proposal for amendments to the Law on the implementation of the State budget, nothing, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40471	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else on the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. We here in the Parliament are actually very simple, this budget rebalance is already accepted by the international monetary fund, we heard it at a press conference in Dubrovnik and according to the Law on the implementation of the state budget rebalancing will not be needed further because the government will know and without the Parliament, only within 15 days will inform us which positions they have changed and the Government's Parliament on state finances no longer needs. I hope that at least those 15 days will be from the moment of more significant spending of state money without the Parliament, not the next year. In fact, when we talk about this rebalancing, we can use that old people's "popping from hollow to legal", the biggest profit in this rebalancing is actually what we're going to see how much support there is here for the government in the Parliament, how many hands will rise for this budget, and that's actually determining the required majority. Analysts dealing with these numbers can only confirm that those already known facts will be repeated. The government has focused in the past on policy towards entering the European Union. However, it is obvious that this connection is lost, it is obvious that it cannot be counted on the money of pre-accession funds, and it is obvious that we have also lost a connection regarding growth and positive movements of social gross products. Because according to the latest indicators, we have been overcome by those countries that we have at least dealt with together, such as Bulgaria, Romania and others. The most important thing about this rebalancing and, in fact, for all the other budgets that we have discussed here, is that it is not developed, that it has no structural reform, nor is it brought forward, let alone that they are implemented. It is absolutely certain that they didn't even begin, which we found in the first budget of the new government when it gave up the reduced VAT rate. It's perfectly safe, and here we see macroeconomic indicators and from the very explanation of the prime minister and minister that we've also corrected the growth rate. We planned for this year a growth rate of about 5%, it's obvious that it's going to be below 4, it's planned to be 3.7, and it's probably going to be lower. Croatia needs growth rates between 6% and 8%, Croatia should base development on employment, however, it is obvious that this government is failing, it is obvious that this government does not have any goals leading the Croatian economy, the economy in this direction, and in particular there are no instruments and ways to achieve these objectives. We all know foreign debt is growing. We're talking here in light of the rebalancing that he's been stopped. However, Croatia does not need to put an end to foreign debt. Croatia needs a reduction in foreign debt, especially the internal debt that is not spoken of here, and we know that it has grown much more than external debt, and I would be interested in all of us at the HSS Club that the minister has just told us something that happened with the internal debt in Croatia that states towards domestic banks and everyone else so that he tells us something about the indifference that is happening in Croatia because every day we hear the businessmen move from 120 days to 200 and a few days, and that phenomenon deserves attention that we here in the Assembly are paying some time. But when we talk about foreign and domestic debt, it's important how we spent it. It is absolutely certain that the loans and that money were not received by the exporters. It is absolutely certain that they were not obtained by those involved in production and we certainly did not spend them on buying those goods called last-generation technological equipment to try to run production and run Croatia to use the old but used slogan. The failure to increase exports is obvious. Obviously, when we revitalized production, we failed to do anything. Obviously, we have failed to do anything about strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. For example, I would be interested in just one part of that story where the 500 zones for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs we talked about in the budget for this year and in the budget for the previous year went missing? I would be interested and we did not hear what foreign investors are interested in Croatia today, because it is obvious that without foreign investment, foreign capital cannot be counted on with a significant increase in social gross, social gross product. It is interesting to think, for example, in Slavonia if we are to reach $10,000 per capita, how much time would it take and what rate of growth would it take? In Slavonia, in order to reach those 10,000 we need a 15% growth rate over the next five years. I am particularly disappointed here, which is obvious to give up the projects in the budget. We don't mention any mention of Croatia's gasification. We don't mention anything about capital investments in agriculture and agricultural land sales. We're not talking about irrigation. We forgot about the strong Croatian bank again. We don't mention the Post Office anymore, or Croatia Bank as a domicile, domestic bank. On the contrary, we're reducing HBOR's core capital by 5 million kunas who's the only thing he's done lately to track the exporters. However, I believe that the Croats have not forgotten the pre-election promises. I feel the same way that the Croats have not forgotten to work. However, a smaller pension awaits him in Croatia. Whoever doesn't, in fact, is waiting for him nothing but waiting at the Employment Service. Who welcomes the decision to repay the pension debt is the question of whether the model will welcome the payment? In addition to the European Union, Croats are actually in one big waiting room, in one big waiting room, and with this government of the Republic of Croatia, we should welcome a miracle so that some of the existential issues such as work, such as the apartment and everything else, are resolved. However, when we talk about the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has promised and is still using the slogan "less and more efficient, more effective" then it is especially worth a comment of the figure of 346 million kuna that will be to increase wages in this sector. What's most important in this rebalancing budget is that it's completely non-transparent. We can't see and so can the general public what happens when we reduce positions in individual ministries or institutions. We don't know what was done and why it wasn't done? We don't know if this government has enough projects or if it hasn't been able to create projects and then give up its implementation. However, it is absolutely certain that the main feature of this Budget is bad planning. Rebalance does not foresee solutions that would stop negative trends, and here I mean small growth of gross social product, exports, I mean employment and what we need most is production growth. It is absolutely certain that through this rebalancing public spending will increase further. It will continue to increase, and the latest macroeconomic indicators that are reportedly talking about economic recovery are actually contradictory to this budget. We announce the expected rate of growth of the social gross product. We announce big jumps in economic recovery in the second quarter, while counting with much smaller revenues in filling the state budget. However, it is questionable in this way whether a projection of the growth of the social gross product of 3.7% for the simple reason that we do not have solutions to achieve this rate, let alone to get to the one we need between 6 and 8%. In fact, we do not have answers to those fundamental solutions that plague Croatia as we do not have an answer for example, nor to the sudden jumps of oil on world markets or in Croatia. I hope that we will not have such a technical budget which, once again, will be just a spill from hollow to empty than that we will finally get a development budget with which we all count on it to appear in the parliamentary benches and hope that all rebalancing will not be done by the government in the future as provided for by law and without support and debate in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40473	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Pecek has presented a series of incorrect allegations. I will only correct what I consider most important, and that said that this government's industrial production and employment is failing. This is not true because industrial production grew by 3.2% in the first five months, and as regards the unemployment rate in 2003 was 14.3 and 2004. 13.8 i.e. in May 2005 eleven thousand nine hundred twenty, seventy-two unemployed are less than 3.7% less than the first five months of this year. And here's only this part I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow Pecek, they're incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40475	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40476	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Pecek where he claimed that this rebalancing was an empty flow from the hollow to the void, and I must say that this is a completely incorrect claim, and that it is true that this rebalancing of funds is being done in all segments, not the wastefulness that you ruled while you were in power. I'm just going to point out that wastefulness concerns the advance payment of relatives as well as the illegal allocation of funds made during your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40477	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The club, before that, a representative of the government and minister of finance, Mr. Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So since the honourable representative spoke about certain provisions of the Law on Budget Implementation, and it is likely to be the subject during today's debate very often, let me just quote the report of the State Audit for 2003, where it says that it has been redistributed 3 billion without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament, which is, in spite of the existing law, and the records are not harmonised and the control is difficult. Also, as regards redistributions, I quote: The 2003 State budget audit found that individual decisions on redistributions were incomplete, i.e. apart from individual increases, i.e. the reduction of plans per item did not show total increases and reductions although they have several pages of the items corrected in 2004. So much for the provisions of the budget law. It is not a newspaper, it is the consequence of the state in the public finances of the Republic of Croatia and therefore it is nothing this government invented, and the State Budget Act was passed in 2003 and I remember an amendment to around 700 million structural reforms in agriculture that was never explained in this House. And also as far as public debt is concerned. Speaking of data, official data from the Croatian National Bank, so as far as the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is known what is a public debt. Public debt is practically financing deficits in one year, and as I said in my opening statement, the deficit can only be financed from two sources. One is a credit liability, and the other is the sale of capital assets, so the state's assets and thus finance the deficit. So in 2000, the deficit was financed in the total amount of 16 billion, 13 billion and 900 were debt, public debt growth. 2 billion and 867 million in sales. In 2001, a total of 12 billion 236 million, out of which 7 billion and 995 million financing new borrowings, i.e. By increasing public debt, 4 billion 241 privatisation revenues. In 2002, 9 billion and 969 total deficits financed by an increase in public debt, therefore by borrowing. In 2003, total deficit funding of 12 billion 946 million of them 9 billion and 591 million new borrowings i.e. increase in public debt and 3 billion 355 million in privatisation revenues, and 2004. 10 billion 91 million fully funded by the new debt. So much for increasing public debt so you'll see when privatisation revenues are excluded that fortunately this trend of public debt growth, i.e. fiscal adjustment is in positive trend, i.e. The deficit decreases year after year. Now whether it is being reduced at the rate that we would like it to be another pair of shoes, but also this information from the Croatian National Bank on how the deficit was financed in the previous year clearly speak in favour of our discussions on what kind of deficit it was. And as for the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, then I must say that the borrowing trend in the internal debt in the Republic of Croatia has increased last year, but therefore the external debt has been reduced, I speak in kunas, from 45 billion and 830 million to 44 billion and 400 million. So the external debt of the Republic of Croatia was reduced by a billion and 400 million kuna in the 12th month of 2005 and I will respond immediately to the thesis that is very often heard in the Croatian public, that the Croatian state's decision to borrow on the domestic market encourages domestic banks to be in debt outside and in such a way indirectly through domestic banks is owed outside. It is simply a notorious lie because the biggest buyer of the bonds of the Republic of Croatia are insurance companies, funds and companies. Banks buy very little bonds, therefore it is not true that Croatian banks are in debt so that the state could be in charge of them. Let's look at every show "The Bond of the Republic of Croatia" and see who are the biggest buyers of these bonds. So what has been a trend in the Republic of Croatia over the last year and a half, that the state is in debt at home, that on the domestic market, that in such a way what is very important, we have strengthened, revived the financial market in the Republic of Croatia, so we have also come to the conclusion that the Republic of Croatia, in fact, was able to issue kuna bonds without the currency clause at the beginning of this year. This clearly points to stability and the financial sector and also to the stability of public finances. All indicators show that exports grow faster than imports and even when the biggest generator so to speak, when you see the largest share of shipbuilding, when it is excluded then the indicators of export growth are much better than when shipbuilding is involved. Also when we look at the position in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then they will see that more than 250 million kunas of interest subsidies for exporters were allocated last year. So much for certain incentives from the budget. And as for the growth of gross domestic product, I'd be happy to say by magic wand that we want a gross domestic product between 6 and 7. Unfortunately, neither did this government before us, it is very difficult for us to do so. At the moment when the investment from the budget was basic and the main generator of gross domestic product growth, it was in 2002 and that year we had economic growth 5.3%, but the following year when the investments from the budget were higher, given the possibilities that could be allocated to capital investments could not be increased by the following year, so in 2003, gross domestic growth fell from 5.3 to 4.2%, and this clearly indicates something else, that there must be conditions for investments to be created so directly domestically external and that there must be a change in public and private sector relations and that the private sector must finally take over the bat and be a generator of larger and stronger growth of gross domestic product as long as the gross domestic product is the most dependent on capital investment from the budget we can unfortunately only dream of these sizes that you and you, Mr. Pecek, but unfortunately neither the government in which you have come near these indicators, and I hope that this will create direct investment for the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40479	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister made a series of incorrect allegations, first of all, that the former government had a growth rate much higher than the present one, that's exactly what we all know. Another incorrect assumption is that the redistribution of the budget was made in 2003. Mr. Minister, Mr. Djakic, please step out of 2003 because if you will still be in 2003, then we will not have a 6% growth rate for the next 5 years. I'm asking you to be in 2005 if not already 6 and 9 as we should be discussing today. Equally, Mr. Djakić, please devote yourself to a little HVIDRI and the budget and dividends that I ended up in the budget instead of getting 240 million.../The speaker shut down./... Here in the Parliament we are silent about it, of course these topics should be opened, let's not direct money into production and let's not spill from hollow to empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40481	You have reported for correcting the incorrect allegations to Minister Shuker, not Djakic, and there is also no mention of anything about the defenders and so on, so you left. However, this is how in this House will continue to go as it has so far, I am merely finding facts. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Joseph Leko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. It is an incorrect claim that Croatia owes most of the funds and pension companies on the domestic money market, because according to your information, it is the most in debt to the bank. He's only asking for one to cover his debt to drugstores, the state is in charge of 800 million kunas, although we don't know what shape that debt is, so I'd just like to ask you to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40483	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40484	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. That's what the Prime Minister and Mr. Shucker said about it, but I have the impression that by reading and listing these figures, they show that Croatia is in trouble. We can fool ourselves as many gentlemen as we want, but we must admit that Croatia is in trouble. Croatia is not in living mud, but surely in trouble it is. Why? So because almost all of the parameters in 2005 were worse than they were in 2004 and in 2004 they were worse or worse than they were in 2003. It is true that the minister says that the general government deficit is less, which is good in 2003 was 6.3%, 2004. 4.9 This year, the Day of God will be 4.2%, but after this leap of oil price after impact on London, after economic opportunities in Germany resulting in the fall of Schroeder's Government in Germany, the crisis of identity in the European Union, I fear that we are not well-written either. It is well evident that this 11 billion kuna revenue increase, which in two years, has been achieved by the budget. We should and should admit that our problems are exclusively our own, no one has the right to call on others but we have to sober up and we must admit that for 10 years since the end of the war we have lived here above the possibility of a gross social product, we live above the possibility of our economy, and it is obvious that such a policy will continue in the years ahead. We'll spend more than we'll make and then we'll save clearly on the weakest, but about that later. As for this rebalancing, he is, in the opinion of the IDS Club of Technical Nature, somewhat extorted, but he sends a clear economic message, a bad one. Is that now people are wondering in this parliament if in June it could be planned in six months how that so rudely with nearly 1 billion kuna was wrong about pensions, defense pensions and other expenditures, but I agree at this point the rebalancing is necessary. It is clear that, on the other hand, the opposition will be against him, today when the differences between left, right, especially after the last local elections, little remains on the political scene where you will be politically different, but one such document where the opposition, the positional difference obviously is the budget rebalance, and the opposition must be against. Which is the essence of the budget, reduces the meaning of expenditures, material financial expenditures, subsidies, it is one clear message of shipbuilding, assistance given abroad within the general state, etc., and increases the pensions of civilian 340 million kuna, pensions for defenders 129 million kuna, housing savings paid by additional maternity leave of Croatian defenders for 35 million, benefits for unemployed 60 million kuna, a total of EUR 60 million and 19 million, but for me, however, it is a reduction of funds for investments, there is no Minister Ljubicica in health here and for 226 million kuna, and a withdrawal from public companies which will say that this modest growth of the gross social product of 1.8% and the biggest employer is thus another blow. Let me now that the problem was more precisely planned to pay off my pensions, to express a little skepticial recovery of the debt to the pensioners as proposed. It is clear that the Constitutional Court's decision should be respected, the pensioners' debt exists there is no dispute, but the point of view is that if the method of harmonisation is changed to pay growth, it will move to so-called. The Swiss formula that in 10 years, the budget will be saved by 27 billion kuna, and only in 2006, 2007 more than 2 and a half billion kuna, which will say that pensioners themselves will repay the debt or even better those 250 thousand who will not receive anything because they will receive pensions up to 1500 kuna, which is a shame, will pay back for those who have more pensions and the other can turn this into a mechanism of a complete sale of the Republic of Croatia where, for example, Croatia's insurance, 15% of the INA, HT, etc., the future government can take away the leverage relatively easy profits that can be filled with the budget. The truth should be acknowledged that pensions began to align with wage growth in 2004 that this had not been the case before, but today this variant is more unfavourable than the harmonisation of pension growth with the cost of living. But the point is, pensions are easy to get back, sell something back, but it's hard to, say, resuscitate shipbuilding or start GDP growth in the Republic of Croatia. 129 million kuna were found for normal service of defence pensions, it must be found, it is necessary and indeed did not channel this rebalancing money into anything that is not absolutely necessary, though. However, one category of citizens, despite all declarations of anti-fascism, talks by President-in-Office of the Parliament on Day 22. Six can't get better days. These are NOB fighters all getting something, with something no one is clearly satisfied with, but NOB fighters won nothing or will get, to return to economic parameters now, Croatia is in crisis. It would certainly be interesting to come out with macroeconomic indicators and in Croatian counties to see all the tragedy of the economic moment of the Republic of Croatia. For example, unemployment in Istria is 6.1%, in Zagreb 7.8%, in the Primorje-Gorski County 12.7%, the Croatian average is 18-19%, in Slavonia more than 30%. Today I read in the morning list that the gross social product in Zagreb is 23 thousand euros. Only Zagreb and Istria have a gross product above the republican average, with 10 thousand said in Istria. They're a little weird about that proportion. In the Primorje-Gorski County, 7 grand. Zagreb, gentlemen, we see Croatia's vacuum. Centralisation will eat Croatia. Paralela, what we once heard, listened to 30 years ago "Kosovo for Belgrade is being built" can be translated Zagreb is being built, I don't know the other ends are working. These regional differences of gentlemen break Croatia, while Istria may be the most important that Slavonia does not work without state aid but the government must understand that without decentralisation there will be no peace. Okay, the government will no longer have protesters in St. Mark's Square, but this does not mean that despite this union deal, dissatisfaction will not be found in Croatian labour and despite the government and trade union agreement that even those who are not members of the union pay a union contribution. It's unconstitutional to me, it's so determined by the Constitutional Court, it's a tax on union bureaucracy that I don't see why someone would finance if it works and doesn't want it. What is most important, however, and it was also said by the prime minister and finance minister to realize that either the capital will come here or the Croatian citizens will go after that capital. On Friday, we all agreed that more capital from Croatia comes out of the way of the European Union through bank profits, profits from HT etc. but what capital comes to Croatia. This neocolonalism that we chose ourselves when we decided to sell the rescheduled banks, I stress the rescheduled banks, it was certainly the biggest mistake of the HDZ since BiH. How this will now be expressed, for example, after the payment of war damage in the Konavlas on that second occasion. The truth is that these foreign banks have us on the other hand and it should be fair and admit, they deprived us of the bankruptcy of these institutions but they enslaved us in the long run and so at least let us keep these two remaining banks, Postanska and Croatia Banka. I want to quote a part of the explanation from this material that we got. Gross domestic product growth in the first quarter of 2005 was 1.8%. The slowdown of growth has contributed almost all of the components of the gross social product, especially investments and capital and exports. Private consumption slowed down to 2.4% while the state dropped by only 0.1%. So, who's slowing her down? Private consumption. Unlike the same period in 2004, when capital investment growth of 8.9% was reported in the first quarter of 2005, their growth was 0.3%, exports increased by 1% compared to 5.8% in the last quarter of 2004, etc., etc. And it's a disaster. It's kind of, a man can say, dark. Let's sober up and figure it out. Either the capital in Croatia or the citizens of Croatia will go after that capital. One Slovakia, I keep repeating after this pay phone, exports almost $30 billion, Croatia only $8 billion. They export four times more than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Slovenians export 6 times more than Croats per capita, and now the question is what is Croatia waiting for. In addition to privatisation we now see, it is interesting, the IMF is looking even though it is not important for the IMF but we ourselves are to blame for everything, reducing subsidies and social rights. It affects, above all, shipbuilding and social inclusion in health care. It's those five, ten kunas, changing the formula by indexing pensions, that's the Swiss pension, the public sector wage agreement. That's what HSU's looking for. So you can't on the one hand, so to speak, vote for this rebalancing no matter what he's technical, no matter what he doesn't contain at this point a political message. He may not even be controversial political but this rebalancing which has been extorted sends a clear economic opportunity and he says it best, and he speaks at what time the Republic of Croatia is at this time, especially since in the 2006 budget we must honour this agreement with the IMF and that will mean a reduction of subsidies, a reduction of social rights, a reduction of health participation, a change in the indexing of pensions, an agreement on salaries, and that will clearly then have clear political, social and not just economic implications. And that is why Croatia needs to be decentralised, deburocratised, deregulated. Croatia, I want to say that, today 2005, there is no need for yet-to-be early parliamentary elections. Not because no one is ready for them financially, and I don't know how, and especially because they're not ready for citizens, but because the third election in this year literally means after the presidential, local, to put it this way, they would ruin Croatia because it would be a completely lost year. All of 2005, we have been dealing with each other, not to say it ourselves, and it is necessary to deal with real problems now by creating working conditions, by encouraging work, by creating an atmosphere to make it worth your while in Croatia because when elections are run by social policy, it does not cause you any election damage. For the end of the rebalancing is technical, redistributions are controversial in the IDS in health care. The Department of Health loses 226 million kuna, investment in hospitals. There's no need to be surprised at the small growth of the GDP when we're almost focusing all the money on consumption. What hurts is that it will probably suffer damage both Pula and the new KBC in Rijeka. And finally, when there is no foreign investment, the state needs to invest and it is not leading development policy but social peace. However, economic parameters are bad for the first five months that coincided with the presidential and local elections. And finally, there will come a time when we'll all have to think more about how to make money and not just how to spend it. And I end up not having an environment of oil, terrorism in London, the crisis of the identity of the European Union, elections in Germany, recessions in Italy, etc. They're not prone. Two thousand will be gentlemen of a difficult year. However, either we will all turn to the future or Croatia will simply enter a difficult period. After seven, I dare say, relatively good years, easy years for the government, not individuals, for the government will come seven difficult years not only for individuals but for those who will lead this government. And that Bible metaphor may be closest to what awaits us. The government continues to draw money from public companies, 849 million kuna, which will say it will spend a billion kuna 530 million in dividends for current needs but will also affect GDP growth. So, gentlemen, pull the land gas. It is planned to increase debt by 640 million kuna but if the revenues from privatisation are not realised it will be much more, the excise duty on beer, alcohol, return those 0.5 proms. It's too expensive, people don't drive. It loses the state, you cut the margins and excise fees, but the worst thing is that healthcare runs out of 226 million kuna for investment. It's not good, it's not good to give up investment at this point and the biggest investor employer, the entrepreneur is a state and you have no one but to rely on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40485	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40486	In the otherwise inspired presentation of Mr. Cain, one false perception of interpretation was stolen. Namely, he said that paying dividends to foreign owners is the reason for reducing fiscal potential or budgetary resources. That's incorrect. It is true that the reason for the possible reduction of all fiscal potentials is a lack or an inadequate number of production potentials and debates serious if we know what our country's fiscal potential is that only so much and to that end we can find those who will spend it on the other side. And the developmental character exclusively generates the success of one country's fiscal potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40487	Thank you very much. I would now like to interrupt this debate on budget rebalancing and move on to the Report of the mandated immunity commission on the termination of the representative's term of office, Mate Štimec, and the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Tomislav Tomic. We're moving on to the budget rebalancing debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40489	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. We could discuss here all items of budget rebalancing that are at least unusual, which I will of course do. But what concerns a man most is the context in which we discuss this. On the one hand, many independent analysts have seen that Croatia is in a difficult economic state, however, no one from the government is publicly responding to such catastrophic assessments. It is said about certain items, how difficult it is for us to fill the budget, and quite casually it goes over the fact that there is actually an economic slowdown in Croatia. So, Mr. Minister, first of all, before any further debate, you have to explain the reasons for this economic slowdown. Is this the launch of Croatia, is it economic growth announced or not? Because if it is clear from your data that it is gross, that the growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2005, is only 1.8%, if it is obvious that the growth of gross domestic product has fallen for a year after year then someone has to wonder whether the measures of economic policy carried out by this Croatian government were the ones that were really needed or not. Moreover, this shows another regrettable fact, which was that it was a complete error to plan for the growth of this budget based on some vision of the growth of the gross social product. It's a mistake that's being systematically made in this country, which is that someone is fantasizing economic growth, and then based on this fantasised economic growth, they're pulling the growth of the state budget, and then in the second half of the year, everyone is suddenly, and there's this rebalancing, it's actually technology. But what's interesting is that every year, when the budget is adopted, the finance minister swears there's no way to change, there's no way to adopt any amendment because the budget is so fantastically designed that it doesn't allow for change, it's a perfect work of the human mind, so that after six months it's claimed that it needs to change. Now a man wonders if the perfect work of the human mind is what at the beginning of the year or this right now. I'm going to set a specific example. So we've been making amendments, and none have been accepted. In the department of the sea, international co-operation has been sought to reduce this amount in time with 55.7 million kuna, 12 million kunas lower. It's not accepted, not a word! No way, no way! That it would now be reduced by 8 million kuna. And now it's all good, perfect! What's the problem? We wanted that surplus, that difference, now it appears as a surplus, that difference shift to, say, modernising coast guard boats, it's not done! Will it be now? I don't know. Maybe in the fall we'll have another rebalancing, maybe this is just a technical rebalancing. But what's obvious is that until yesterday he swears to the invariability of some of the figures in the budget that then six months would be so much so warmly changed. I don't have to mention all the dramatic debates in the Parliament were brought about the modernisation of the Croatian Army, but here, for the equipment and modernisation of the HV, it reduces the item in the budget by 51 million kuna. So why is it shrinking? It is being reduced because obviously someone estimated that the Croatian military does not need tanks, that the Croatian military does not need modern equipment and that all it needs from the Croatian army is a few centaurs with some light armored vehicles and some helicopters that we will send around to ISAF missions and so on. But the fact is that it can be read from a Croatian budget this engaged. And another thing that just stings. This is about how the government was referring to Croatian defenders. There is talk of an increase in redistribution for Croatian defenders but let me ask one fundamental question. What about the money from HT dividends for the Croatian Defence Fund? What about those dividends? What about the dividends from the INA shares intended for the Croatian Defence Fund? A responsible government would take care of that. The responsible government would have predicted that in this rebalancing. The responsible government would not give the answer my club colleague Vlado Jukic received if it were not necessary to respect it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Privatisation Act, it clearly states that that stock that is intended for the transfer to someone, let's say, the owners of nationalised real estates, that this share is reserved and that its income from its dividend remains in the Fund. But the INA Privatisation Act and the HEP Privatisation Act will see the first one, an exception has been made. A "legal specialis" has been created in which the dividend must be sent to the Croatian Defence Fund or kept for payment to the Croatian Defence Fund when it is formed. It wasn't done here. And only in this way is the Croatian Defence Fund damaged only for HT 140 million kuna. But there's no mention of that in this rebalancing. In this regard, we have made a request for a credible interpretation of the Parliament. I expect that the Parliament will also be manifested. To know whether or not the law was really to be respected? Or have we really come to an unusual situation so that we can have laws that we shouldn't follow? Well, then it shouldn't even be predicted in the State budget. The same goes for INA shares. So from that title alone, the Budget had to provide for that difference of nearly 300 million kuna. There are, of course, a whole series of other unusual items here. Ministry of Economy. It reduces separations to improve competitiveness. Perhaps this is the reason why our competitiveness this year has dropped to, lower on the competitiveness scale, but this also reduces the economy ministry to boost exports and promote our products in exports, which can also explain why we are so desperately standing in the external trade balance. Equally so funny are small and isolated for Croatia's small economy agency and for, guarantees for small economies. On the side of how does HAMAG work? On the side of which the calvary has to be passed by a small businessman until he gets a guarantee from HAMAG. And aside from the fact that, in that time, a thousand times, a man wonders what he needed all along, but the fact is that, working in such a way, we cannot modernise our small economy and economy in general and we cannot become competitive and then explain this desperate economic growth. We could talk about the Ministry of Agriculture here. Look out, the Ministry of Agriculture for the Study of Biological Wealth has only a million kunas a year. Perhaps that item would then be better called the item of monitoring the destruction of the biological wealth of the sea. I remind here of the fact that the negotiations with Italy on fisheries have not started yet, and they have not started because no one on the Croatian side has defined what these species are living on the seabed and fall within our epicontinental belt, so they do not fall into the economic belt and do not fall within the quotas that we may be giving to the Italians based on Article 62. The Convention on the Law of the Sea. In order for us to know that, someone has to follow the biological wealth of the sea. Is a million kunas enough a year for that? I claim it isn't, and I claim we're being irresponsible to the protection of our biological wealth of the sea. It is also interesting to note that the Ministry of Agriculture has reduced the items for the destruction of meat-bone flour, dangerous substances, the causer of cow madness from 4 and a half million kuna to only 720 thousand kuna. Did we really get rid of all the meat-and-bone flour supplies, or is this being solved in some way unknown to us? Not to mention, for many years, the Ministry of Agriculture has reduced the division from 80 to 63.8 million kuna. It is clear that it cannot increase the number of permanent plantations after entering the European Union. Every country that begins negotiations is frantically planting multi-year-old plantations. No, I don't. Here it also decreases for multi-year plantations from 80 to 63... A million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if it's saving, but if it's saving, then it's economic suicide in the area of agriculture, and then it's a completely wrong strategy. And that's the question that's going through this whole budget for us at the club. Does the government really have a consistent economic policy that it can keep apart for a year and a half? So a year and a half ago, he claims one thing. He's saying something else today. He once swears to the development of agriculture and the protection of our farmers by the European Union. Second, he claims that we do not need such incentives for many years of plantation and that they need to be reduced. Is that fear from the start of the negotiations? Is that taking better positions for negotiations? I don't know, but we think it's completely wrong. We could look back now on a whole series of unusual items at the Ministry of the Sea. Let's say the fact that 19.7 million kunas are allocated for the intervention helicopter service, but at the same time more than the detachment for the island's intervention helipads. What are those new helicopters gonna land on? On, on vines or maybe on olives. Or maybe the sea, floating pontoons? That's completely unclear. Subsidies for the construction of ships for domestic ship carriers are also reduced. I suppose it's to make it easier for us to import the sides, but despite the increase in subsidies for the domestic shipping lines that we've discussed here and the other day by discussing the Ship-Line Transport Act, the same story has been repeated over all these years. We're getting a number in the package. Of the 312 million kunas, and if none of the Ministry of the Sea were worthy of reason, which line does it go as much as and why? 312 million kunas are here, ladies and gentlemen, so you guess what that's for. This is not how responsible Parliament is handled. Also, 2 million kunas are given for the determination of maritime goods limits. Just be careful this country doesn't often know where the maritime good limits are. We don't have a marine goods cadastre, but the Ministry of the Sea is enough 2 million kunas a year for that. It may fit that promise made to the "ORCA" on Hvar that, if necessary, the "ORCA" will move the borders of the maritime goods. Well, then you don't need the money to determine the exact limit of maritime good. In this way, the government is responsible for one of the most important Croatian resources. Not to mention the fact that the University of Zadar and the University of Dubrovnik are reducing investment for capital investment to edit buildings, Zadar loses 3 million kuna, Zadar University of Dubrovnik 8 million kunas and people are automatically wondering why we set up these universities if the Ministry does not want to give money but in this first year of their work to modernise and equip facilities in which these universities will operate. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to support this kind of budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40490	Thank you very much. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40491	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Any debate on the budget was the one when the budget was adopted or at any stage when it was mentioned normally to cause excitement and curiosity but also the wish of all potential users of such a budget. It is quite clear that this is the most convenient polygon, the area for our mutually speaking let's say that I do not say rougher, and that, of course, given the very large structure of the budget and in the revenue and expenditure side, there can be an entire series of arguments either detailed and any macroeconomic and others in which the image can then be shown in one way or another. Also possible available data that can be argued with, can be sources, can be different, so I will use today or try to use the latest data even from July on certain movements from different sources, but official sources so that the situation can be shown in another way. As regards the adoption of technical adoption itself, as we have already heard, and otherwise the debate on this technical adoption of either the budget, but in particular the budget rebalancing, it is clear that, at the end of next year, that this budget is being adopted, for this year we have brought it into the conditions under which the movement of domestic economic and international influence has been forecasted and that we have come to new knowledge as well as those that could not be predicted at the given moment. The rebalancing instrument seems to me last year at this same time, if not perhaps on the same day we also discussed here on similar movements that we had in that time. Of course, some events took place at the beginning of the year especially in the first quarter, which certainly has consequences for the movements all year round, but also for the movements that I briefly want to bring out in the European especially the environment of those countries with which Croatia also has the largest trade share, but also in the area of services in which we have a greater participation and they are working backwards with us on imports, i.e. on exports in plasma. Therefore, I would like to warn first of all that in this argumentation of the situation and movement in the European environment, and recently last week we discussed these movements of the gross social product in the European countries, and I only point out that Europe records a rate of 2%, although it is planned for 2.4 and for the world as an average, I quote 4.2 and it was envisaged 4.5. What is important for Europe, that is, our environment that I would like to warn on behalf of the Club that a particular recession has appeared in Germany, Italy and perhaps slightly less in Slovenia, and I am particularly pointing out that these three countries are exactly our biggest trading partners, and the biggest contribution to tourism revenues is made by these three countries. Therefore, their direct and indirect effect on these movements has a certain negative effect and impact. In our terms in the first quarter, I have already said and I point out once again that there has indeed been a recession that has occurred in the first quarter economical for which, of course, certain goals that we have set in this period need to be corrected. In particular, the negative impact on the formation and correction of the gross social product on the expected rate of around 3.7 instead of 4 and something, 4.2 as much as it did, were these external impacts, so-called "external influences". import inflation in one part and then on the price trends of all other aggregates, then on the impact of this first quarter of the negative economic first quarter as it is, the slowdown of domestic and foreign demand during that period, because it is a seasonal impact in that period, also this year's growth, i.e. this second quarter of this year encourages the increase of personal consumption as the largest generator of GDP growth and shows the developments we will see later and the wages and credits as sources of bank credit as well as consumption and will certainly make its expected contribution in the future period. A very short note that tourism is impossible to speak especially in the first quarter because if new, fresh data is not available to support positive developments in the tourism sphere, and in this sense the expected movements of these fundamental macroeconomic objectives during that period. Industrial production is only due to the relationship, January 1, May 3.2 and now in May over 8%. Of course, when it comes to the average annual level that it is then an average impact but warns that it is the very industrial production that makes up the backbone of industrial production in Croatia, the processing industry, the food industry that is exactly the basis of it, so that we keep that recovery especially now in June and also the Serbian data suggest that this recovery is more significant and that it will have a positive impact on the next movements. In the consumer price index, we were reminded of an extremely difficult winter period, first because of the cold and the negative impacts on high price and inflation in that period, and on the other hand we had such an impact in... the zone is free to say construction and other impacts in that period when many activities have actually died, and now they finally have their rapid progress and we expect that this consumer price index will have a significant impact on the price decline of food products expressed in recent times, we hope that the elemental disasters, current these days in the second part of the year, will affect the price increase and the price correction, but that it will significantly have an impact on this drop in the price effects of demand during that period. The retail trade also records recovery and this recovery is, of course, generated by that part of personal consumption, thus they are kausually bound and the other will give their effect in the coming time. We heard about external debt and we'll hear a lot more debates, and given the time I have here, we'll see later in the debate with the latest information that will be discussed tomorrow at the CNB, which is information from yesterday from these days on about the state of internal debt and the state of external debt of the state of the state. They are very current, encouraging in that part of the movement, in the external debt here I only say at the annual growth rate slows down from 11.8 in March to only 9% in April and there are positive changes here, but banks still have high participation in external debt especially until April, but now in these two months they are also recording, although they are stagnating, registering their progress also in increasing that debt, therefore, the debt on the external market is gradually falling, the state is stabilising external debt, because the greatest threat of impact was precisely from that sector and from that area on the movement in the country and potential uncontrollable movement. We heard about employment and we think that they especially and we need to say for the seasonal impact at the end of this period now and even more in the coming period to gradually stabilise, which certainly gives its contribution through those employment and income consumption effects resulting from the salary because the contributions make up a significant part of the revenue into the budget. Credits to business banks and they are quite significant in the first four months, however, in the last two months their effect has been reduced somewhat but thus also foreign market responsibilities. However, housing loans and what fluctuates it is an allocation of funds between citizens or personal consumption and between businesses and businesses so that it has seasonal character, seasonal influence and we expect them to make a significant contribution in the future. About all these elements of the macroeconomic environment, I just wanted to say in this part of the exposure that they have a certain guarantee of the future movement and the achievement of this change and the rebalancing that we are proposing. What is very important is that the fundamental objectives, hence the fundamental objectives of macroeconomic, development and social policy, are not changed by this rebalancing. They change structurally, they change in those areas that are already, now July, they know that by the end of the year they cannot be realised in the extent in which they are intended regardless of the good or bad planning but the fact is that at this moment it is precisely the time that this part can then be planned so that we do not come at the end of the year and we will see through the Budgeting Act that if there are fewer negative deviations they can also be harmonised. Here, for all these reasons for income and correction for around 786 million around these revenues, that it will not compromise the fundamental macroeconomic objectives, fiscal, monetary policy in our country and that stability through this period is guaranteed in the coming time. In these revenues, in the income structure, what is certainly not good because it is impossible to analyse all other revenues, we have a part of the positive trend and that part of the negative through excise duties and those effects that are linked through oil and then the price of oil through and all those segments that affect it and other excise duties should do all the effort and I believe that by the end of the year the government must finally take control to achieve increased walks and then their impact on the increase of the gross social product, but also that other effect, which will be of course a smaller deficit at the end of the year after the reconciliation of all commitments. Costs are a total reduction, but when we look at indexation then the increase from the previous year. Therefore, in that part too, we think that the situation is not worrying and that the government will be able to control the area completely. They've been listed in the expenditures before. I just want to say the basic expenditure fees, because it's impossible that exactly the material expenditure is therefore the gross reduction of that effect, I'm talking about the reduction, the material expenditure, the part of the subsidies and the assistance given abroad make the backbone as well as the costs of obtaining non-financial assets. They can all, in principle, say that it is precisely areas that cannot be realised in the rest of the year, and therefore there is no need for the mass that was intended to remain neutral at the end of the year for any reason. When increasing revenues, there are possible discussions and questions as to whether the state is socially sensitive, insensitive. I would say that in one thought, in one view, that the total social benefits which, of course, burden the state but whether or not the state can disown its defenders, can be given up by the states of its pensioners and certain other groups of people at risk and thus that these groups that form the basis of this society do not question their survival and functioning. That is why this redistribution has a social component and this social component, along with all these increased expenditure, must be an integral part of state policy. We are confident that the government will have full control by the end of the year and the stories that the deficit will be this size or that much, that such increased expenditure will also account for an increased public debt which could endanger the financial reiting of the Croatian state. We believe that this will certainly not come about and that the possible repayment of the debt even though we have not finally defined here, only when we have discussed it, can the repayment of the debt and do not have to make an increase in the public debt at this point because it is about rebalancing. Therefore, the IMF has certainly agreed to correct such a deficit precisely because the public debt does not have to be threatened and thus the financial reitting of the Croatian state. Therefore, control is fully in hand and we think optimistic that this kind of rebalancing will happen by the end of the year and that through the implementation of the budget we will leave the possibility of instruments that certain positions can be aligned by the end of the year as at the end of what has been done so far. Therefore, the HDZ Club proposes this rebalance that does not endanger either the social, economic, or the development policy of the Croatian state. However, it ensures stability and these groups, these interests as well as price stability, inflation and other movements in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40492	Thank you very much. I am reporting that at 12 and 25, it is time to apply for a ten-minute debate, which is otherwise reported by 70 MPs and MPs, so counting the time still in place by other clubs and these MPs would give me this debate, only that debate without correction or replica or other allegations somewhere ending about one hour in the morning. We'll work without a break and at 3:00 we'll stop this debate and go with the debate and vote on the confidence of the Minister of the Interior. Now there is a correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Prtenjac said on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that the objectives of economic policy were achieved and that they were contained in the new rebalancing. It is incorrect that economic objectives were achieved, that they were achieved, of course, that there would be no serious reason at that time for changing some instruments and for changing fiscal policy. Of course, what caused the change? Well, it's precisely because the financial sector and the real sector are in a growing disproportion. The financial sector does not, of course, find a partner in the real sector in its disproportion. The real sector is increasingly lagging behind, production of industrial declines, investments are falling, and as a result is a clearly strengthened financial sector that performs so-called. non-productive debt and non-developmental consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40494	On behalf of the HSLS, DC and LS, the respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40495	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Although the name of this topic today is on budget rebalancing, we would better describe what we are talking about and what we are discussing if we were to talk about the imbalance of the budget because what is before us is actually a real way to target the imbalance of the budget, which is nothing new in Croatian politics and parliamentary action, and then of course also in the work of the Government. The imbalance between what we can gain, what we achieve as a national wealth over one year, and then, of course, in some period of time in the medium or long term and what we spend, or what expenditures that make up the items of the budget. This is not only a imbalance in the technical, financial sense, in terms of harmonising the items on one side and on the other side of the table, but rather a imbalance between the development opportunities of Croatia, between what we can do as a people, as citizens of one country and what, unfortunately, we can spend, or what we spend from year to year, even though it is not earned, or even though it is not incomed and perhaps we cannot even enter into the income items at all. It is therefore not a matter of discussing both the possibility and the right of the Government and the right of the legislative representative body to access such technical harmonisation once a year and, in a technical financial sense, to rebalance the budget rather than actually, here, the subject in which such imbalance is now, today, in this debate, but also in the time ahead, to prevent, or in what way, more lastingly, balance what we can make, what we can expect and what we expect, but also quite unexpectedly, every year can be spent. Because if we take what we're actually spending in this financial-technical coordination, then we'll see that there are some expected expenditures that have grown over the years, but also unexpected expenditures that we're going to have to settle down on both sides and somewhere on the income side. So I think the word disbalas of the budget would really be more appropriate. What is certainly warning is the fact that in fiscal policy measures, insisting from the beginning and this government on restrictiveness, we are now coming to a greater projection of the budget deficit, so we are increasing it from the original projection of 3.9% of gross domestic product to 4.2% of gross domestic product, which I think is much better than the data-cutting process. We are still discussing or discussing until recently what was actually a fiscal, or budget deficit during the term of the former government. So in my opinion, it is better to admit that we cannot maintain 3.9%, and then, of course, in the short term, we will probably have to admit that in some period of time, we will not get to that extent, or that censorship, which actually means implementing and accepting the master criteria. It is therefore good to admit that the budget deficit is 4.2%. However, what is worrying about this budget deficit is that we are already calculating it, that is, taking into account even though it is clear that it is precisely worrying trends in the change in the structure of the budget. On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance and the Government hereby virtually acknowledges that current revenues, primarily tax revenues, have failed compared to expected, over a billion kuna, that they are so-called. the social contributions of nearly a billion kunas, i.e. some 830.3 million kunas and that in some way the fiscal capacity of this country, that volume is getting smaller and that we remain short of breath. It sounded optimistic to me, and I have to admit that I trusted the Minister of Finance, who is a longtime tax expert and at the head of a tax administration in Croatia, that it will finally reduce tax credit, that we will finally end this tax base, but unfortunately we have to recognise ourselves that we are not an effective state, that the inspection apparatus is still not working and that this is why we will have to include less tax revenues. In itself, perhaps we should not be concerned about that too, when, in fact, in the decline of these fiscal revenues, we could not read any other data, or if we could not interpret some others, we could say, the environmental variables affecting fiscal revenues, above all, the fact that the competitiveness of the Croatian economy has already been seen. Unfortunately, we haven't made our economy more competitive in a micro and macro sense. We're not going to do it now, because unlike last year, when we hoped that we would finally slowly reverse the large external trade imbalance, or the deficit is now showing that our exports are growing again slowly, our imports are growing quite quickly. Therefore, the fact is that, most of all, the reduction of competitiveness, i.e. the fall of Croatia on the level of competitiveness, is influenced by the state of our exports, which unfortunately will not be improved by Mr. Ministers by the fact that we are still reducing the resources that we should spend on increasing exports and increasing competitiveness. No one can explain it further to me, since at least according to what was recorded when the competition fell, the most we have just objected to is the fact that our state support is unproductive. No one can explain to me not because I am a citizen living in the northern part of Croatia, that the subsidies for shipbuilding are something we need and that in such a way we will ensure greater exports, or that we will reverse the negative external trade balance. I think the time has finally come for us to think about this and make this system of state support both transparent and productive and ultimately horizontal support, rather than more vertical support, which is always of course suspected of actually regional support. What is particularly worrying is the fact that Croatia has no new production investments. We can cross over from left to right anyway, we can coordinate in this budget of income and expenditure, but ladies and gentlemen of Croatia can only raise production investments and take a look at the example of neighbouring Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. When I was in this House three years ago when it was passed, when we had the Investment Encouragement Act at first reading, to finally amend the Investment Encouragement Act, precisely because I warned that Serbia-Montenegro would endanger us in terms of competitiveness and attractiveness for foreign investment, I was told that their state of infrastructure would never have a better prerequisite and better assumptions for foreign investment. Ladies and gentlemen Serbia-Montenegro is today achieving a rate of new production and foreign and domestic investments higher than Slovakia has achieved in its time. I ask you where Croatia is? On the finger of one hand you can list new green field investments in production. I'm glad as mayor of Varazdin that on those fingers one-handed four such investments are in Varazdin. But I ask you where they are in other parts of Croatia. We don't just have new production investments. We're not opening new jobs. We do not channel capital flows and fresh money in Croatia. We don't attract new technology. We don't have a new, new howe now. Therefore, Croatia is actually in terms of production investments where it was six or seven years ago. It's not only on the soul of this government, it's on the same page as the ex. Assumptions, of course, are not only in government policy measures but also in local self-government. And that's why I'm surprised, Mr. Minister, that the support of local self-government has fallen. We need to understand that we can have a great president, a democratic one, we can have a polyglot of prime minister, if we won't draw new investments that will have to be placed somewhere in a local self-government that can't get through if there's no infrastructure, so we have to realize that without these new production investments we're actually going to spill from left to right, or from hollow to empty. And that's why I really think it's time we started working very hard on the strategy, attracting new investments, and maybe it'll sound a little sacred, given these government announcements and given the macroeconomic indicators spoken of by an esteemed colleague of the Prtnječa, gentlemen and Mrs. Safe way out for Croatian exports, to raise competitiveness is not tourism. When you look at excise duties and we, Mr. Minister, take that excise duties are going down despite your announcements that over time they will grow and when you look at that great tourism, out of these billions of excise duties don't actually grow in seasons, or that they grow very little in season, then the question is, what is it really effective in Croatian tourism? How much of this money we have effectively managed to get out of tourism, and so I don't get the wrong idea that I have something against investment in tourism. I just want to say that no country in the world has ever lived just three months of wheat and three months of sun, sea and shore. There isn't a country that can live on three months of tides, so whatever foreign exchange inflow it is. And the sooner we figure it out, the sooner we start attracting investment that will last 12 months and bring new values and an additional value of 12 months, the sooner we get out of this imbalance. In my opinion, as a member of the president of a liberal party, for a country that has such high social expenditure, it is unacceptable to have such a low excise duty and to reduce excise duties from year to year. The most liberal and socialist countries in Europe know this well, Scandinavian states have excise duties, which are twice as much as Croatian. And excise duties on alcohol, and excise duties on tobacco products, and excise duties on luxury products. In one Norway, the other car that you have in your house, you have excise duties, or a tax on it 140%. Therefore, not only must we not reduce excise duties, we must increase excise duties because in order to maintain this level of social giving to the citizens of Croatia, we must unfortunately slap on the pocket of those who spend on luxury. And that's something we're going to have to do eventually, and that's why I can't accept the fact that excise duties are shrinking instead of increasing. And when we're at the end of a substitut that will somehow replace these original, lack of original fiscal incomes, we ladies and gentlemen can still, but still take short breaths of dividends, and we can still pay back our debts to sell the shares and the shares of the state in companies, however, we will... our substance, perhaps in two, three years, and then, of course, we'll find ourselves in unprotected grapes, and we'll finally ask the question of how these imbalances patch up, no more by spilling the hollow into empty space than by attracting new production investments and new investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40496	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40497	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. This is where my colleague Chehok used to talk a lot about debalance, about patching holes from hollow to empty, left and right. But that's not true, this is not about any imbalance, it's about the balance in which Mr. Chehok and HSLS balances in this government as he balanced in the past and in each.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40498	Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40499	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40500	Get on with it, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40501	Dear colleague Chehok did not talk about debalancing, he said it would be more appropriate to talk about imbalances than budget rebalancing, which is entirely incorrect. This year's budget has been carefully planned, adopted in this House, and as any good host in this case, Minister Shuker has the right and obligation to analyse and, after some time, in accordance with these analyses, lead to rationalisation. Neither is imbalance nor is imbalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40502	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40503	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of my colleagues, Czechok, that there are no new investments, foreign investments in Croatia, except here we heard in Varazdin, so not to mention, I invite him for a longer walk around the council of Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40504	And the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40505	Thank you very much. I will leave the criticisms that my colleague Chehok made to the government to the Minister, but I will correct his incorrect quote in terms of mentioning the word tourism. According to professional terminology and reality tourism is not a colleague of the Czech Republic, it is a market where various economic activities occur and a country that has the opportunity to organise its production, placement and transport of products and services that it produces is called a rich and happy country. Therefore, we have opportunities that others do not have in the domestic market to sell to foreigners goods, products. Unfortunately, the problem is that we do not produce and strengthen production potentials, but unfortunately we import, borrow and then sell to foreigners and thus double the effect of tourism or so on. The invisible exporter, and tourism is everywhere in the world, we don't achieve that function. Therefore, you have found completely wrong that tourism is not the strategic commitment of Croatia, it may not be yours, but the party to which I belong is certain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40506	Thank you. Did I see that, pal Chehok, you're a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40507	Mr. President, so everyone practically hurt Article 209 because they weren't correcting what I said, first of all, Mrs. Ingrid, I have to say that I was talking about imbalances, not debalance, which is different. Secondly, my party does not participate in any balance, we did when we saw that your SDP government will not launch Croatia as unfortunately it has not yet and this one we have gone out of. So, secondly, Secondly, I have to tell Mr. Markovanovic that I didn't say that they were only in Varazdin, but I said that on the fingers of one hand and there are four of them, so there's room for St. Sunday too. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, according to the MPs.]] And thirdly, I must say to Mr Markov that I said that tourism is a strategic commitment but that I am convinced that we will not live from three months of tourism activity, i.e. the tourist market, and that we should therefore have other sources of income. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40508	Comrade Chehok, these are not injuries to the Rules of Procedure that you have reported, that is, they are not and do not teach me when it is clear to everyone that this is a controversy with the opinion and views of the representatives! Then don't go under, gentleness is my trait, colleague Tomcic, and then I have to be gentle. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40509	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The budgetary debate or amendments to the implementation of the budget on its rebalancing can probably be accessed on at least two sides or in two possible ways. One is to discuss positions and items, those that have been reduced, those that have been increased, those that remain the same, and the other is of course by observing, evaluating and evaluating the budget we actually see and trying to see where we are as a state and where we are as a nation? I'm afraid this rebalancing calculation once again shows that we have an overpriced and inefficient state. Expensive because of the fact that, and what is set aside for the social welfare and what is set out for pensions and what is set aside for the widest of other givings associated with refugee, exile, wartime victims in general shows that, in fact, in some sense, it is neither in the development function nor in the job creation function, but simply in the function of retaining a state in which the state does not produce. I will take, for example, what the prime minister had in his speech when he mentioned demographic restoration. Once again from this pay phone, as has been said for many years so far, this budget is being taken into account, that is, the rebalancing of, the need for demographic renewal. And demographic restoration is understood in a very strict sense of the word, which is as many births and as many births as possible. Or as many as possible who will spend as much time as possible at home, raise, and care for their children. And these are very few in every modern society. And especially in societies such as Croatia where the work has to be done today for 16 hours in order to maintain the family. An elemental family community. And in that sense, I would like to say this: it is good to call on the elements of the social state, to call on the elements of demographic renewal, but it is quite certain that if we continue this way, we will ultimately, when the line is drawn, have a difficult imbalance in this area. And that's because they're really not even social issues, and it's not like that anywhere. In our age, it takes more than 10 years, which is that social peace, social revaluations are bought in a way that does not produce in any way, does not affect, does not contribute to job creation or production. There's no such thing. Thus in no way is any country imagined, nor is it the most cruel one in the market sense. And we continue to retain that kind of policy and that kind of understanding of social policy, that kind of understanding of social care, and it simply cannot be good or can bring good results. And in that sense, we will remain permanently in the sphere of what is called an overpriced state. The number of unemployed, the number of pensioners in this country with such production and working conditions simply cannot be supported. And at the same time with this many separations, it's not in any way possible to contribute to making things happen. I would just like to cite an example that is closer to what is the area of my representative's term of office. We have spent as a country since 1992 on different forms of care for exiles and refugees, returnees of the 26 billion kuna. From immediate care to home restoration infrastructure and everything that's involved. 26 million kunas, billions of kunas. 26 billion we hear that the road from Zagreb to Split cost 17 billion or 16. How long could this country have made a road? How much could this country do in this sense to launch its own production potential? And what's most tragic is we say, "Well, we couldn't control it because we had a war we didn't want, but on the other hand, 26 billion kuna stands today. Because these people have no right to assume that they live in the environments they returned to or should return to. These environments, unfortunately, are not revived in a way that would guarantee that these 26 billion kunas can be regarded as something that can get the country out of its state. Mr. Minister, I highly appreciate the effort to restructure this budget for the next 6 months, but as it is possible for those little 45, 44 million kunas, kunas that were designed to develop these areas and encourage the development of these areas to disappear and to reduce that. And stay at zero. In other words, I think that neither restoration nor return nor any aspect of what was one of the central and still represents the central state elements of state policy will be able to bring their results unless they are followed by development programmes. Unfortunately, in this budget, we don't see them and they're gone. And that is a significant or large part of Croatia. If we look only at Lika-Senj County as a spatial one of the largest if not the largest then we will see that apart from Gospić who has experienced some kind of consolidation, some kind of swing all other areas are either stagnating or not experiencing any momentum. So without such a worry, I don't think things can look good. And on the other hand, as a representative who supports this government, you can't get the impression that we have some items within this budget that I'm not sure how and how rational, serious and just is spent. Within the Ministry of the Sea, tourism and others, we have the Republic Fund "King Zvonimir", which receives approximately 200 million kuna each year for care, direct care for exiles. In addition to Sisak, there is a refugee village that has an average of between 100 and 130 refugees, returnees, people who come and are held there for an average of six to seven years. If it is, I don't have the exact data, I only have possible approximation. If the cost of one such person is 100 kuna per day with electricity, water, heating, maintenance, food etc. And if that's 100 between 130, then we can come very easily if we could make houses for these people, we could build apartments, we could know why that money is being spent, and this is how we really don't know. They're still there. Their problem hasn't been solved. Our state problem hasn't been solved. And our state money is spent on what? This House, Mr. President, should have had at least one member in the board of directors of that same fund a long time ago, we don't know if he has one. Mr. Minister, allow me when it comes to your alleged increase in tax revenue in two years by approximately 15% or about 11 billion kuna, it is an increase and you have set off as one of your key messages in your mandate, and that is something that really represented today, and today, it represents the random need of the government, which is the efficiency of the state in tax collection. Unfortunately, it unfortunately achieves a result that cannot be ignored, cannot be seen, but is not enough. It is not enough because we still have a strong grey economy in different directions than how it is registered or not reported by those employed to how the amounts of their income are reported, i.e. their salaries and contributions to be paid, and of course to the facts that I have heard here now about how subsidies should be abolished, for example. for green or blue oil because many of these people don't report how much they actually get. Elimination of subsidies because we have an inefficient administration, an inefficient state that is unable to determine how the production really takes place, that is unfair. It is unfair to the needs of people in this regard, especially those who truly have their own needs for the state, that is, their obligations in a valid manner and in that sense we think that neither this budget nor any future budget will have their full realization nor their full support unless its filling and the way it is charged is ensured in accordance with what the state needs to provide, and that is the efficiency in tax policy as of course necessary efficiency in the legal and police policy which, unfortunately, we do not see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40510	Thank you very much. Dear representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the HNS PGS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40511	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I'm a little surprised by some kind of revision that prevailed in the discussion of budget rebalancing and the absence of life-allertity in view of the dramaticity of the data that has been presented not only in the rebalancing itself but especially in those relating to the macroeconomic picture of Croatia which is the context in which this rebalancing is taking place. Perhaps this kind of oppression or absence of allergy is the result of the facts of our earlier conflicts in today's session regarding the property and lack of quorum and forsaking sorry to say so, Mr. President, forsaking the vote of the agenda when it could have been agreed on normally. In any case, there must be an explanation, because this budget rebalance is the only positive thing to say about it is that it is absolutely consistent with the budget itself. Namely, as the budget is underdeveloped, as it was not seen from the budget and we said then, where it really wants to go, which is the economic objectives, which are the instruments of economic development of Croatia, in which Croatia will develop, in which way it will develop, which are its priorities. I think it's clear from this rebalancing, too, that there's no economic policy, that there's no idea where this government goes economically and what its priorities are and what it wants. Looking at the context of the macroeconomic picture in which this budget is brought, it is even more dramaticly obvious. The first and basic characteristics of this rebalancing, which was somewhat the characteristics of the budget but in the rebalancing, are now even more directly seen, is the reduction of capital investments, so development components and the increase in consumption. So hold the water until the masters leave more or less. The charge of the budget failed, contrary to what was said at the beginning, and the opposite of what was said when the country's leadership took over that it would even decrease VAT from 22% to 20% because it would increase efficiency in filling the budget, just the opposite as seen in this. But most dramaticly, it seems to me to be a macroeconomic picture, and it really should ring the alarm, and it's a really serious warning that we're going towards an economically at least for us a very dangerous situation, and I'm going to illustrate that by combining our data over the years and on the other hand our data with countries that we can compare with. The rate of GDP growth for the first three months, but at an annual level but shown for the first three months of this year is 1.8%. That's a terrible piece of information. That's the crash data. If you compare it especially earlier in the year, then let's compare it. For the first quarter of 2001, GDP is growing at 4%. For the first quarter of 2002, 4.3% is growing, so the same three months that increase 1.8 this year. In 2003 it increased by 4.9%, in 2004 it increased by 4.2% in the first three months, all of these data did not apply back then to the whole year, but to the first three months. So in 2004, 4.2 and 2005 we grow 1.8% for the same first three months. That's what I'd say is the most dramatic data of all when we compare ourselves with ourselves, it's practically stopping the national economy, it's growing in the gray economy, corruption is falling employment, which I'll come back to later, so all the other indicators are, in principle, increasing, trying to see what the situation is with those countries, with those environments that we can compare to, or where we want to go. Two weeks ago, in The Economist magazine, an article appeared in the British economic magazine that looks at the growth rates and compares the growth rates between the old members, so 15th so on. the old members of the European Union, and 10 new members of which 8 are from Eastern Europe, or Central Europe, transition countries 8 are transition countries. What the rate of growth looks like. The old members of the European Union, therefore countries that are close to maximising their potential and capacity, are growing on average at 15 per cent at 2.3 and are on the rise since 2003 4th, however, countries with which we could and should compare, these are transition countries on average growing 5.5 per cent. So our 1.8 of these 10 countries are growing 5.5 percent on average. Countries that have not entered the European Union but are looking to say so across the board, are about to enter and are absolutely in the next decade of the country that is relevant and interesting to us, such as Ukraine with 50 million inhabitants, growing at a rate of 12.5% of GDP. They calculated that Latvia, which grows at an 8% rate compared to which it currently has the lowest wages in the European Union, compared to Germany which is one of the weakest and is growing at a rate of 1.6%, if it continued, when these trends continued Germany's growth rate would not increase, Latvia would not fall but would remain to 8% that Latvia should, which grows 8% not 1.8, Latvia should reach German income by 2032. So, in 2032, the Latvians would have at the rate of 8% growth to keep Germany as low as it has achieved German income today. I hope none of you colleagues and colleagues here in the hall will be angry but practically everyone unless some young man is hiding somewhere, here's a colleague here, practically none of us in 2032 are likely to be among the living anymore. Maybe you do, too. In 30 years, according to this, which is an 8% growth rate, not 1.8. So we're absolutely in an alarming situation, with indicators like this, we don't have a de facto of course going back, not making progress and catching a step, but we're de facto turning back. This is all in a situation where we are at the level of not old members of the European Union but at the level of three quarters of the use of our 1990 potential. So we're on to what we did and had and we could 15 years ago. And we're growing from a rate of 1.8. That information I think we all need to be concerned, as I often say your government but our country, but that's the information that's absolutely alarming for this country, we've been getting into controversy when the growth rates were below 4%, when they were projected at 3.5, at 3.7 now the fact that where we've been everywhere in the past years on 4 or above 4, between 4 and 4.9 we're today for a comparable period of 1.8. It takes place at all, of course it reflects among other things on unemployment. From 2002 to 2004, unemployment, according to the Croatian Statistics Institute, has been steadily dropping, and unemployment is growing again from 2004 to 2005 as follows. For January 2000 for February 4000, for March 4000, for April 4000, and for May 3000. So, comparing the same rate with the same month with the same month, last year and this year unemployment is growing, the end of this growth rate is not unusual and it is nothing surprising and we should start to think of something that will work in the economy, they even gave the World Bank, which is extremely conservative and registers that we are under investment. So the first development moment that disappeared from the budget and out of this rebalancing completely, disappeared, and the complete orientation to consumption, of course, then has these controversies. And now for an illustration to look at something of an example, I, of course, cite an example that is close to me but not only because it is close to me, but also to what the HNS and the PGS consider in their programmes and stress that one of the main instruments of development and empowerment of countries such as Croatia, so with great potential, is a small one at the edge of the European Union is education. Let's look at what's going on in that education, a few concrete examples in this rebalancing. The bigger it gets, the bigger it gets, the bigger it gets. Promotion and information, on the item of the Ministry itself, materials of raw materials, intellectual and personal services of the national team on the items, the Ministry itself. As it decreases, encouraging the program of work to gifted students at a level of 33% planned. Encouraging extracurricular activities at 60 and 59%, respectively, planned. The provision of school libraries with mandatory booklets and professional literature zero, 6 million converted to zero. Center for the external evaluation of education at 41%. Development of curriculum model for secondary schools at 30% level. Making pedagogical standards and regulations at 1.3% level. New jobs in the higher school system 7.9% of what was planned. My colleagues and colleagues, the Bologna Process, are one of the key instruments teachers. One of the key instruments is to break this situation where you have 100, 200, 300 and more in some colleges of teachers. It can't be done. We're reducing from what was planned for new jobs in the higher education system to just below 8%, to 7.9%. Let me get this straight. This rebalance shows an undeveloped orientation. It shows to a large extent what the next budget will be. If we add to this the fact that, of course, it is not surprising in this context that competitiveness falls in contrast to, say, the new 10 members of the European Union that are growing there, the worse positions on the scale of corrupt countries and the fact that, with all that we have seen here, of course, there is no including the hidden debt, which is that the re-payment by the country that has been reduced to 60 days is increasing and approaching the figure of 300 days. Under these conditions, colleagues and colleagues, HNS PGS will not support budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40512	Thank you very much. ... the budget in order to be 119 years old, and given the development of medicine and without the stressful trend of the situation, we will probably both experience many others. [[You don't understand.]] We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40513	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so here are several times a colleague has been incorrectly instructed that we are lag behind. I would recommend to my colleague, and based on talks with a number of our people working at the Romanian and Bulgarian representative offices to take a little walk there, they will see who is lagging behind and who is moving forward. Otherwise optimistically, we are very close to Germany, so that means that maybe with 1.8 they would have met 1.6 before 32 years of Latvia and Germany. Thanks for the smile.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40514	Thank you. Second correction, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40515	Thank you, Mr. President. Representative Pusic said the government is giving up capital investments. That's not true. The 2005 budget planned to increase capital expenditure by 50% compared to 2004. That was 800 million kuna. Since some projects will not be able to be completed during this year, an investment reduction of 295 million has been proposed. So there's 500 million left for capital expenditure. I think it's a better way to use these funds rationally this year, better than to pay for advances that will not be completed this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40516	Thank you. And a third, respected representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Pusic said that this government has no idea or economic policy, that we are going back on unemployment, etc. I'm correcting those exact allegations. In the first five months of this year, growth in industrial production was 3.2% compared to 2003 to 2004. 6.5 grand is less unemployment. Also, 13% were less unemployed compared to 2003 to 2005 and the funds for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports compared to 2003 to 2005 increased by a total of 146 million or 14.74%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40518	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40519	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not support the 2005 Rebalance budget. In fact, the SDP club estimates that the 2005 budget rebalance deserves political assessments. 2005 is the year in which the Croatian government acts completely on its own after a year and a half of justice for the results in 2004 where it could be called to a failed government, failed by definition of the Croatian government, but in 2005 it is indeed budgetary, and I would say after a year of stalking and indeed a government year. And that's why, on behalf of the SDP club, firstly, the government's assessment of the document we received. We estimate by assessing the budget of the Republic of Croatia that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is without any desire for development, there is no vision or ability to create economic growth. The SDP club estimates that the government cannot even establish income control mechanisms and has surrendered to battle with the gray economy. We are assessing a government that, in the energy sector, in the infrastructure sector and in other state-owned companies, wastes not only the extended reproductions they make but also free reproductions and endangers further development of the energy and infrastructure sector, but what is the worst of this spending for the sake of its mere living and uncontrollable consumption in the state budget. The SDP estimates members of the government who may have been able to justify their predecessors' failures in 2004, but in 2005, it does indeed assess them with poor results and their contribution to poor or economic stagnation and unfortunately incompetence of the Republic of Croatia and the economy of the Republic of Croatia. We consider the government to have capitulated in the battle with reforms, unfortunately and in savings on the expenditure side of the budget, and only without the power to see the spending of destroying taxpayers' funds, especially those aimed at science, protection of the environment, development, health and social, but unfortunately also the resources of taxpayers to restructure the Croatian economy, and for a good part in the ownership of the Croatian state, and in particular the destruction of the funds needed for the agriculture sector for competitiveness in the European market. What the SDP also says is that the government also focused its main objective of its economic action for 2004 and 2005 on achieving a low budget deficit rate. And what can we determine? Nor did it succeed in 2004 and even less succeeds in 2005, so it re-engages budget deficits. And thus, given that the structure of the deficit is consumption, and not development has also been given the first hint of a negative "rejection" as the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the SDP assesses the basis of this Budget that poor government results, bad news for both economics and citizens, and that they can be manifested by stopping development, dropping growth rates, indifference, incompetence, unemployment, falling "rejection", the imperviousness of our citizens' youth, and, unfortunately, more and more recently, the lack of and protection of the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. And now let me, on behalf of the Club, try to partially explain all these assessments that we have given on the basis of one of the important documents for the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government states that the main reasons for the rebalancing are the slow growth of economic activity and changes in the structure of expenditure. We add in the SDP and another reason why it went with the 2000 Budget is gone. Local elections are over. The local election's over. It is time to redistribute, to delete promises for small investments in health care, because we no longer have local choices, and at the same time to give real expenditures, such as salaries, pensions, such as social problems, such as defenders. Therefore, this seems to be at least in that expenditure side the fundamental reason for this change in the structure of expenditure. And now we return to slower growth in economic activity. Indeed, if the government wrote it, and she wrote it, then it would take a hundred pages of the elaborate, and what to do to change it. And we listen to both the prime minister and the minister this morning that it's not so bad because you already see it in the fourth and fifth months, and even in the sixth, we have better results. We have better results. And it's obvious we're having a growth problem. As indicated in the documents that the reason for lower growth rates is a total slowdown in investment consumption. So there's no investment, there's no state investment. Therefore, in one Germany it may be a sign to the government that we are going with new investments, we are going with a larger deficit because what is important to us is investment in the sign and growth of the economy and I would say solving internal problems in the budget. Sign and new jobs, but in this government, we don't think that. In fact, we're not even entering the structure, and why maybe in the fourth and fifth places it's growing, the rate of growth is growing, and we're going to see that when we look a little bit better, the stock is growing. Stocks are growing. And what does stock growth mean? Well, more indifference in Croatia. Yeah, we're stockpiling because still someone invested, no further investments, no market. We're weak in competition on the outside. We work for supplies. We are creating a new indifference in Croatia. Yeah, we're not talking about these elements today. Neither the introductions want to talk about it nor can we seriously open the subject because we have no partners to talk about. Therefore, by assessing these reasons for the rebalancing of the SDP Club, the government finds alarmingly that the reasons and that the government has not offered through this rebalancing any solutions to how do these negative trends in the macro-economics resolve and stop? And that's why we leave it to the government to really analyse macroeconomic indicators trying to prepare a serious debate about what to do in the fall? Let's get back to the rebalancing itself. And then we come to two important areas that change in this rebalancing. A plan of revenue and a plan of expenditure. What about the income plan? We keep talking and hearing that there are revenues in 2005. 11 billion more than 2003. We're trying to say it's 14, 15% higher. And we want to say that this is a contribution from the well-organised Ministry of Finance, that it is a contribution from the state administration. That's not true. Add up the rate of growth in 2004, the rate of growth in 2005. Add inflation to that in 2004, 2005. Calculate the year-to-year yield and you will see that it is nothing more than the continuation of the 2003 income. Except for one difference that we're wasting the battery. We're wasting our battery. Because spending dividends is spending money on extended reproduction, and some even basic reproduction. Therefore, these revenues are not sufficient. And we won't plant that ugly debate when we didn't understand that two index problems a lower VAT rate would endanger the Croatian budget. That's just political promises. That these are irresponsible statements even after the elections have been made. And after the election's over. Yeah. Today we see that at 22% of VAT revenues are not realised. They don't come true. And imagine that we've reduced two index points. The same thing as we've reduced the rate from 0.5 to 0.0 when we're talking about alcohol spills in traffic. It's not just the VAT. And excises are a problem. It is evident that the reduction in economic activity carries its negative points. But I'd say there's another problem. All last year, we've been arguing about income, which means tax policy, where we're not just gonna threaten the financial police? What does it mean for taxpayers to organise themselves and monitor the grey economy and contribute to the payment of regular commitments? No, I don't. This government is against it. She thinks only a beating can solve the issue of charging the budget. Only a beating can be arranged to deal with the gray economy. And he does not realize that these are world experiences where a far greater contribution is exactly the stimulation of taxpayers to regularly pay taxes and personal benefits. Obviously, that mistake in politics especially the Ministry and the Minister himself, the Ministry of Finance, is something that makes us less successful. And we won't improve them in the future because we accept them with this kind of work. Just two stories about dividends. Instead of building hydroelectric power plants, we'll be taking money from HEP. We'll get the money from HT. We'll take the money from Croatia's insurance. We'll take money from who else. All companies that are important to open the investment market which is the reason for the decrease in activity we order where the state is we need money to spend. Not for development. And that's something we can't accept. And that's the most dangerous item that can happen. We could have understood. In 2004, there was no time for privatisation policy, so we didn't opt for privatisation, so we spent 2 billion money that could go to the development of the IT sector and telecommunications businesses. But no, no. In 2005 a billion and 500 million will go from dividends to consumption development. And of course that's the reason for this low growth rate and the problem of production for the market. There's only a few words left about the expenses themselves. What about expenses? It's hard to say why six months ago we didn't get the exact details of the pay plan and the actual salary expenditure, why we didn't get the actual pension expenses, the real social needs expenditure, why we didn't get the real data on the defenders and the needs of the defenders. And of course, if all that was already done by the SDP Club that it was and why we didn't now insert what we've been through our declaration in NOB and looking for. Returning part of what belongs to the NOR fighters. Why isn't that properly valorized? What reason is that? Ignorance, intricacies. Or vice versa, we didn't want to show the right numbers at the time so that we could win the voters in the local elections with the investments we're taking down now. That's what we're curious about why we planned this wrong. What we want to say as the SDP Club is it's obvious that we're going to be able to have fewer expenses that are nothing more than spending. We won't be able to, but unfortunately if our budget goes to the greatest extent for the needs of the citizens, we are at risk of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, we are not offering any solution to the Croatian economy. And that's why the SDP Club thinks it's impossible just to invest in this consumption. We had to fight through both the budget and the budget rebalance to ensure incentives. We lack money and are reducing it to restructure Croatia's economy. We didn't finish it. Unfortunately, there's still big owners in that society. And we also didn't provide money for restructuring or agricultural reform. Here, since I've lost more time to argue perhaps very clearly tell the SDP Club doesn't think that it's either tragedy or Argentina that there are unresolved problems. That is what irresponsible opposition is saying, but we believe that if the government does not take its rebalancing seriously, they will not be able to solve our problems in quality. He won't be able to change these themes. The SDP club expects it from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40520	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'd like to report for Mr. Linic's correction. Mr. Representative, you said in your debate that this government has lost every race in the development of the economy and has given in to the gray economy. That's just not true. I will tell you the accuracy and continue in my entire debate you have prepared such a dramatic picture of the Croatian economy that you are, in fact, scaring the Croatian public with your statements. I will only tell you one part of the accuracy and how the economic situation is in Croatia. The latest macro-economic indicators suggest Croatia's recovery from the first quarter of the current year. The average increase in industrial production in April and May was 7.3% while real retail turnover recorded an annual growth rate of 4.3% during the same period. Well, that's right, and it's tearing down your black forecasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40522	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Linic said that this government is doing the wrong thing, he does not know, helplessly mentioning the resources for science, so I would correct in that part of my fellow MPs because for science in the ministry this year, there was an increase in funds of 243 million kuna or 2.81 and that but a respected colleague forgot that he was on a regress from 2001 where he was still paid in a large part of the former government's unpaid commitment and that by the judicial means of that lawsuit that was going to cost 230 million kuna and that the regular route would have been 100 million kunas less in that part of the regress. And that's why 150 other high schools are blocked. I would also say in correcting the incorrect assumption that this government has currently 2,000 574 scientific recruits who are in the system and also that the Bologna Process and High School Reform are in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40524	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Shuker. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Therefore, the very interesting observation of the esteemed representative Linic and Vice-President Mrs Pusic, however, is very important that they did not go half way with certain data companies. At the moment when they were told to do so, they gave up the company. However, one very interesting and plastic comparison. Mr. Linic, since he personally called me, I hope you won't mind me speaking to you personally, even though I know it's not convenient since you spoke on behalf of the club. You said that with this budget that is 12 billion higher than the budget that your government had in 2003 was unable to do anything. You claimed that you with a budget of 11 billion smaller and with a deficit of 4.9% were able to do all of this. Now, there's something wrong with that. Or the deficit was what it was. So, she was running a game... The deficit or something is wrong because if you could settle all this with 11 billion smaller budgets and today neither capital investments that are larger nor investments in education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, only the education budget is relative, I have to compromise because you led me to this debate, compared to 2003, higher by a billion and 100 million kuna. And today, less than 15 months with a billion, 100, or to say it with some 17% higher budgets, nothing can be done and with a 17% lower budget could be made. Secondly, I wouldn't want this to turn out to be giving some lessons right now but telling the Croatian public, talking about privatisation revenues and dividend incomes and putting it all in the same basket, I don't think it's right at least for the simple reason that dividend incomes have a direct impact on deficits and privatisation revenues have a direct impact on the way the deficits are financed. I remember the debate in this House in 2002 when we talked about regional development and employment funds, and when we said that all privatisation funds would go to those two funds. We all supported it because these two funds were supposed to be, one was supposed to encourage the development of units of local self-government, create an opportunity for them to be a nuclearus of economic development and to be a nuclearus where these investments we're talking about can be realized. The Development and Employment Fund had another function. The funds from the privatisation of INE did not end up in the two funds, they covered the spending. And I fully understand it from this position as I understand it and then when I spoke as an opposition representative, saying that given the state of the state finances it is impossible to expect that all privatisation funds will go to funds that need to generate growth, economic growth. You can see my debate when I was talking about funds, that's what I'm talking about today. To talk about this government withdrawing funds from Croatia, INE, I have to say here because of the Croatian public that it's a nonsence, it's a lie. It's a lie. We withdrew the dividend last year to cover unpaid bills from the Croatian Railways in 2002 and 2003. As for the income collection organization, that's where I even got my personal pick-up. So I'll just say, I've got the data here in 2002 and it's been accomplished in 2004 and it's planned in 2005. So the incomes from the 2002 tax were 42 billion, the achievement of 2004. 46, the 2005 plan is 50 and between 2003. 44 billion. So when you combine that data, we can talk about successes and failures. The biggest problem, however, is when it comes to the problem of payment of revenues, I had the opportunity to talk to Mr Linic and I was amazed when he told me that with the increase in fuel prices, excise duties were rising. So he wasn't familiar with the technology of excise duty, which means a special tax paid on a fixed unit, a single measure. But today he's the minister of finance in the government says they haven't been able to make a payment. How can you comment on something when you don't even know the technology of something? So that's, that's something that was. And another thing, for you, for information, control and excise charge in this country has been done by the financial police. And we can see how the excise fees were charged until the financial police were abolished. And when the financial police were abolished, then the excise duties were transferred to the customs office with 20 employees, and no one in the past few years has dealt with the strengthening of that service, nor with the supervision of that service, without talking about education or anything like that. And it's about goods that are most suitable and acceptable to the black market. Now the question arises, which was the motive of abolishing the financial police and leaving one very risky area without control and the result of the excise charge when you look at 2002, 03, 04 and 05. Unfortunately, there is one regrettable constant, which is that the plane is. However, certain procedures and co-operation with the customs administration from Slovenia and now Bosnia and Herzegovina will certainly produce some results. We're talking indifference. Look, 31. 12. In 2003, the number of insolvency persons was 21829. The total unpaid claims between those 21829 insolvents were 12 billion and 800 million. You're 31. 5. We have 19,000 and 800 insolvent persons, so 2,000 less. The number of outstanding liabilities between them is 10 billion and 600 million, so two, 10 billion and 600 million means 2 billion and 200 million less. So when we had 2,000 more insolvency persons, when we had 2 billion and more mutual claims, it wasn't liquidity, and today when the number of insolvency persons decreased, when the number of mutual claims decreased, it wasn't liquidity. We have a statement from the governor of the Croatian National Bank that, as far as monetary liquidity is concerned, it is never better in Croatia. That's no argument either. I'm going to give you information as much as he owes the unpaid of outstanding liabilities from the state budget, so no secret, and certainly he won't find anyone 5.6 billion outstanding bills. So, if we exempt from the debt of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which unfortunately since the takeover of your Government in 2000, unfortunately one Croatian constant, at this time no ministry has unsettled obligations of more than 50 million and only four, five ministries with outstanding obligations above 10 million. So we're talking about state budget funds and outstanding accounts, and that's official data. And it's not true that as far as the state budget is concerned are deadlines, not deadlines, but look, just say that there is no liquidity in this country, not to argue with anything, it's normal that it's something that is very acceptable to both the media and everyone and will be very happy to write about it. But let's talk about concrete indicators. It's an investment stalemate. Capital investments in the 2005 budget are higher by nearly a billion kuna than they were in the 2003 budget. So in 2003, this scale of investment offered economic growth, this one does not offer. However, what I said and in my opening part, I will say and now, investment from the budget can no longer be a generator of the importance of economic, significant economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia must create preconditions for more significant investments, both domestic investors and foreign investors. And that is why I did say that the function of that establishment of that Regional Development Fund should have gone in this direction and here if there is no coordination between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government is very difficult to speak because just as local self-government units are nuclearos for economic growth and space where investments and foreign investments can come. And frankly, I really don't understand when we look at the cost structure of this budget what they have to do with local elections. Because if the funds went straight to the units of local self-government, then one would say. However, this is a clear alignment of certain positions and expenditure has not increased. And let me just say, since I haven't looked back on a few clubs. Let me just say to Mr Tadic that as far as the University of Dubrovnik is concerned, the problems are of property law regarding the old hospital in Dubrovnik and that is the problem of relations and universities. And as for the University of Zadar, at this point there are orders for one million kunas and 12 million kunas are secured. However, the comparisons and the comparisons presented by Mrs Pusic were also contained in the presentation of the esteemed representative Linic, but I must say again without any argument of the non-payment story, and I will only read to you one segment from the 2003 report of the state audit, where the planned deficit of the Croatian highways was 5 billion 176 million and not 3 billion 620 million, as approved by the Croatian Parliament, so much about transparency and so much about how they are paid... Thank you very much, sir. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40526	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40527	Two corrections to the incorrect quote, which is that I said that fuel price rise also means a rise in excise duties. Growth in fuel prices means growth in revenue in the budget. For the reason that price increases are higher VAT, and also the addition of excise duties is higher VAT. Therefore, the rise in prices, the rise in the prices of state income, is higher. And by doing so, the government could go to a reduction in the cost of excise duty, as the same revenue would then be realised if the fuel prices hadn't increased. That's one correction. And another correction that I want to say very clearly, perhaps only one piece of the railroad is constantly mentioned, sometimes paid within 60 to 90 days, today the railways owe 1 billion kuna, pay deadlines last 360 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40528	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40529	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect that Mr. Minister has stated that at this point we have fewer insolvency persons because you have made it possible with the changes, it is not true, we have more, but you have allowed these insolvent persons to liquidate such companies and to remain in debt and exploiting workers by not paying them fair and deserved wages, staying in debt to the state and allowing them to form a new company, and for you... you say you have no insolvency persons. There's those insolvents. Secondly, it's not true, you keep showing here that there's only a non-payment story, the state has become the biggest debtor again, look at the statistics. As much as we owe you, you'll be calling the Turks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40530	Minister, I'm begging you. Minister, you didn't get the word I'm begging you from the bench not to throw MPs when they speak. Correction of an incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40531	I am correcting the inaccuracies of Mr. Minister who said that when we talk about indifference we are not making arguments and that we have not argued these thesis it is incorrect that in a few times in this home we have been given an argument for increased indifference, and I will only present one here and that in times of coalition government medicines have been paid within 120 days now we are going to 350 and we are going to 380, and Mr. Minister if I am telling them a lie like you are now showing non-bal communication, so tell all the representatives of the big drug industry who have come forward in Croatia because they can no longer function because you do not carry out their obligations to them for 350 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40532	Thank you. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40533	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I did not report for correction of the incorrect quote, but I would use this opening part of the exposure to say if the dividend paid into the 2004 budget paid the 2003 debts whether debts will now be paid in 2005. This can be seen from the rebalancing proposal. Also, a billion-dollar increase in investment projects and 500 million kunas unfortunately do not give effect because the smaller funds had an effect of 4.3 or 4.5 or 5 and now, unfortunately, neither 3.7. But let me take a look at the budget rebalance itself. It should actually be a realisation of the government's development, social and any other policy for one year within the mandate period, however, this proposal cannot read what the government's policy is because it is satisfied that it is struggling in a frenzy to meet the IMF's public debt and deficit policy. So long and deficits actually become a goal, not a means to boost economic growth, because positive goals do not come true, as this rebalance says, because we do not have a satisfactory economic growth and then neither does income in the budget. Which actually brought down the state budget. For two years now, the Minister of Finance has brought us down to comparison with 2003, "the government's success in reducing external debt and deficits" but by analysing the rebalancing in 2004 and 2005 it is seen that due to insufficiently planned funds, for salaries, pensions, maternity benefits, receiving participants and disabled Homeland War. Justified and logically, the question arises whether this is done, so that at the beginning of the planning of the state budget, at the beginning of the year, the planned smaller deficit is shown. That there is little work to be done on essential issues such as reforms from the state administration, the judiciary, the police military, etc., and economic growth and development programmes, as well as data from the National Competitiveness Council's annual report. It is from these indicators that I doubt this fairy tale statement by the Prime Minister about potentially large foreign investment. What could this be read in the annual report of this Council? That Croatia is at 79th place in the global competitiveness index of 104th country, lagging behind all key indicators of competitiveness and the biggest deterioration in the area of technological development, which then slows down economic growth, at the quality of public institutions, at the stability and degree of corruption. According to the Competitiveness and Growth Index, Croatia fell to 61 in 2004 from 53rd place to 62nd place in 2003 and to 67th place according to the Business Competitiveness Index. So, according to some indicators of competitiveness, it fell from 2 to 21 places. Therefore, without developmental projects in which the state must participate, because it still holds a large part of the profitable economic sector, it is not possible to provide sufficient resources in the state budget for public, social, social needs. So these days, there's the finance minister that made it possible for the IMF, like several government officials, to allow us to increase the deficit. Our deficit stems from excessive consumption compared to economic results, not from investment in development, and in the long term it represents a long-term decrease in revenue in the budget. Analyzing the income we can detect that they are reducing this rebalancing by 790 million kuna and mostly or entirely on tax revenues and that is, tax revenues will be reduced by this rebalancing by as much as a billion and 145 million kuna, most of which relate to VAT revenues. The excise duties are reduced by 680 million kuna, i.e. they increase compared to the 2004 realization by only 3.5%, even less than the growth of the planned socio-gross product. When we analyze this, consider that increased excise duties on tobacco and cars are from 1. Seven. In 2004 they will actually be harvested by tobacco during the whole of 2005 and will be reduced by this rebalancing and revenue by 183 million kuna, for oil derivatives 347 million kuna and left at 2004 level. Where is now the promise of a higher tax charge, of incomes that should not be picked up on the road, and we are already running out of time for both of these governments and us here in Parliament. I am therefore particularly surprised that 35 million funds are abolished which are intended to improve the collection of tax revenues when we have this situation in the budget. But this reduces the social contribution plan by 833 million, related to pension, health and employment. In fact, there is no rationale for this kind of planned reduction, but it is actually that at the beginning of the year, these incomes were too ambitious to plan, or the wage growth that should have been achieved according to such planning. As a result, revenue from assets is increasing by 980 million. A particularly high amount also applies to dividend revenues in 2005. Thus, in 2004, only by withdrawing the dividends, 3.4 billion were made, and that was not the question, what would be the picture of the 2004 budget and deficits, as well as at the end of 2005. The expenditure is already classic that we have the second year in a row, so the rebalancing in 2004 and the redistribution made by the Government in December 2004 increases the expenditure on salaries, pensions, maternity benefits, user receipts, participants and disabled Homeland War. What's shrinking? Material and financial expenses. The question is how much such expenditure has actually been transferred from 2004 to 2005 and what will happen to these expenditures in 2005 and 2006, given that I do not believe such a reduction of material expenditures can occur when we know that they can be quite realistically planned. Subsidies are reduced not only for shipbuilding but also for agriculture. The funds are being reduced to the MORH and the MUP by 3% compared to the start of the planning. There are no new projects in investment projects. It would be interesting to see why there is no, why there is no gasification project, irrigation project, etc. Investment funds for railway infrastructure are being reduced. The recovery funds for the area of special state care for which 49 million kunas were allocated shall be completely deleted. For the municipal infrastructure on the islands, they are reduced by 36%, for the housing of the disabled Homeland War 15 million or 10%. Health care reduces resources, for the needs of social care, and what I actually find unfathomable is why funds for economic growth are being reduced. Therefore, the HBOR funds are being reduced, the Fund for Development and Employment and the Regional Development Fund are being cut by 25% and 25% a year earlier. After these indicators, I find it difficult to understand this fairy tale statement by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. That is why we only have to wait for the next redistribution of the 2005 budget, which I hope will be carried out by the Government because it is proposed by the Law on Budget Implementation with the same explanation of Croatia's successful launch. Of course this is not an acceptable budget rebalancing for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40534	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40535	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The budget is the document from which the government's policy is being read best, and from what I saw in this rebalancing budget, it turns out that a lot of things are too high for this government, so it seems to me that they are above all too high and that is why most of them are taken on their items, people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. In fact, ten items that I found through three or four ministries that have significantly reduced amounts have been reduced to approximately 16.5 million kunas, very large funds for people with special needs, people who need special care for the state and especially for children with behavioral disorders, thus reducing funds. Tomorrow, when we read again in the newspaper an article about what is happening in our homes, we will wonder why this is happening. It's precisely because in this population that can't be saved this time it's actually taken the most. And I have to say that it's a very large amount and that almost all of the items are, there are not a single item left, so a person with disabilities and children with special needs that have not therefore taken down a certain amount. The second thing you can see from this budget rebalancing is that we also have science, education, intelligence, investment in therefore educated people the same thing that is not a priority. In fact, when you read only the budget or part of the Ministry of Science and Education, the only thing you can see is that a lot has been said in the last year and a half and none of it has actually been done. Here's how. For example, it has been said very often by the minister that what he thinks is primarily to make a return or a one-way project. Now, for example, you have the funds that have been taken down, there are 600 thousand akun left. So, since one-way work, there's nothing. There are 25 thousand kunas left to build a pedagogical standard and regulation. If someone thinks that for 25,000 kunas instead of 2 million kunas planned to create a pedagogical standard, then it is indeed an unserious man. So, no pedagogical standard. We're the only country that works at school under ordinary law and we don't have anything that would be clear rules of learning and education for our children. The second, or third, revision of existing new programmes in the secondary education system is about curricular reform, new plans and programmes for which funds have also been downloaded. So none of that. The arrangement of the Centre for External Education is primarily about the centre that should be concerned about the implementation of the state graduation project that we discussed here some two weeks ago, and the funds are also literally halved. Therefore, a project of State Prosecution was also asked. Not to say that encouraging programs for gifted students and students have been significantly reduced and around 90% of the funding from these items has been taken, vocational schools have been completely devastated in this budget, all of their resources are quite taken away, not to say that there are no more funds. So zero kuna for learning another foreign language in elementary schools. So much for investing in our future generations. And, well, it doesn't have any sports investments either, so it's supposed to be inside the school, so when we talk about addiction, then we call for it. Here, now in this budget there is no means to do so. Someone here mentioned a Bologna process. Well, gentlemen, my dear, look at the budget. Mr. Minister, when he came to the ministerial chair, obviously had no idea about the Bologna process, so he planned four million kuna funds just now with rebalancing. So neither in 2004 nor in 2005 there is a Bologna process. Only now is this rebalance of 4 million kuna put into this budget. I have to touch the Ministry of Health and Social Care, for example, for which it was really difficult to hear from the public that funds were taken from that resort, so for example health care was taken with considerable resources. I think it went pretty well to the harm of our citizens because for these funds that are exclusively removed from medical equipment and laboratory equipment, a lot of equipment could be purchased and that is precisely in those parts of health care that are very deficiting. Therefore, for those funds directed elsewhere, our citizens will certainly continue to wait for months to search and have very unquality health care. And on the other hand, I have to admit that it was also very worrying to see in this budget rebalancing that the funds were removed or significantly reduced to combating malignancies but also to protect young people's health, therefore, are reproductive health. So much for our orientation, or governmental determination in this budget rebalancing, as important to them as it is to them, how important it is to protect the health of our young people, but also to ensure overall prevention of malignancies. So here we are going back a few steps back that we are not saying that the funds for the transplant are also important reductions and that we are from a country that came from a country that came to a golden middle of European countries by the number of transplants now again two steps back and we are again somewhere in the last place in which we countries, which, therefore, we want to be in the European Union tomorrow. And finally, social care, last time there was a budget of 17 I think the welfare center had run out of funds, they were simply removed from the previous year. Now we have a significant reduction in several of the centers that are left here, I think two are critical, which is Sisak and Split. Absolutely inadmissible reduction and intruding into the social care centre, because social care centres are in rather poor conditions when it comes to their working conditions, and on the other hand, there is an increasing shortage of people, therefore, of professional employees. This is where you get, for example. reduce funds almost 90% for education and professional training of social care workers, therefore, there is no additional investment in existing staff in social care centres, let alone an item that would employ new experts in social care centres. So when there's a carnage on the street that someone kills their entire family, or when it happens that we have abused children in our family, then we wonder how it could have happened with us. So it could have happened just like this that in social care centres, existing personnel simply can't take this much pressure on themselves anymore, and that's why they need help, and unfortunately through this budget they won't get through. On the other hand, mental health experts are completely neglected in schools. What the former coalition government had had was one item in which mental health experts were hired in primary and secondary schools, the item of the HDZ's coming to power was completely removed from the budget. There are no clinical psychologists in the health care system and unfortunately there are no experts enough in welfare centres. In all these savings, I'd just like to tell you, I haven't been able to get as much data as we have. centers that accommodate children with developmental difficulties. However, you have 11 homes in Croatia for carefree children. So children who live with quite certainly much less difficulty than they are in these other homes. If you could just hire a single psychologist in those institutions, which is absolutely insufficient, you'd need about a million kunas somewhere. These funds are not available here, so I cannot ensure that these children are provided at least minimal support to get out of these homes with as little trauma as possible and to be as healthy and better citizens of this country as possible. So it's something that's a very big social problem. Not to mention that you have homes where children are at a very small age, therefore, delinquents with 10 or 15 criminal charges where about 100 protégés have one or two psychologists, absolutely insufficient and let's not be surprised that every little one in the public will certainly open stories about what's going on in these homes. These people who work with such children certainly on this number, with such a small number of mental health professionals cannot have good working conditions and cannot have good results and are primarily deprived children. Therefore, for such budget rebalancing, I cannot raise my hand because this budget rebalance was made precisely at the expense of those categories where this should least be spared.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40536	Thank you. We have a few corrections to an incorrect quote. First distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of the whole series of incorrect allegations presented by my colleague Opačić, I want to correct two, and I want to correct those relating to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. With the rebalancing this ministry has received 243 million kuna more. Yeah, it's inconclusive that you said what came off of those potential school reform activities. However, you forgot that 238 million kunas were to be compensated to teachers under their 2001 law for the regress. Also, there is a return in progress and 108 million kunas have returned to teachers, another problem of two-way work in schools, so they have returned to teachers' rights, the amount of salaries has been increased. And you know why? It was precisely because we entered a reform of education from which new experts were to be employed in vocational schools, professional school associates, that additional teachers of foreign languages should be hired, so all this was done for the purpose of reforming education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40538	Thank you. I ask the MPs not to use the right to argue when correcting an incorrect assumption. We've got a lot of reports. Correction of the incorrect quote Mirjana, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In her debate, counterpart Opačić pointed out that this budget reduces investment in the most sensitive population, and these are disabled children. And I would just like to deny it in a way that only through the care of physically and mentally damaged children and children and youth with behavioral disorders are reduced investments precisely because the low percentage of executions in those items for the first 6 months of 2005 and there are also secured funds in the ministry's own incomes for possible costs beyond the plan. Also in improving reproductive health, the creation of an action plan is under way for which the planning of the means to achieve this activity is planned. Also, monitoring children's health, at risk, is a reduction due to a low percentage of spending in the first half of 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40540	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40541	Dear Mr. Vice President, here is reading the budget rebalancing in its own way the distinguished representative, among other things, incorrectly stated the following: I quote, "A project of state graduation has been asked.", completed the quote, commenting on the items of the resolution ministry. So just for the sake of the public it is necessary to state and so read in relation to its debate and other relevant points of this rebalancing, this claim is absolutely not correct, nor does this rebalancing in any way support this claim of doubt even a project of state graduation that should begin for the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40542	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40543	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that childcare and youth with behavioral disorders will be compromised, a small inventory item and a 580,000 car tire per year has been reduced, and that's all that's been done in that. Therefore, children will not be cut off in their care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40544	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. She said that children cannot be provided with funds in social care. A part of his fellow Turkish said already, and Mr. Minister told this respected House that the Honorable House had raised 30 million credits for social care reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40546	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40547	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Well here we have heard that the funds in the positions of the Ministry of Health and Social Care have been reduced and these are particularly apostrophyd children with behavioral disorders, that is, PUP and disabled, or users of services. When you look here at this rebalancing calculation then you can see that he is in, as far as the Ministry of Health and Social Care is concerned, not a single right for any of the users is either reduced or abolished. This rebalancing has reduced some of the funds that were intended for either office material or were intended for equipment or was intended to end some investments which have proved to be simply using the dynamics of obtaining local and various permits and problems that arise on the ground that it will not be able to end by this end of the calendar year, since the rebalancing funds must be spent from the budget. They can't be used over in 2006. That's why we've made it clear with this indication that nothing is stopping, nor is it stopping there, but it's simply going to be transferred to 2006 or if there's something that's going to be necessary to make up for, we have our own own resources from our own incomes that can be transferred to the next calendar year, unlike these funds that I can't. As far as employment is concerned, the fact is that here to see one item where it says that something has been downloaded because, in that position up to 1.7, it simply couldn't be realized that as many people as it was planned. And I'll tell you why? Everyone would get a job in the city of Zagreb. We'd all get jobs in big cities. But a defectologist or psychologist get where we need it is very difficult. And it's going to be even harder over time, especially if we see what kind of house we're put in. So here I can responsibly argue from 2003, unlike in 2003, in this system of health and social care and social care, there are approximately 300 professionals missing. I have to say that since 2003, a year and a half, in fact a year and a half in this system, more than a hundred people have been employed in homes, which are in welfare centres. So since 2003, it's been significantly improved. In the first version of 37, in the second 42, then 25. There are now 8 competitions, 8 human-receiving contests. Therefore, no law has been abolished. No one is prevented from hiring and everything that could not be achieved now because of the calendar year will be achieved in the 2006 budget because the World Bank's social security loan of EUR 31 million and $2 million is coming with a donation from Sweden. That's what he's going to do. There will be considerable investment from that. So we made sure we didn't lose the money. No rights have been abolished, and no protégé has been abolished in anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40548	Correction of an incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40549	So I'm correcting Mrs Nikolic's incorrect quote that she said the funds were being downloaded on certain investments. I wasn't into investment. I wasn't into buildings. I've been doing projects. So this is how the funds were removed. Affirmation of rights and promotion of policy for people with disabilities. Secondly, support for the social... families, young, children and persons with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Third, education and education of children with developmental difficulties. Fourth, education and education of students with developmental difficulties. And fifth, care for physically and mentally damaged children. Most of these funds are... /The speech room is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40550	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40551	Well, it's hard to fix anything that's wrong. That key was done by a colleague named Opacic. It is incorrectly almost everything that Mrs. Dorica Nikolic said. Let's just look, I'll just have this one other part. Let's look at all those programs that apply to fighting addiction. Well, it's incorrect that they didn't... [[Correct, correct. I beg you to correct the incorrect quote.]] /The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40552	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. During today's establishment of the agenda and session of the Parliament, MP Kapraljevic asked for the word to apply the rights set out in Articles 225 and 230. Rules of Procedure. Since the President of the Parliament did not give him the opportunity to explain why he wanted to report, and under my authority as president of the Club, he wanted to request a re-election on the points
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40554	You can't respect it, you can't talk about this item on the agenda about something that was in the previous agenda points. If you don't If you don't have anything to say [[I can, Mr. Vice President. I can, I can.]] That, that has nothing to do with, Your Honor, Agent Lesar. [[Agreement: I request the meeting of the Constitutional Committee and the basis of the phonogram to determine whether the right of MP Kapraljevic has been violated]] You answered on behalf of the club and I gave you my word and you said something that had nothing to do with this agenda point. [[/Intruder: Yes?]] You are now seeking the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, you have the right to do so and you will get it. If you don't have anything on this agenda point, I'm asking you to sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40555	I couldn't, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40556	But you can't tell the Rules of Procedure something that was before
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40557	In order to make a request for a committee meeting, I had to turn to you, didn't I?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40558	We've got it covered. Thank you. ... You request the opinion of the Constitution Committee, the political system [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Ask for it. I don't need you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik. Miroslav Korenik, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I must say that I, like other members of the SDP Club, will not give my vote for the rebalancing of the budget and I will say a few reasons why it is so. When we look at the incomes here and here we have to admit that the government is kind of jumping into its stomach because the explanation for the income of... /The speaker has been excluded./... Someone shut me down, I turned myself on. That the reasons are slowed economic activity and therefore the excise duties do not grow as they should and as planned. It seems to me that in relation to this morning's presentation of the Prime Minister and his appearance of even excessive optimism, he is on the one hand optimistic, and on the other hand, we have a reduction in excise duty here by admitting that the burden of excise duty falls again on the back of those poorer or those in Croatia who have less. Here's an example of excise tax on cars, they're growing. However, it is growing because by changing the Taxation Act, we have put more burden on cars of cheaper, smaller categories than those of higher categories, more expensive, for which excise duties did not go at such a rate as these. We boasted, and this government keeps saying that taxes and taxes are improving. I would like to hear then the reasons why excise duties are falling on oil derivatives, I understand the mechanism for increasing the price of derivatives and what is excise duty, but we have an ongoing tourist season for which we all boast, and we would all be happy to have these praises true that we have an increase in the number of tourists. Turns out you don't spend anything in tourists in Croatia. Why suddenly plan for 347 million kuna to be less excise on oil derivatives, and tourism is growing. These tourists seem to be coming on their wings, flying I don't know what they're using up fuel in Croatia. It's a similar situation with excise duties on alcohol and beer. Tourism is growing, excise duties are down. Of course, there is not only a cause that excise duties fall, i.e. the collection of excise duties is not high, but there is a failure of the Road Safety Act where we have come from those unfortunate and clumsy zeros to the fact that we do not have excise duties that would be very good in the state budget. But it's paradoxical that's why they grow excise duties on non-alcoholic drinks. They grow and excise on coffee, which is certainly what we were all about to introduce coffee stamps. But strangely enough, the revenues from excise duties on luxury products are falling. It turns out that this government, with such excise duties, is raising the richer or what is also one of the real possibilities, that the rich who can spend luxury products are not in this country or have them, so they usually buy it out. What's fundamental to me and I can't accept it is that in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy we have a reduction of nearly 80 million kuna for this ministry. We know that we are on the threshold, or this government knows better when we will finally be true and before the negotiations to join the European Union, and in that situation when we know what our agriculture is we are going to cut the money for the agriculture ministry. I must say that this is a disastrous policy, especially since respected ladies and gentlemen in that ministry are simultaneously increasing the amount of salaries for the work of employees by nearly 11 million kuna. It's a paradoxical situation. It seems we have an extremely developed agriculture that doesn't need incentives, where we don't need investments. That's where we cut the money, and on the other side of the employee's salary we raise. As much memory serves me because I also see in other ministries that employees' salaries are trying to save, so two or three million kunas are shrinking for wages, on the other hand, since the same memory does not serve me in this country has not been going to increase or to a significant increase in wages in the state administration from which I would like to know if that's the reason for increased employment or that's the reason and it seems realistic to me, or that's the reason for the increase in wages. We are constantly boasting that there is no or that employment is forbidden then I would like to hear a normal rational debate or an explanation of what it is. However, what I cannot accept at the same time is that for rural development, and now everything that could point to possible rural development, the development of agriculture, the development of the economy, in general, is being reduced. I'm pulling the parallel again with employees' salaries. For example, for rural development 10 million less kuna in the budget. To encourage agricultural production 13 kuna less. For investment support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, 20 million kunas less. Turns out we don't need any of that. We know the state of our multi-annual disasters in Croatia and if we want to join the European Union, and we want to encourage only what is then found as over, at the same time we have 16 million kunas less money to raise multi-annual and permanent crops, about cattle production not to speak, 20 million kunas less. I'm just asking and it's 50% just what was planned in the budget for this year. Obviously, someone in the government is working in the interest of an import lobby, because we ourselves know that in Croatia there is mass imports from pork, veal, junetine, even frozen what has passed the deadline, frozen sold, in some ways sold and put into processing, and in Croatia where we can produce it simply no one is taking care of it and nothing is done. The second thing that is very interesting, it seems that in Croatia we all have a problem of water supply, so here on page 134 and 135 where water supply projects from Slavonia, border areas, the regional water supply of Croatia's Zagorje that only a few notes, here decrease amounts, I would like to hear why it is so. Even more interesting is one thing, and it would also be a major project of this government, traveling with a big pomp in Israel to talk about the irrigation project and see strange wonders, here once reduced amounts for irrigation are placed less than 14 million kuna and only 53% of the planned money is given for the irrigation project. I'd like to hear if it's the inability of this government to get the project to the end so it's all late or it's a savings program. But if it's saving, then it's definitely in the wrong place. We must also say that for the water economy, the money is reduced by 14%, waterways should not be spoken of. What is also interesting is in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development on 148 pages here where the budget rebalancing itself is being talked about, and last week we had a debate where it was said that this government is very concerned about Croatian navigation, so our shipyards are as busy as possible on one side, on the other hand we have a constant protest or announcement of protests by our fishermen, and at the same time we are reducing by 6.5 million kuna by almost 14% encouraging the construction of ships for Croatian boaters and fishing fleets in Croatian shipyards. We are also a tourist country, and I really don't know what reason it is to cut the money for the search and rescue at sea, and what's a little bit of a paradoxical thing to say is that the promotion of rural tourism is shrinking and you won't believe it with 7 million kunas that were foreseen in the budget is coming to an entire zero kuna which I would like to hear some kind of excessive explanation why it is so. It seems we simply don't need the development of rural tourism, we seem to have well-developed rural tourism, and in my county, I know people who are trying to get some quality funding to develop rural tourism, so it just doesn't come into consideration. I would also like to hear an explanation why, for the development of border areas, it is mostly according to the Republic of Slovenia, why it is simply not taken into account. For me, what is the highlight of the distaste because this government has strongly advocated that it will work to improve rail infrastructure, we know that from 1 January of next year we also have reforms in this area, that foreign operators will come as well. For corridor 5C, the money is reduced by 64 million kuna, and we know that the development of railways will make a lot of money for both our companies and our companies. Since my time is slowly running out, I have to say one more thing that is paradoxical to me, and I would like to hear an explanation, which is that for preschool education it seems to me that five million kunas, it seems that in our preschool education in the Republic of Croatia is great, beyond all standards, we have a super standard where and these 5 million kunas will not be trusted in letters and the number says that there is only 21 kuna left after this rebalance. I think it's unwarranted, and Mr. Minister, it seems to me that, you may not be directed, you may not know, but I would ask you to find that funds for decentralised functions that go towards local and regional self-government do not go with such a delay because they still influence work and pay, especially in the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40560	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40561	Dear Mr Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Korenika, interesting or not perhaps this is actually about one curiosity but this absurd, harmful, harmful budget harmful provision of 0.0 has been passed by in this House, thanks to the votes of HDZ and SDP, together you voted for it is simply true, but I am not saying that because of the reminder of what was a year ago, but that this time would protest and call on the government to abolish this harmful as I said to the budget a harmful norm. The death on the roads that it is great, but to claim that someone with 0.2 or 0.3 spills alcohol can be and cause an accident is absurd when on the other hand we know that pilots of those big jumbo jets can drive with 0.2 promilas and sailors of overseas ships with 0.5 promilas. Therefore, gentlemen of the government, Mr. Minister, you know best what damage this provision carries to your budget, please take up the government in this home, I believe that there is consensus here and change the provision that damages more winemakers, merchants, caterers than perhaps the budget itself, but in principle damages everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40562	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40563	I must stress in response to Mr Cain's reply that at the time, the SDP Club or most SDP MPs voted against the law, the three or three SDP representatives voted in favour of the Law, however, I and then claimed, and I argue because I also said in my presentation that it was an unnecessary and rigorous measure. Especially since even then statistics show approximately then 9% of traffic accidents in the Republic of Croatia were caused by the possible influence of alcohol and 47% due to excessive speed. So, obviously the government then reached out to some measure that seemed profitable, good and quality at the time, it is human to admit the mistake, however, I'm afraid that the position here is still quite hard, especially because here in the budget rebalancing at the Ministry of Development, the sea and tourism had an item for road safety even though there is no longer traffic safety advice there, therefore, traffic security on the roads is being managed exclusively by the Ministry of the Interior, and I haven't been able to say that because I've had too much time, but it also shows that money behaves in some things thrifty and somewhere like drunk countes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40564	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40565	Dear Mr Vice-President, dear colleague Korenika said a lot, and I agree with him that this budget is neither current nor developmental, nor social, but unfortunately for years in Croatia we haven't had a budget that is developmental or social, but the budget for both the former governments and these governments become the purpose of just filling holes, which is why we need to change important things to get a full reform of the tax system, which will make everything possible, and then we will be able to determine that the budget will be either social or developmental, but it can't be social if it's not primarily developmental because in this way we can accumulate more. It's also the same cost situation, low excise charge, for example on oil, oil derivatives were behind the former government, low charge for these authorities, low charge for both alcohol and all of these things, but it says that one system must be introduced to ensure that the state collects what it belongs to, and that the inspectors involved in this and the tax administrations and these financial police are given the authority of such a nature that will allow what the state needs to get into its budget to achieve it. But so far, this system is not working for us, and Minister Schucker used to speak earlier in the opposition how it should be changed as it is not, there are fewer revenues from oil and oil products, but unfortunately, not much has been done but has yet to be entered into that part of the reform. As far as employment is concerned, the same situation has been before and now and before, they have taken new jobs and are now employed and does not take care of ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40566	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40567	Thank you very much. So I can agree in one part with my colleague Kovacevic, however, this when speaking has been employed before, has been employed now, but I can ask you dear colleague how then 49 million kunas more for wages go, which number of civil servants must be in order to spend an additional 349 million kuna on salaries. It was and every government will hire certain jobs for people who are variable and then it can be 100 and 200 thousand kuna, but it can't be 349 million kuna dear colleagues. In doing so, I only warn you that excise duties are being taken care of by the customs administration, not tax administration, therefore they are determined on the effectiveness of the customs administration we can discuss, however, and these days we have may be here about these 349 million kunas that the Minister of Finance and this Government will raise salaries to customs officers who have had that white strike so that they work more efficiently and more efficiently and in quality and there is no possibility at the borders that we have had in the past days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40568	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. I'm asking the minister if he wants to say something to ask for a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40569	Just a few words since Mr. Korenik mentioned customs officers, Mr. Korenik, your government cut customs wages 40% in 2001, cut taxpayers' salaries 30%, so much for the motives of the pay cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40570	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40571	In my personal debate, I will remain at the deficit and deficit analysis and some expenditures. The deficit in last year was consolidated according to the report we received from last year's budget implementation was 4.9%. In that deficit, we didn't see a 1 billion-dollar long railway, nor no railway payment, we didn't see it for a simple reason because it's not the government's concern, according to the finance minister. He believes that the railway should pay the bills, I agree it should be paid, the liquidity should be regained at 60 to 90 days of payment deadlines, unfortunately in that case the railway is not. Why not, it's not for the simple reason why there is no reform if you remember our debate on railways, railway reform, railway restructuring, the modernisation of the railway has been transferred for 2005. That's not gonna happen. Therefore, there is no investment in the Croatian railways, neither rail infrastructure, nor the modernisation of freight or passenger transport itself. And that's why debts grow, you don't pay. But that's not recorded in the country's deficit. Not even in the plan this year, the enormous debt of the Croatian Railways, which will clearly grow, we will not have a deficit. And that is why it is quite certain that 4.2 projected deficits will not be enough and will remain the problem of the Croatian Railways. And that is not the problem of Croatian Railways because the problem of Croatian Railways if we solve investment in infrastructure and modernisation of passenger and freight transport is investment in Croatian economy. It is the employment of Croatian companies, it is the new employment of people because it is the complete production that has at this time free capacities for Croatia. So instead of having deficits because of what we're investing in, we're going to have deficits because we don't solve problems. Of course, we don't open health care as a topic. Maybe we'll open it now that the package comes tied up I'd say no to reform but extra burdens on users of health services but not reform. And then we'll probably open up the problem of continuous debt to health care. And the truth is, then we'll be able to discuss how the debt to the drugstores was settled, according to the big drugstores, how the credit was credited, who wrote it, who registered it, and why it wasn't in the deficit last year. So we see that these are extenuating terms when it comes to deficits. But what's particularly interesting about the deficit? You see, with the deficit, it's interesting that the former coalition government had its own program, wrote its programme, and, according to Mr. Minister, cheated on the IMF, cheated on the world, deceived everything because it didn't come out from the Ministry of Finance's macro-economic size. How we listen to that rhetoric today. No, the Croatian government didn't cheat for last year, and I'd say she cheated on the budget for this year. No, she agreed with the IMF that she could increase the deficits. So that's what we don't want to talk about openly. What is a question of deficits rather than simply sending messages of mutual conflict and I would say messages by which we want to be successful with disqualifications. The disqualifications really cannot be successful, so this has already come at the rebalancing of the 2005 budget. Because the basic question is whether we want to use the deficit to invest in the Croatian economy. And it is certain that the deficit should be fought at the moment when the rate of growth falls, when there is no investment, when especially the state has withdrawn from investment. It is evident that other people's sources should be provided. There is no need to be abroad, they can be domestic, but we need to invest, we need to invest in Croatian railways, we need to invest in the development of the gas network, we need to invest in the energy system, we need two power plants. Yes, and there is no doubt that we will all say we are investing in Croatia, we are fighting for this larger deficit because it will enable economic growth, it will make domestic demand possible, it will enable the employment of Croatian citizens. That deficit, that's an acceptable deficit. And there is no doubt that together we are going to fight both the IMF and others to explain that the deficit is not dangerous because with the growth of the economic rate it simply becomes smaller. But no, by stopping development, by falling with the growth rate, we're growing consumption. With the growth of that consumption, we have a budget deficit completely consummated and that's what worries us, and that's why we think there's something that needs to be done in the government by the end of the year. It is necessary to change that policy, it is necessary to think again and again about the future of Croatia's electricity industry and the future of the HZ company and investment and restructuring in HZ. And of course, we need to secure the energy gas and stop worrying about what winter will be like. That's the government's job, that's why the deficit can be. But the deficit which is evident that all the increases in the financing account at this time are only due to consumption and change then we estimate that this is very dangerous for the stability of the Croatian economy and especially for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Of course, when we look at the spending side and look at incentives, we remain very concerned with only two sectors. Shipyards and agriculture. What about shipyards? When more or less, we all know that in the shipyards we have accumulated new losses due to the exchange rate of dollars and I would say unfinished jobs to restructure the shipyards themselves. Are we opening a shipbuilding reserve? No, I don't. And whether individence also stems from the shipbuilding attitude towards its committees, and in good works they are primarily Croatian companies because the importer pays very quickly. Therefore, we know that there are problems, we are not making efforts to solve problems in Croatian shipbuilding. No, it is a new deficit that will suddenly baffle us, perhaps already next year because it will not be a problem of only Croatian creditors who cannot collect claims but will probably have a payout problem because there is always a problem of how to use the guarantees issued in Croatian shipbuilding. There are no new incentives. There are no reports of what is happening in shipbuilding, let alone what I would say would be necessary for the modernisation of shipbuilding technology to be competitive in some way and to reduce costs on the production of ships. There is no incentive in agriculture that the incentives in agriculture would solve the problems of agricultural reform. The competitiveness of agriculture, which would in some ways separate social policy from small households from investment in strong agricultural production. We don't have that either. The answer was insufficiently invested and could be invested. I expect the government to provide answers to these topics by the end of the year, so it may be more fortunate in the 2006 draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40572	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40573	Thank you. In fact, here we have heard a lot from our colleague Linic about the care of investing in the Croatian railways. And I can't actually agree not to worry about the development of Croatian railways. And there's one thing I'd like to do, Mr. Linic, so this government invests as much as it can but certainly doesn't invest in the way you did to buy in 2003 a billion kuna of spare parts that will never be installed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40574	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević, and I'm asking the MPs for, excuse me, Your Honor, Minister, I forgot that he asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for the Croatian public and for the truth, I have to react to certain statements because Mr. Linic directly accused this government of covering up the deficit last year. And that's what he said when there was a report on the execution of the state budget. And since the government then held a session in Brijuni I did not have the opportunity to respond directly, so I am taking the opportunity to take the opportunity to, given that Mr Linic has practically repeated this debate, that because of the Croatian public, I am telling the truth. It is amazing that in 2003 1.2 billion were needed to meet all needs in the Croatian Railways. But this is why 2.8 billion in 2004 and 2005 are not enough with a billion and 600 are already more funds, Croatia's railways have a billion losses. The second thing, Mr. MP, Croatian railways are not a consolidated balance sheet of the state budget. Croatian railways received 2.8 billion kuna from the state budget on the basis of the decision of the High House and their own revenues, their annual, financial plan and within these frameworks must move. Health care. I'd like to discuss health care with you two things. At the end of 2003, the former government made it clear, repeated several times in this Assembly that... In health care, they're zero. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We said last year that they were... A billion and 100 million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they were part of the government budget deficit. And Mr. Linić's raising, in fact, agreed with business banks that, with the discount that they agree with drug suppliers, they are practically taking over the debt of the state towards suppliers, it is not creating new obligations, these are obligations already recorded as expenditure in the state budget and in a year Croatia will not cost anything but at the same time 820 million have been injected into the Croatian economy and with these money commitments have been paid. The drug suppliers agreed on a discount with the banks and in this way the funds were paid but I repeat these ariers were recorded neatly in all the financial reports made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to all international financial institutions and to all but at the end of 2000 there was a colleague Hebrang who was a minister at the time. According to the report of the last government and what you sent to the international monetary fund, the ariers in health care were zero. And I'd just like to explain what the Aryans are, these are the obligations that have reached 31. 12 and they weren't paid. And as far as the shipyards are concerned, the incentives in agriculture. This government has issued guarantees to all shipyards that have requested guarantees for new construction. The problem is in guarantees that need to cover company liquidity. I would not now open the question of Viktor Lenco and why the government of the former did not give the guarantee at a given time, why this state budget cost 500 and some more million kunas because Lenac could not settle its obligations and paid for this government. So, at no time has any shipyard been questioned by its normal operation, normal work, because all guarantees for new ships been issued, and as far as the liquidity guarantee is concerned, at the time when the shipbuilding strategy is being established, at the moment the Croatian Government will issue guarantees and you and the other representatives would like to warn Croatia's obligations towards the SAA, where it is clearly stated that no shipbuilding strategy and steel is being established that from the basis of the SAA and the European Commission all the guarantees will be treated as an illegal and normal thing that will not make it worth our while on the black list, but I repeat all the requirements for the guarantee, for the shipbuilding, here, yesterday I signed the last guarantee for the 3rd of May were signed and the basis of all shipyards can operate. Incentives in agriculture can again be combined with data like this and such, as it was in the end to just look back at the market in Split, the market in Split is looking for 69 million kunas that have nothing to do with new construction... These are assets that they have problems with losses from previous years, so these are liquidity funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they're not what they are. Domicile guarantees issued in new-building shipyards than is a classic financial guarantee and you know, according to the Budget Act, according to the Support Act, last year a competition agency was established and we will not be able to issue a single guarantee until AZTN gives us a positive opinion in 2006. And these are the circumstances that changed compared to what was two, three years ago. Therefore, conditions must be created for the government to issue a guarantee, as any other guarantee issued will be considered not to comply with the SAA.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40576	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the budget, the debate on budget rebalancing, is certainly the time when we remember the promises already forgotten. The promises of this government in election time, we'll cut taxes, we'll raise the standard to the citizens. Does anyone else remember that guarantee card issued by the prime minister? She became a completely worthless currency. .../The speaker shut down and turned back on./... nor achieve the real successes of the government. And it's clear that here already over 70% of citizens believe the government is going in the wrong direction. And then it's clear that the original government's self-reliance is disappearing, which is increasingly unfortunately turning itself into a blatant disregard for reality. And as the poet exclaimed, there would be little personification of fruit and government here, look at a little fruit after rain, etc., but let the sun hide a little bit, all of these spells go away, it's again, as a matter of fact, it's usually a bit of a poor tree, so here, this debate is happening in a moment, it's gone, and there's a moment of truth. Although the sun has hidden a little bit, it is clear that this government is unable to launch Croatia. The truth on home ground has triggered Croatia towards the economic crisis and at the international level.../The speech has been turned off and re-enabled./... better say she placed it in the donkey bench. Bad developments in public finances over the last two years it is evident to everyone, and as it is not necessary to be Edison to know how to turn on the light so are these economic indicators of our most average under average citizen quite clear. Bad development is also the fact that two state budgets have already been breached, and at this point it is difficult to believe both the identified and 4.2% deficits. Authorities are facing key structural problems such as indexing pensions and filling the state register, which the government can hardly meet in view of its capacities. Bad credit rating weakens the results of fiscal policy, limited implementation of structural reforms and an increased risk of slowing down the process, approaching Croatia's European Union. That's our reality. The key is the fiscal deficit and current account deficit, which is the result of, of course, excessive government spending, which also confirms this budget rebalance. Then the decline in Croatia's global competitiveness and poor macroeconomic data. We often look at the other countries that have passed us in competitiveness for no reason, let's look at Romania, Bulgaria, let's look at some of this data where in two years, Croatia has simply collapsed in many indicators. The rapid growth of imports from exports again, according to data, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce itself in the first quarter of imports increased by 10.7% and exports by 7.7%. They believe in this government, too, in the international financial community. It is known that the government is often only under pressure to push, this government has cut many tax reliefs with an ironic explanation that the poor are so poor that these benefits that the former government has provided and cannot be used and that only the abuses of those who are richer are at work. Now he's getting ready to cut off the incentive to save housing savings. So in this country how to plan life, how one family young enough to have one prosperity, what to rely on, how to rely on state incentives and tax incentives because all of this has to be long-term, and if it's ensured by one government then it's just for the citizens, it's not because of the previous government it's a commitment to these citizens, because people don't just lose their backs and not just lose money, but they lose what's most important, they lose trust in a country that's far-fetched already. Salary expenditures are up and wages are not up, so it's significantly bogged down now we can say a completely atrophied state apparatus, so much for reforming the state administration. We've got sea employees, that's the cost of 346 million. It was clear that the budget or planning, here many times it was said that not well planned expenditures, it had nothing to do with planning or anyone could be so incompetent that he could not immediately realize that it had nothing to do with reality, nor did this rebalancing have anything to do with reality. The key question here is where and how to achieve the Gross Social Product of 3.7, when according to the Croatian Statistics Institute data in the first quarter was only 1.8, it is cut in social and health, this rebalancing of Croatia ceases to be practically a social state, a reduction of 226 million kuna in health care you still call and dare to call it reform, so it is a protureform procedure. The government has no strength or capacity for the reform follow-up started by the former government. The former government was a reformer, so as in history after reforming, it came against reformation, and what is a special shame, while the paedophiles of each type are hitting on the weakest of the weakest, you cut money for those disabled children, to help social care centres, and instead of strengthening institutions, you are deepening the social care crisis that is already being talked about in Europe, so these are problems that have grown and crossed Croatia's borders. There is a reduction in the average of 50% to 60%, no more investments that mean employment and swing, public debt exceeds 52% and will reach 60% soon. In the Ministry of Agriculture there is no kuna for compensation for natural disasters, at the Ministry of the Interior, a significant reduction, indeed an excellent and encouraging message to criminals and in this summer time of pyromaniacs and cease-firedoers of each type, the state reduces significant funds for fire equipment. The Ministry of Justice is reducing the money for information, little that the judicial body has received from 2003 a simple computer, no funds for the prison system, and the minimum funds granted to the prison system are being seized, and here we have recently discussed exactly the state of the prison system report, all unanimously supported that in the budget rebalancing we will move the funds, therefore the situation in the prison system is alarming. And what is particularly worrying is that funds to fight addiction are being reduced, funds to fight corruption are being reduced, and that is when Croatia sinks 9 index points in the assessment of corruption perception, Croatia loses the battle with corruption. This government almost capitulated to the crime of every kind and especially the most severe. The calculations are our daily daily life, and we don't know for months what's going on, and we don't really have a Minister of the Interior. Gentlemen, the fact is that you are not capable, that you do not know how to work, that the new government will be much harder to take over than it was in 2000, that after two years of your authority living harder, you live worse than in 2003, so you are thus prohibiting protests on Mark's square, protests that HDZ once so earnestly encouraged. And so instead of fulfilling your election promise to the citizens about the growth of standards, these same citizens and workers for this government have trafficked into potential terrorists, both sad and pathetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40578	I thank you for this poetry-spent speech of yours that has brought a little liveliness into the assembly, I suppose that poetry is the reason that we only have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40579	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect assumption that in social categories it is significantly reduced to budget funds, it looks that way but must be stressed that it has been reduced, spent on the change of car tyres in these portfolios, and for a million kunas a year, and also the means to advance for Komarevo and Vukovar, which gave your Mr. Vidovic's relatives advance payment of the whole situation has also been thrown out of the budget and can no longer be. These are the items and these are the exact records of those things you did for your term of office. It is incorrect to reduce what is involved in the prevention of intoxicating drugs, social sensitivity to the categories that are necessary, for them there will always be money in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40580	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues have said they are reducing funds to combat drug abuse. I have to correct and say here that the former Government of the Law Prevention Centre, by amending the Health Protection Act, has placed under the Agency for Public Health and thus damaged all institutions in Croatia with considerable resources because they did not provide funds for the functioning of the centre and the centres were financed from the internal reserves of the Public Health Institute and thus the institutions went to minus. For the first time, the government has placed the programme of prevention of addiction in funding from HZZO, the Ministry of Health and small part of the county. And addiction prevention centres can finally carry out their activities for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40582	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40583	The lady has violated the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 which speaks of the basics when this institution may be used in an incorrect manner. So, gentlemen of the Parliament, you need to read the entire budget so you can correct me and you can't not correct me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40584	Now you're breaking the rules of procedure. I don't think the distinguished representative Brnadic hurt Article 209. Thank you. The word has a state secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40585	I really must say it again because it is apostrophe of health and social care. Indeed, I repeat, for the sake of the public, no right has been abolished by any user, not one protégé, and to explain, indeed, that when we speak of child care and youth with behavioral disorders, there is indeed 694 thousand 961 kuna. But please nice, office material and other material costs, material raw materials, telephone services, promotion services, information, rents, utility services and car tyres. And I have to say that it is on other items, and the reason is that in these years, about 80 new cars have actually been purchased, so the old tires are no longer needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40586	Take it easy. All three at the same time. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40587	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State did not exactly say or correct something that my colleague Ingrid said exactly. It is true that smaller inventory, car tyres, or what goes under, are removed on certain items because, as far as I know, not just car tyres go. But then I ask you like this. So consider, for example, the concern within the centre, or within the framework of social protection of social care. We're taking care of the psychics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40588	You've corrected an incorrect quote, but you can't argue. And I'm asking fellow MPs and ministers for you, and I'm running a session and allow it. Don't argue under an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40589	I'm not discussing it, but I want to make it right because it's not exactly what the secretary of state says that only items relating to some material expenditures have been reduced because I'm going to take, for example, in the context of one-time financial assistance to citizens and households in money... person reduction over 6 million kuna. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40590	Thank you. Time's up. Correction of an incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40591	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting Mrs. Dorice Nikolic's incorrect quote that these children's funds with disabilities and disabled ones were removed on car tires and a small inventory. Ma'am Nikolic, 16.5 million kunas have been downloaded on 10 items intended for children with behavioral disorders and disabled people. What kind of car tires cost 16.5 million kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40592	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the State Secretary's claim that only items relating to spare tyres have been removed. That's just not true. For example, at the Centre for Accommodation and Rehabilitation Stancic, 700 thousand kuna are removed from the planned million-and-a-half. It's not car tires. Then, for the Centre for Labour Therapy and Rehabilitation Mir, 4 million and 400 thousand are removed. It's not car tires. And so let's say all of a million 600, 4 million, 3 million, 700, all of a row in special needs care homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40594	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, associates, colleagues and colleagues! This budget rebalance shows that during the debate on the 2005 budget, we were right when we claimed that the budget was absolutely unrealistic and that all the funds that were planned for salaries, for pensions, for defenders, for maternity benefits were absolutely not sufficient and, of course, this is now shown in this budget rebalancing. In doing so, we only impose funds on these needs by rebalancing the budget, and here we are trying to convince ourselves that there are positive trends in the country for children and that this budget rebalance points to the developmental line of this government. In my opinion, economic activity does not have enough or not enough to feed, to express myself vividly, all that hungry mouth in this country and even more to justify all the days of promise. I remind Mr. Finance that he himself said in his opening speech today that it is not right, that it is not right that 60 million kuna is given extra for the unemployed, for the unemployment benefits and that at the same time we are separating 400 million kuna for various incentives in the field of employment. I would very much like to know, no one has been able to explain it to me in the budget, the budget debate this year, where the 400 million kuna is. The finance minister also mentioned a national employment action plan. I remind him if he forgot.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40596	Excuse me, just a second. Fellow MPs, I ask you for a little silence to allow Assembly representative Sobol to present his debate. I'm asking for a little silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40597	Otherwise I'll scream even more. So, I remind you that the National Employment Action Plan was adopted after the budget for this year that the budget for this year that funds in the budget for this year, for its implementation is not secured and, in addition, the back month or two of the international community has been assessed as something that we can only call a package of good wishes and only possibly for the next year will all the measures under this national action plan be developed. Otherwise, I'd be very happy if even you as Minister of Finance could see what's going on in that sphere at all. When we talk about where certain items were reduced, where the funds came from, and I will also repeat it because it is true that the funds were being downloaded and reduced in certain positions relating to young people, to schooling, to education, to people with disabilities. In doing so, it cannot be true that some MPs are dealing with the fact that in the first six months, very little budget implementation has been shown in these paragraphs because it points to two things to me. Or the ministries in the draft budget envisioned certain programmes that they actually knew in advance that they would not achieve at all. Or secondly, programs are scheduled, but someone in those ministries isn't doing their job. And that can't be the reason for those funds to be taken down. And let's say that when you look at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, it is true that it is reduced to implement youth policy, to implement measures of family and population policy, support programmes for the social empowerment of families, young children, persons with disabilities are reduced, and among other things, programmes for older people within the intergenerational solidarity administration. I want to look specifically at two ministries, it's the Ministry of Education, Education and Sports. When we talk about the fact that children went very badly in this budget rebalancing then please take the preschoolers, kindergarten children, so you have one item of development of preschool education where 5 million kunas were scheduled for this year, imagine they have 51 kuna left in the position of the team. I guess a few of them found themselves, had some coffee at the expense of it, and said we'd take this off. At the same time, we have 300 thousand kuna scheduled for pre-school, pre-school education development programmes. How much reform of higher education there is in this budget is already sufficiently said and when we talk about salaries, that is, the funds that we need to put forward with this budget rebalance. So yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality, the government's representatives said that the ministry had calculated a little, or a little, thought they might need a little bit of money, actually it turns out they needed more to pay. In the Ministry of Education, I'm really waiting to hear back, which is why all 15 million kunas are being removed for early foreign language learning. Why was all 17 million removed from the item providing professional and information services in the system of primary schools? Why all 7.5 million kunas were removed for new employment, for newly opened school facilities, while 70% were reduced funding in the position of raising and training students with developmental difficulties. And more about sports and sports activities. I expect fellow MPs, sports advocates to talk a little bit about it. So look, it's just a cynicism that one item at the Ministry of Education predicts 300 thousand kunas in order to mark the international year of education by exercise. At the same time in the paragraphs, 50% reduction in non-brooming training, 20% decreases in sports in sports clubs, kindergartens and dormitories are completely eliminated by incentives for exercise, more than 50% reduce the funding for sports at universities, universities, and prevention of violence by sport in schools. As a matter of fact, we, with 300 thousand kuna, will mark this international year of body training. And finally about the Ministry of Health and Social Services. I stand by what I said in correcting the incorrect assumption that social care activities reduce resources. You can see most of all, Madam Secretary of State on one-time cash aid as compensation to citizens and the public in money where you reduce those funds by slightly less than 10 million kunas. Also, by a million kunas, or slightly less than 40%, you reduce education and professional training of workers in the social care system. And when we talk about care, whether for children, whether for adults, with special needs, with mental difficulties, with physical damages living in various homes in Croatia and when we say that we are not actually reducing for them, but here we are reducing something relating to inventory, as regards equipment, to this, to that. I'd like it never to be said like that again because we just all remember what one part of our homes are like to us. Children and adults, and we say not to cut them, but here we reduce material investment in these facilities. I'm going to end up with a part that refers to gender equality. In this budget rebalancing, we predicted that funds would be increased for the attorney general's office. I strongly support the increase in funds, but I think it is finally not enough for the staff's office to be teamed up, and I believe that we will find more funds in the next budget. However, I warn that this increase has been made for the office of the Ombudsman is almost equal to the amount that the government is removing from the prosecutor for gender equality and the Ombudsman for children. I believe that all three offices, all three defences are extremely important for the overall functioning of Croatian society, and it is inadmissible to impose one asset on another at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40598	Thank you very much. And now I would like to interrupt this debate in a moment and, as announced, we would like to move on to – a debate on a proposal to show confidence to Ivica Kirin to carry out the duties of Minister of the Interior. We continue the debate without the umbrella, about the rebalancing of the state budget. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40600	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40601	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. May I have your peace and attention, please? Dear representative Vesna Škulić from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40602	Thank you very much again. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I'd like a little bit now about car tires or social welfare. When I took part in the discussion on the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the SDP club promoter, on behalf of the Government, it was explained by the State Secretary of State, Mr Nino Žganec, who, as an argument why the Government does not wish to support this declaration, said that I quote: "The government is fully aware of the unfavourable position of one part of the disabled and that it has been reacted to and responded to by a whole series of legal and implementing rules which are reflected in the concrete implementation of the rights of a whole series of resolutions that bring people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia." Furthermore, on behalf of the government, he noted "that the government has declared itself a social state through implementing regulations and that people with disabilities in this context have a special position" to complete the quote. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to look into this special position for you. Lately, we have witnessed various affairs where people with disabilities, especially those with intellectual impairment, have been abused and what the Government is doing in that case. At the entry "Affirmations of Rights", the promotion of policy for people with disabilities takes down 250,000 kunas. Furthermore, the item "Secrets support for the social empowerment of families, young people, children and disabled persons" also reduces by 2 million 846 thousand kunas, as it is obvious that the Government does not match the strong people with disabilities who will be able to advocate their rights and fight for them. According to the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the Republic of Croatia, there are 3 thousand and 52 users who have a thousand and 513 children and a thousand 539 adults. In the homes of social care of other founders there are a thousand and 416 users of 469 children and 947 adults. They are cared for by 26 homes of social care whose founder is the Republic of Croatia and 15 homes of other founders. There are also 11 centres for education and education, 11 rehabilitation centres and one day center for rehabilitation and work activities, one day center for rehabilitation and one home for children and youth whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this rebalancing budget has been called into question and, therefore, under a large questionnaire, adequate psychosocial and medical rehabilitation. I would like to know how such rehabilitation will be carried out especially in order to support a disabled person in order to increase its efficiency for an independent life and community involvement. That's why I'm going to talk about the following items again under quotes of "car tires." On several occasions, I spoke in the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities. It also took down 100,000 kunas. However, I wonder if there is any point in the existence of this commission that no one listens to anyway, and otherwise, the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a question of persons with disabilities. Our love for children is immeasurable. But when the same children are allocated funds in the form of extras, then our love in numbers is reduced by 58 million and 700 thousand kuna. Mr. Minister, how will you explain a reduction of 48 million kuna for the pension of certain categories of pensioners? And how are you going to explain to all the unemployed persons with disabilities for the virtual existence of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of people with disabilities? First, from 21 million kuna, you reduced that fund to 20 million kuna, and then without any criteria, without implementing acts, you divided the pure form by the end of last year 9 million kunas. Then from that same existing, non-existent fund for this year you cut by a million and 157 thousand kuna. Please explain to me whether this fund exists at all, when no fund manager has been appointed yet and for two years in a row you've been presenting fictitious funds, I don't know if it makes any sense to note that no one has been employed through that fund yet. And what to say about the welfare system, I'd also like to talk about car tires again. Immediately at the start of the budget rebalancing, you have reduced 5 million kunas by 679 thousand, one-time cash aid by 9 million, 750 thousand kuna, you are well aware that many families who live on social aid and those in our country, unfortunately very much to survive, often use exactly the institute of one-time social assistance in the increased amount that serves to obtain winter clothing, shoes or heating. Mr. Minister, I think it would be best for all those performances, complaints and complaints and complaints instead of social workers to direct you. About child care and youth with behavioral disorders you immediately removed 694 thousand 691 kuna, we are very sensitive when it comes to children with physical or mental impairment. Unfortunately, however, we have reduced our sensitivity by 2 million and 180 thousand kuna. And we know exactly how much it takes to invest in this population to get involved in a regular system. Unfortunately, our sensitivity, or sensibility of the government, is highly questionable. What to say about the center for accommodation and rehabilitation Stančić. We've all heard about the tragedy at that center and the death of several users about two years ago, mostly their deaths are related to the bad conditions and the standard of living in that center, and what we do, right at that center we save 750 thousand kuna. The Centre for Work Therapy and Rehabilitation Mir Rudine we take down 4 million and 400 thousand kunas, I don't know if it makes sense to list all the welfare centers that have the funds for regular work halved, you'll justify with car tires, and unfortunately these centres don't even have cars, so they don't need cars either. Vukovar often serves us for daily political purposes, but care for the city can be read even from one item, the entry for a home for old and powerless people in Vukovar has been reduced by 3 million 559 thousand kuna. Unfortunately, after reading about budget rebalancing, I have to show you a skepticism about caring and solving the problem of people with disabilities. I also admire the black humor of some of my colleagues who in a strange way justify these items and tell people with disabilities you are very well but you are not aware of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40603	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40604	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. During the debate on the 2005 state budget, we from the SDP Club warned that the revenue side of the budget was overrated and bloated, and hence its realisation was questionable. And our suspicions are confirmed by this rebalance of the budget. It is now clear that this year's budget revenues will be lower by as much as 786 million kuna. The government realised that this year it would not achieve plans based on projections based on last year's revenues. That's why the government is forced to rebalance the budget. Finance Minister Mr. Shuker said the revenue side is corrected according to the reality of the Croatian economy. And what a Croatian reality I am today. The least I can say is it's not good. The government has no development strategy, or at least so far has not shown that it has a vision of Croatia's development and progress. Economic policy is being led in the short term, literally from the problem to the problem as it arises, and then reaches out for fire-fighting measures to address these problems. There are no more important projects in the long term, but we depend on what the tourist season will be and whether someone will grant us a loan. No matter how certain government leaders try to show the situation in a better light, the facts still wanted me to admit it or not say otherwise. They say the economy is stagnating, economists have long warned that the country's economic picture is getting worse and the advice of the Croatian National Bank has sent a clear warning that the indicators are not good and promising. Among other things, the slowdown of economic growth, which is being warned by data from several sectors, the higher inflation rate and the short-term borrowing of a country that is trying to bridge the gap between budgetary expenditures and revenues. Furthermore, the fact is that foreign debt is growing, at the end of April of this year gross foreign debt was 570m euros higher than at the end of last year, which means that it continues to grow at the end of April this year, the foreign debt reached 23.3 billion euros and that is the level foreseen for the end of this year. That this government does not have a clear strategy as well as how it works and the fact that no measures have yet been taken to date that will have a decisive impact on the reduction of the budget deficit from last year's 4.9% to 3.7%. Due to the delay in these measures, i.e. because the measures have not been adopted and applied at the very beginning of this year, it is doubtful whether this year's deficit will be held at 3.7% of GDP as set out in the agreement with the IMF. The Croatian Union Association also requires urgent public debate and the adoption of a strategy and economic development of Croatia that will enable production to grow, as well as the construction of an eco-market economy. The HUS reports, the country's total public debt is 115 billion kuna, there are 308,000 unemployed, nearly 20,000 blocked companies that employ 35,000 workers, and as many as 400,000 workers are working on black, and these worrying data can soon look only worse. That the guarantee card has long expired shows the decline in support of citizens who fall from month to month, so recent surveys show that more than 50 citizens do not generally approve of the government's work, and even over 70% of citizens believe that things are going wrong in Croatia. According to the Agency for Market Research and Public Change, the HEND's optimism index in Croatia is 39.3 and falls by points compared to May and 10 points from June last year. It should be said that individual representatives of the government from time to time are shyly announcing that this government has made a strategy for Croatia's economic development, but this strategy cannot finally see the light of day and that the public is familiar with it. And when there is no response in the economy then the only answer is to cut costs in the state budget and, of course, make it much easier to do so by hitting the social and health care rather than by reducing the flood of administration and other irrational costs. The basic feature of this year's budget rebalanced about a billion kunas that were not spent as planned and the focus of this money mainly for the payment of pensions and maternity benefits. The funds are reduced by those who have not spent the planned funds in the first six months. In light of the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 on page 7, it reads: "The analysis of individual expenditure groups has identified a major growth compared to 2004, the amending budget proposes to reduce the expenditures mentioned above and reduce to real growth rates". As it is written, it can only be interpreted in two possible ways, one way is that the government was very misplanning the State budget for 2005 and now suddenly remembered that there was no need for such funds to carry out certain items. And another interpretation might come down to this. The government is forced to go to spending cuts because of the poorly planned revenue side of the budget, and then it does it in mind without real analysis, the need of certain budget users already comes down to a mere harmonisation of figures. As a result, the proposed rebalance reduced the funds of the development funds, the Development and Employment Fund, taken from 25 million kuna, the Regional Development Fund 8.4 million kuna. The state inspectorate's budget has been cut by 7.2 million kuna. A little paradoxical if it is kept in mind that the lower tax and excise charge than planned suggests, of course, that the grey economy continues to flourish in the country precisely from the inspectors expecting their actions to increase the collection of budget revenues. It seems that the Central State Strategy Office has not worked very well either, so its budget has been cut by a million kunas, almost a third of the planned amount. The health ministry with the proposed rebalancing has lost 226 million kuna. That ministry has been seized almost all the money planned to invest in hospitals. It also reduces the planned funds for the renewal of old medical and laboratory equipment. The originally planned funds for this purpose amounting to 50 million kunas have been reduced by as much as 16 million and 200 thousand kunas, and we have often warned in this assembly about the poor equipment of our health institutions, the weariness and obsolescence of existing equipment, so I am not clear why the government found fit to save precisely on this item. On the basis of this proposal, amending and supplementing the state budget, it can be concluded that at least when the Ministry of Health and Social Care is concerned, it will be spared on various educational programmes such as primary healthcare education. Furthermore, in the Parliament, we also all got together, so by ruling us out of the opposition, we agreed that addiction is a great evil that we must fight with all available means, and therefore it is just amazing that for education and training of healthcare professionals and associates to prevent addiction, treat and rehabilitate addicts of funds that were planned for 2005 to be reduced by as much as 93,000 kuna. Then I wonder what's left of the remaining seven grand. It is unwarrantedly saved on various preventive programmes such as preserving and improving the reproductive health of young people and women, preserving oral health, prevention of HIV, prevention of malignancies, protection of the population from infectious diseases, not to mention further. And I would point out to everyone the well-known fact that the health system in which it is being saved on preventive programs is actually the most expensive system. So when we look at all of this, then it's clear to us that in a system like this, the rights of patients will be paid very little attention and this confirms this rebalancing where the funds are meant to protect patients' rights reduced by approximately 60%, or the planned funds of 70,000 kuna, are reduced by as much as 40,000 kuna. So much for patients' rights. And when we discussed the Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children and lawyers for gender equality on several occasions, it was warned about the problem of the teamwork of the Centre for Social Care, and not only the numbering teams of the centres but also the professional skills of the centre staff. This rebalancing reduces the planned funds for education and professional training of workers in the social care system by one million kuna. Finally, I would like to point out once again that this proposal also changes and complements the State budget for 2005 confirms that the Republic of Croatia is not moving in the right direction. Without a stronger start of the economy, we cannot expect an improvement in the standards of citizens and social givings to become questionable. That is why it is high time for the government to take business seriously and start solving the country's life problems and, of course, because of everything said for budget rebalancing, I cannot vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40605	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The revenues in this budget rebalancing are less than 786 million kuna, showing that the government has serious problems with tax collection, contributions and excise duties. They scratch at the bottom. The biggest incursion is in VAT, even a billion kunas 3.3% less. What does that mean? There is no expected traffic of goods and services, everything stops slowly and will stop until this government has the support of the parliamentary majority. It's bad in excise duties, 677 million kuna less, minus 8%. There's no way to increase excise charge, the gray economy is booming. Oil excises minus 347 million kuna. It's the same as in 2004. The excise duties on cigarettes minus 183 million kuna, excise duties on beer minus 200 million kuna. The total income from excise duties, so he failed fat. And how could we not if we had a government like we have a minister in it that we have. He promised 2 billion more when he attacked the former minister of the Church here as a parliamentary representative because he couldn't charge excise fees, so he spoke when I was the minister of 2 billion he would buy from excise duties. Where are those 2 billion excise duties, Minister Shucker, show them to you, or tell me I had no idea what I was saying. I only said that to become a minister. And now that I'm a minister, I can't do what I promised. So it wouldn't be less than tax and tax when Minister Schucker here the other day refused my amendment when we passed the excise tax code on coffee. I suggested then that the criminal provisions be increased, that those criminal provisions be disciplined, that coffee traffickers have a minimum penalty, not a thousand kuna, but five thousand kuna, and not as much as 15, but 40 in the old law. And the minister rejected this amendment of mine because he said that the average salary in Croatia does not allow such high fines. I really don't know what the average salary of coffee smugglers is, but I'm touched by the concern of Minister Schuker for the standard of coffee smugglers because he only showed it by refusing my amendment, by refusing to harshen the fines of coffee smugglers and by coming into the budget at least according to those fines. The problem is also the collection of contributions minus 833 million kuna. Who pays the contributions? Employees for employees. Contribution less, employees less. It's one time one, that little kid understands. And there's talk of some kind of development, some kind of new employment. It's all a loose tap. Now, how do you increase those revenues? Here, Minister Shuker, I have a proposition for you to increase it all together. Bring the Law on the Legalization of Prostitution and then bring in a special chapter on political prostitution in that law and you will be able to charge taxes for example from those two council members in the Split Assembly who were elected on one list and then select the mayor from the opposite list. Because you see ministers, when someone sells a house or an apartment, they pay 5% of their taxes to the state. And when someone sells honor, honesty, reputation and trust, the voters get money for it and the state pays nothing. In addition, if we had introduced such a law, we would have introduced some kind of medical examination required. Well, this common prostitution would be controlled by sexually transmitted diseases and this political one might be able to control mental health. Because you see, when someone comes out to run for one party's list, they still get elected to the council, the voter's trust. And he doesn't choose the mayor from his list, but from some other list, then or so he took the money, so you need to take the tax for it, or you need to take his business ability and provide professional help. After all, we are a human society, and we cannot leave people without health care when it is obvious that they need that health care. But the question is, will you be able to handle it because you have abolished 226 million kunas from the Ministry of Health? It's been taken away almost all the money for investments in the hospital. This budget is a picture of the Government, but before I present this picture to you, I will explain to you, I have sent one amendment, I have sent one amendment for which I ask you to consider it, namely, you see, you are, it shows a great story, all in great care for Croats in emigration, Croats in neighbouring countries, Croats in the world. Racan's government made one decision to finance Croatian projects in Vojvodina, 130 thousand kuna for the Croatian academic society from Subotica. They started some projects, and it was going pretty well with these projects until your government came along, so that money stopped them 130 thousand kunas. Now all your projects have stopped. Well, I suggest you take a little bit of it, at least one 200 thousand kuna, 250 from those high, large-rich funds to help the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and help these in Subotica, so that at least they can finish their projects that they started to care about wouldn't be so convenient and, in fact, without any background. Let's go back to the picture of the government that this budget rebalance shows, so he's a scanned picture of the government, it turns out that the government doesn't even know how to plan, that I can't manage, that I don't know how to charge taxes, that he doesn't know how to deploy funds, what does he know? He can make promises! And what doesn't he know? He can't meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40607	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40608	Mr. President, fellow Stazic, no Croatian project from Vojvodina has been suspended or stopped. In a public tender, all the projects that have come forward, and from members of Croatian national minorities in neighbouring countries, they are continued if they started with your government but new projects that have, which they have reported to, they continue in this government as well. Therefore, do not speak falsely, as you often say in the Croatian Parliament. Still, the Assembly speaker is something other than the Communist party.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40609	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40610	counterpart Stazic suggested introducing a tax on political prostitution, which I think should be seriously considered. Maybe it wouldn't be bad, he'd make a lot of money in the state budget, but he mentioned a Split case. When two Croatian pensioners on one list led by the SDP when they entered the city council, they voted for candidates from another list that allowed them to come to power. One of them was Mr. Boban at 9.45 and the session was signed at 10 a.m. for the SDP candidate for president of the city council and voted against him within 15 minutes. So, I just wanted to say to my colleague that maybe this health factor that you were talking about, senility factors, forgetfulness etc., so much more stands out that you might need medical examinations, if you need to in the Assembly, I already suggested it once, so some of it has gone awry but I said since drivers of heavy motor vehicles in road traffic or truck drivers every 6 months have to have such checks why we should not have us or town council council council councils, etc., because our job is responsible at least as much as theirs. So, I think it would be possible to consider your proposals and that it might be a good contribution to the state budget as well as to mental and political hygiene in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40611	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40612	I doubt my colleague Jurevic here is senile, I doubt it. Because I doubt that this gentleman will forget the money he's won for betraying the voter's trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40613	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate on the rebalancing of the state budget is very thematically related to what you colleagues Stazic have started, a debate on political prostitution, in which you are spiritually supported by colleague Marin Jurjevic, where you are proposing to the Minister to propose the Law on the introduction of political prostitution by testing mental health and mental prostitution taxes, and I don't think it's thematically related to this, and I hope that you can initiate the proposal of such a law as sponsors with full, full... Then you'll vote for it, I guess. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But come on, I think we should vote on this budget rebalancing tonight, so we should be focused on the subject. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40614	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so since the Honorable Representative Stazic has called me several times but, of course, if it wasn't as usual with nothing to document, I would just point out to him that in these 15 months, in fact these 18 months, more revenue was charged to the state budget of 8.5 billion kuna, therefore, you were talking about two, it was charged more than 8.5. You also mentioned the other day of your amendments to the fines, then I would ask you, I must not ask you a question as a representative, but I would like to state what it meant for 8 thousand people, in the customs and tax administration in 2001 to cut salaries between 20% and 40%. If you accused me as a minister of not accepting your amendment to increase the fine then I ask the question of this High House and the Croatian public to whom it was in the interest of customs officers and tax collectors in 2001 to cut salaries to 40%, to end the stimulation of supervision in the tax administration, etc., purely for the sake of the company when you are personally calling. And as for the Law of Political Prostitution, I would very much like to work to suggest this proposal because I personally felt what it meant on my skin. Get real elections against the coalition of three parties and then it happens, and then what becomes the greatest laugh that story doesn't end, but it needs to be against the man who's incometing the city's budget 30 million kuna to file a criminal application to collect the coalition. Because accidentally a coalition partner is a lawyer in one process about the 30 million, so when that property is divided, then that policy will be charged, and probably also the Velika Gorica Guard will be incomeing some revenue. But I'm saying a very interesting bill, so maybe after the next election, it'll be good for everyone, maybe we'll get a little bit of a budget, and we'll be able to give it to those to whom it really belongs. But also if I can only combine the revenues, 6 months this year and 6 months next year, the revenues are higher by 6.58, despite what I did not cover up, but I said it clearly and openly this morning, despite certain problems in the first three months, but thank God we founded in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and the Word of the Administration of Great Taxeners. We formed surveillance in the customs administration, so it's very interesting that over the past four years several hundred ships have been imported into temporary imports that no one has controlled it, so they are dealing with certain entrepreneurial activities. But there will be a time when the Croatian Parliament will be informed of all these actions but I am not aware that 100 and some more boats can enter Croatia through the port captainship and that those who were to control it have not been controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40615	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40616	Honorable President, Honorable Minister, Representatives of the Government! First of all, President-in-Office of the Parliament, I will be free to send a sharp protest to you precisely because I feel Uh, in the intonation. .../Intruder: Intonation? ... [[Intruder: What will that blade be for to be prepared for?]] with intonation as in Koprivnica on Koprivnica Day with Jager./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had sharp devices to solve that problem. So because it seems to me that this Assembly is technologically lagging behind the government I was expecting after the government held a telephone debate and a phone vote on rebalancing the budget to budget, to get the budget through SMS. I didn't get it by texting. We got it in an ancient, ancient way. We got it in pepper, in paper form. Not only that, but here we are not allowed to vote with the key, but we have to do a optical vote in a way that, with optical visibility, when enough is available, counts votes in this hall, and then sometimes we have different interpretations about the number of hands raised. So there's probably a problem with optical visibility in the hall itself. But to return to the scale of what we're discussing today, that's the rebalancing of the budget. First of all, I don't doubt that the government has needs and units of local, headship and local self-government during the year to make certain adjustments in revenue and expenditure. It is simply impossible to predict all revenues, it is impossible to predict what they will be and whether they will be and will be achieved in the same amount as or less than it is equally impossible to predict all expenditure especially at the time when certain prices cannot be affected. The problem here may be that something better could have been planned because we warned that there would be, for example, not enough money for pensions and that there wouldn't be enough money to pay. Then she assured us that would be enough. However, what I find quite inconceivable is why everyone is taken well, sometimes or often even to those who should not be taken in order to therefore settle these social needs that objectively exist. And here I really think that a little guilty, guilty, guilty distribution was made here because I think there were a lot of other items that could have been taken from, and that it has no impact on creating assumptions for future development to meet these social needs. I also expected the prime minister to do what he said on the television show, I think it's called Focus where he said that here's how we're going to save on this budget, so one of the key examples was that he was going to save himself on paper, on office material. But when you look at the Government of the Republic of Croatia's budget, then you see that the item of the office paper increases 30%. Now how can the prime minister be convinced that someone else in the government and in the ministries will save if he needs 30% more paper by the end of the year than some others do? Or another absurd that is happening in the office itself, the Prime Minister's office and, therefore, the government's position itself, is being reduced by wages but is increasing for overtime. If there's a need for overtime, then someone needs to be hired. And if there's no need for overtime, then we don't even need to increase the item here. Or ultimately, I suppose there are people in some ministries and in some restaurants who are not used enough and could be redistributed by internal redistribution within the government that we do not have to have the need to increase almost in all ministries items for overtime, overtime work. We expected the same so that there would be much to be done on the professional training of civil servants and tenants, however, here is a Centre for perfecting officials and tenants but the item for functioning this Center is reduced by 70%. So we'll have a beautiful state academy building, but obviously we won't have any, we won't have people running those programs. In his opening statement, the minister also said that the state cannot be a generator for future economic growth so that state investments should move to the private sector and that the state creates a prerequisite for the private sector, private money, foreign investors to go with investments that will generate this future growth. And I really agree with that whole thesis thing. However, this thesis does not correspond to what is said in the budget rebalancing because you have the Ministers item implementation of investment-enhancing measures is reduced by 75%. The rate of implementation of the privatisation of large enterprises is reduced by 97.5%. Encouragement of business infrastructure, subsidisation of craftsmen, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs is reduced by 10%. The promotion of entrepreneurship decreases by 30%. The retraining of the craftsman decreases by 20%. The transmission of environmentally acceptable technologies decreases by 60%. Re-industrialisation, tourism exports decrease by 66%. The Fund's position on development and employment, therefore the fund that should regenerate this future development, is reduced by 10, by 10%. The Fund's position on regional development is reduced equally by 10%. Staff education in the preparation of regional and local development projects is reduced by 72%. Further items of regional development of Požeško-Slavonska, Primorje-Goranska, Moslavačka, Sisak-Moslavačka and Split-Dalmatin County are reduced by 10 to 60%, up to 60%. What is most drastic, which is exactly the prerequisite for creating investment infrastructure above all "greenfield" investment you have the construction of municipal infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones is reduced by 78%. So if we reduce all of this, if we reduce and encourage rural tourism or eliminate it completely, then we don't have any more of those items, then the question is that the local self-government that was counting on this partnership with the state, that the state with even some of the minimum funds will help them to, to buy land, to build a municipal infrastructure and create a prerequisite that they offer truly ownership, urbanally solved and communally equipped zones for foreign investors. Now we see that the state practically gives up everything. What is an even bigger problem is that the tender for these funds has a deadline of 15.6. so by 15.6. they could submit requests and today you have over 450 requests of which probably some will not be resolved by the end of the year and for a reason because there will simply be no money in this state budget. So this thesis that we want the private sector to generate future growth here is being denied in the budget itself. As well as knowledge as another generator for future development, it didn't go very well in this state budget. This is where it was said that it wasn't like that. But gentlemen, if we have abolished an item of 15 million for early learning of a foreign language, then I'm asking what it is. If we've reduced by 70% the promotion of program work with gifted students and students, what is it? If new employment for newly opened school facilities has been abolished, does this mean that no school in Croatia will be open this year? If we've almost shut down the network of schools and projects of one-way work, what is it? We've downgraded our directors and professional associates by 88%. Encouraging associations for extracurricular activities for 10%, etc. etc. So indeed this state budget has been cutting items that shouldn't have been fucked and I agree that there was a need to raise money for pensions and to raise money for salaries and for some other things, but quite certainly these items from which it was downloaded were not to be taken. And I finally have to say something about the constituency I come from. We didn't have anything or we didn't get anything in this budget and you took it from us. So in Koprivnica and Križevci County you reduced the transfer for the development of the water supply system from poor 3 million kuna to 2 million and 250 thousand kuna. This can build 2 kilometers and 250 meters of master water, and Koprivnica-Kristevska County is the county with the lowest availability of the water supply system in the Republic of Croatia, just as you have reduced the water and sea protection item from pollution by 40% and we have to invest nearly 12 billion in the next 7 years to solve the ecological problems we have, precisely what is one of Croatia's wealth, which is water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40617	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40618	Your colleague Mršić says it is impossible to make precise incomes, let alone expenditures. But now the government is denying you. When we discussed the 2004 budget here, you could see that all items were completed and implemented at 100%. Like that. And in the Ministry of Defence, intergenerational solidarity, let's say the cost of phones, that's the ministry in which the most likely phone was introduced, and there's, watch out for phone costs are planned and executed 100% in June and now imagine that one phone call just lasted 10 minutes longer or 15, almost that plan would have been disrupted. It's just that in a second, you knew exactly how many phones to make, so that's what you should know how to do. You know how to do that? It makes the government a technical rebalancing and then sees how much execution it is, and then, after that execution, he writes a plan, and that's the fake of the document he sends to Parliament to discuss it. That's how you do it. That's what you should know how to do. That's what this government knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40619	And another replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I must point out that it's not just the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County that got less money, or that the money for individual projects is being permanently or continuously removed. Similarly, the Varazdin County also went through in the water supply programme. However, what is fascinating in this budget rebalancing is that everything that should go for development from agriculture and the economy is being reduced, and I especially stress this part once more because this is extremely important, when it comes to education, then the problem for newly opened school facilities is no money. I'd like to remind you of where 340 million kunas are coming from for additional payments from civil servants. Obviously, this government hired new people, and we can't get the data on how many new people it is. And also in this budget rebalancing we have 50 million exemptions, less than jubilee rewards, than liabilities under collective agreements, we just don't know why. We paid for our sin, we lost the election in 2000 because we're some things, or 2003 because we didn't do some things. But gentlemen from customs to collective contracts and obligations you have the opportunity to raise your wages and meet your obligations. Which is now a limbi what happened in previous years. Now we're talking about today's time and what's going to happen next year. I think that, as representatives, we still need to talk very clearly and precisely about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40621	Otherwise, I checked on my colleague Mršić, and he did come up with a budget rebalance in an old-fashioned way. He wasn't texted, but he didn't come by e-mail as one of the previous documents. State Secretary Janjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40622	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I will only briefly respond to what you said, which is related to education, and also to the respected Mrs. Sobol who also spoke about it. These items you mentioned, which relate to salaries, therefore, to new employment where finished school facilities or sports halls amounting to 7.5 million kunas, early learning foreign languages 15 million kunas, informing 17 million kunas. So it was all a means of pay. They are now reduced to zero here, and under the common term, wages are now fully available. So if you took a good look now at the salaries we have 2 billion and 567 million, we had 2 billion 567 million kuna, and now it's 2 billion 734. So it's not about removing those items, it's about removing money, it's about actually showing it in this item. Of course foreign language learning started last year, so this is the second year, followed by another. Of course there's new employment here. Likewise, when it comes to new school facilities which also require new employment and of course when it comes to the employment of professional associates, IT professionals, etc. So that's one part, and it's not gone, but it's in the common item, and it's planned for the school year, so to be able to spend the funds, it's not supposed to wait for the 9th month. The second thing you mentioned, I have to admit here really very skillfully, when it comes to a reduction of some amount of a million, two or three million kuna, then you say 3 million kuna. And when it comes to some small amount, then you say so much, so you said that by 10% the amount is reduced when it comes to supporting outside institutional education associations, it was 4 million kunas and now it's 3 and 600. It's 10%, but it's a small amount, so you didn't mention it probably in that number. I have to mention here that the amount of 3 and 600 was last year, and now it's actually reduced by 10% and down to last year's level, so they're not less than they were. Of course some items have been reduced, and now I'm going to say why. That's what I'm saying, please don't interpret it any other way. We have a debt of 238 million kuna per court order for the 2001 regress, of course, that was to be provided. We also have a duty from January 1st, 2002, relating to shift work, which costs 163 million kuna, which is 401 million kuna. Of course, this should also be ensured, and of course, that it can be provided in part by increasing the budget by 243 million kuna, so the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the other part by reducing certain items, making it as painless as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40623	I thank Mr. Secretary of State. Correction of the incorrect quote Mršić. Here's your colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40624	A fellow secretary of state finally corrected himself because he said that an increase in the items for old debts because indeed the item for early learning of a foreign language has been abolished and you did not allow teachers to be employed so that another foreign language could be introduced into some elementary schools. So, these funds are gone, and there are still funds for the regression and for the shift work that exists per debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40625	Thank you. You, on behalf of the Proposer, will, have no correction, but if you want on behalf of the Proposer, of course you can. Here's Secretary of State Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40626	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. They're doing clarity and for the sake of accuracy, I have to say here that it wasn't questioned, so the early learning project of a foreign language began two years ago. He's been going for the second year, so the next year 1005 and 6 goes for the third year, of course, that requires new employment, about 400 foreign language teachers every school year. So, we're going to hire 1200 for these three years, that's not in question, so all the ones that should have been hired we hired them in this year and in the next, next school year. Don't question it, so this is a project that is fully implemented, about early learning of foreign language, so don't mix it with another language since first grade.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40627	I thank Mr. Secretary of State. I ask you, in that case, to report on behalf of the motionor, with explanations of the position of the motionor but not to enter this way in a debate with the MPs so that we can continue the debate normally. Next in line for the debate is Mr. Agent Ante Markov, please welcome colleague Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40628	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the other members of the government. Any debate on economic policy and the budget, of course, is one of these topics, which, for its priority, does not have an export orientation or the preparation of goods for the market, is a missed policy. Each rebalancing contains elements of responsibility for why the rebalancing occurred and which are the reasons that led to the failure of those effects or definitions for which the Government has defined itself. Of course, sooner or later every Croatian government and this government will have to answer very simple questions, how much the fiscal potential of this country, how many citizens and the economy can achieve revenue in the state budget, how much potential they are, and how much other important the answer in which and who wants to be the beneficiary of these funds, and how much of the most important criteria that must be met, which is equal to the commitment of development, means creating a new value and fulfilling the constitutional task, which is to help those who cannot achieve or otherwise have already achieved that advantage, and the Constitution guarantees them that they will have to take care of themselves and their own. These two categories are often being chased and the government has been said to have reversed the position of development by social measures, or that the budget is one or the same. The budget must be both developed and social, why, because it's two related things. If development does not create the potential of a new excess value in the next period then, of course, there will be a threat to the social position or all of those structures no matter what they call them. Of course very things are simple. When society spends more than it creates then there's only one solution, you have to be in debt, you have to find the difference that someone is making peace. Of course, this refers to the reasons why we have a high growth ino of debt, precisely because we have to carry out the task because consumption is and is spent more than is created. And in the projection, we're doing it ourselves, so we still can't predict why. Well precisely because, of course, any line of slowdown in the borrowings carried out in the monetary sphere by the Croatian National Bank shows real shortcomings in the supervision system. Why, because when someone is short of money, they will find ways to reach these funds through a bank broker, the task of the monetary protector of the Croatian National Bank is to try to slow down debt growth without harming the interests of the economy. Because it is important to remind that Croatia is the leading country in the European Union in terms of the duty of individual citizens who have crossed over 58% refers to the duty of individual citizens, the average in the European countries and the new Europe is moving to a maximum of 23%. Therefore, we have exhausted the level of consumption as far as the individual citizen is concerned. Why did the intermediary bank choose more for him than the economy says more about the economy, it says that we did not have an economic policy, exactly the one on the trail of the export perspective, therefore, the only thing we can do is rely on growth, development and creation of a new value, because this is the only answer in which we will balance not only the budget but also the balance of payments which is also in the constant deficit, which is almost as follows but is approaching another danger, except for this external debt which is growing at that speed but has its dynamics and is increasingly involved by a bank which cannot even be called a public debt user but has private debt elements in it but is one professional topic in which even experts cannot agree, so that the external debt structure is different and the central state reduces its potential in maximising external debt. In addition to external debt, there is also an internal debt or debt that is not paid by government or para-state funds by its suppliers. This is equally dangerous debt and it generates more of those results that were fully expressed in early 2000 to remove them within about 12 months and create a positive atmosphere on the inside. What is necessary and what can be read from the incomes of the business or the operating expenditure of this budget. Not having a real or targeted commitment in such a way as to increase budget values in revenue without them being shown in that stereotype, we will strengthen the financial police, we will introduce more control on excise duties, we will increase supervision of economic operators, all of this is already known and it has its own set framework. You can't go beyond that if you don't want to bring economic operators into a position that they can't do business and that's not our goal, of course. Therefore, the only answer that needs to be read is development. Development is called in the modern world of knowledge. Without knowledge and excellence, of course, there is no future. No development, no perspective, no exports, no Europe. All fiction and unfortunately investment in knowledge is almost invisible in this budget or more visible in the items of reduction than in the items that should have been spoken in favour of the argument of knowledge, excellence and everything you can compete with, which is the only measure you can measure and what you can take as a serious criterion. In this context, of course, I will give myself the right to say and what Croatia has as its macroeconomic position and does not benefit from existing relations. It's that tourism as a market. It is a market where gentlemen dears can only be affected by that segment that we do not now control in terms of completely non-selective imports of everything and everything spent on tourism demand and which definitely knocks down the images of Croatian tourism because you will allow the images of tourist tourism to knock down the fact that you spend the products that our client from Germany saw as bofl goods in his self-services and wait for him in Croatia. Of course, the development of the excellence of Croatian agricultural production, the food industry and everything we can offer and sell at home in Croatia. It is estimated that only with a 30% procedure and at this point according to calculations, counterpart Ljubo Jurcic was more concerned with this methodology of the impact of tourism on the rest of the economy. Unfortunately, over 65% of the total input inputs in tourism are assumed to mean everything that happens and what is waiting for the tourist in Croatia is from exports. In the event that only 30 per cent were proposed in this House one bill that went with the thesis. Almost 2 billion euros could be covered in the first year which would absorb Croatian tourism from domestic products if we had them, produced them and organised ourselves seriously. Therefore, I have just given a way of proposing how to increase business income by 2 billion euros and 2 billion euros can be said by Jesus but we have become a market for other people's products. Both Germany, Italy and other suppliers of Croatian tourism do not say Jesus, but they say thank you Jesus for having an unreasonable people who made it possible for us to sell our products on their market and only place bofl and bad goods and they don't understand it. Therefore, to conclude this budget and this rebalancing shows that Croatia has potential but that there is no knowledge, that we are all talking about a strategy but that we do not have a strategy for the goal or how to reach that goal. This budget speaks of inefficientness and in ways of managing both economic resources and resources that we need to deal with as a future member of the European Union. Therefore, knowledge and excellence are a prerequisite for the growth of the economy, for the growth of living standards and for the reduction of all the burdens that burden us to such an extent that we can end up in a way that we certainly do not want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40629	Thank you, fellow Markov. I'm asking you not to throw it out of the bench. Next up is Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go, colleague Lalic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40630	Thank you, Vice President. Well, there aren't any ministers, and I don't have to greet them either, so I welcome my colleagues and colleagues. I will begin the debate on the 2005 Rebalance of Budget with the People's Proverbs "Attention of Boots". As we discussed the budget, a number of opposition clubs predicted a near rebalancing because the budget was unrealistic. He was neither social nor developmental, as a result of the lack of a vision of the government as well as where Croatia should lead, but he was therefore pre-election. There were presidential elections, but the budget didn't help. There were local elections, and that budget didn't do much good, but that's why political trade helped. And now that all this is over, we're going to rebalance the budget. It ran out of funds because revenues are not realised as planned, thus reducing the income plan by 786 million, 243 thousand kuna. They drastically subdued tax and excise incomes. The reasons are double. The plan was unrealistic on purpose or consequences of ignorance, I don't know. We have to ask ourselves how much this is and the consequences of a financial indiscipline that is simply rising together with indifference. The lack of the state's will to establish financial discipline will lead to the situation of 2000 when we were forced to adopt a Law on the collection of outstanding claims on the basis of taxes, contributions and customs due to 23.5 billion kuna. I remind you that the state has never charged those claims. Now it's knocking on that door again and everything is justified so the state is the biggest debtor and until it settles its debt cycle of debt and claims in Croatia cannot be closed. And the government says in the 2005 income projection, the factors included also a planned increased control of the collection of income from individual taxes, primarily value added tax and excise duties. Based on the experience we've experienced so far, there won't be any sharper control, so we'll probably have another rebalancing by the end of the year due to the underage of income. The resulting revenue cuts have a cut in costs, so let's see where and how. The government's plane, by order of the prime minister or by his approval, will continue to fly irrationally but fulfilling the special wishes of certain members of the government and its supporters and will spend 24 million 440 thousand, which is however 277,000 less than the plan. It's obvious that habits and commos don't want to change no matter how much the budget burdened them. It should be recalled that this same plane in 2003 cost €11 billion and now 13.5 billion more. By comparing this item, which is exclusively in the function of a committee of members of the Government and some individuals is €24.5 million and let's say the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, whose task is to coordinate state bodies and implement a policy to prevent drug abuse and its budget is €5.5 million, the amount is reduced almost equal. This is enough to indicate how sincerely the government wants to fight the evil that the Deputy Prime Minister called modern society's cancer in front of cameras and journalists. This information and this comparison exposes all hypocrisy and Phariseeism contained in expressions of concern over the increase in both the number of addicts and the number of deaths. The conclusion also completes the fact that funds are being reduced in the item "Youth policy". The same fate of the reduction of funds is experienced by the item "The implementation of measures of family and population policy" as well as the term "Help for programmes aimed at children and young people". Support for the social empowerment programme for families, young people, children, and disabled persons is reduced by as much as 2 million kunas. Therefore, the Deputy Prime Minister promises special care for young people, for the protection of families, for people with disabilities, and declares itself to be a pro-intellectual policy but to implement promises and possible programmes which, as a minister, should have funds, are being reduced. For an effective intelligence policy is not enough for a third and any further child, legal maternity leave of three years. An increase in the number of live births will not trigger an average child's allowance of 250 kuna. Nevertheless, such a low allowance reduces the funds by 58 million kuna. These data completely dissipate the glamour and misery of the government's most intelligent policies. There's nothing left of great promises. No greater concern of the state is for an older and powerless population. In support of the intergenerational solidarity programme, the planned funds of three million kunas are reduced by 918 thousand. What do you say? Only possible, children, young, disabled, family and older, therefore, the most needed on the sidelines are public concerns, if so it would be fair not to pretend to care and care that it does not have. I've been discussing the budget from the aspect of the region I come from, therefore, Slavonia. I then said that the government is responsible for the irregular development of the regions in Croatia. I said, quote: "It will be your fault that there will be a movement in Slavonia that will want to start Slavonia as a region and then as an autonomous province."and it happened. Those to whom my claim was ridiculous at the time are today the wearers of this idea, but despite that and even more what I did not say, you continue your wrong policy. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is directly reflected in Slavonia and it is reduced by 130 million kuna, most of which 80 million kuna refers to agriculture and forestry. The funds for rural development, the promotion of agricultural production and intervention on the market are reduced. The agriculture minister strongly announced an increase in investments in multi-annual plantations, which would mean a decrease in imports in the medium term. And then when only some of us believed this rebalancing, the funds were reduced by a total of 16 million kunas. Investments in bovine animals that need to be encouraged to develop have also been announced pompously. Now the funds are cut by 20 million kuna or 50% of the planned funds. My dear cattlemen, you have twice as much money because by importing your milk and meat your cattle for Croatia has now become excess. Milkers continue to pour milk into the rivers because for the Government of the Republic of Croatia milk from the Republic of the former Yugoslavia is more quality than yours. Everything indicates that Slavonia in this country is too much. Some also say unnecessary burden. Yeah, it's probably because we stopped being a promised country, only incompetents are the value of Slavonic potentials. For a year and a half, Slavonca is convinced that for Croatia, a strategic project is the construction of a irrigation system. New, all strategic projects for the Croatian government do not have the same priority. Somewhere they're realized and somewhere like Slavonia, year after year, they just promise and delay. And this rebalancing of this project reduces the funds by 47% or 14 million kuna. Several more generations of Slavons will not have drinking water because the government is reducing one quarter of the resources for both the Eastern Slavonia regional water pipeline and for the construction of the Slavonian Podravina water supply system. Mr. Minister of Finance who you are not here because we do not deserve to have you here and you are obviously convinced that Slavonia is an unnecessary burden to Croatia. I object to your opinion and to your proposal for budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40631	Thank you, Mrs. Lalic. Mr. Secretary of State came forward on behalf of the motionor. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40632	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, just a brief replica of Mrs. Lalic, the distinguished parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40633	You must, on behalf of the Proposer, state simply the position of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40634	I can only say this when it comes to the reduction in family policy that no project has been reduced, or no project has been abolished, but that there have been essentially savings in terms of reducing material costs, and this is the whole reduction. In the case of a child's allowance, there is sufficient means for implementation under the legal rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40635	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Lalic, please welcome colleague Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40636	Mr. Secretary of State, I said that the average child's allowance is 250 kuna, you're cutting that item by 38.7 million kuna and you and I agree that 250 kuna won't increase the number of newborns. If you want to be responsible for leading the most intelligent policy, if you don't just want to cry over that in 50 years we will have 35,000 Croats less, then it would be our turn to increase the child's allowance. From those other items, the achievement of the youth programme, the protection of families, women etc., you send an ugly message, those 100, 200 thousand kuna, 250 thousand kuna, ma cannot save the ministry, can't save the budget but you send a message that on those funds you don't want to save enough and you don't want to realize programs, projects you don't actually have.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40637	Thank you. Next, we'll continue the debate. Next is Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go, fellow Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40638	Thank you, esteemed Vice President, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Changes and additions to the state budget are done as has been said in the explanation of the Government of Croatia's proposal when new knowledge and change of macroeconomic indicators took place. These changes at the time of the 2005 budget, which was at the end of last year in the November month, could not be predicted and in the first place because the real growth of gross domestic product for 2004 was still estimated and served as a basis for the projection of budgetary revenues. On the other hand, in the international environment, according to the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission in 2005, a further recovery of the world economy is expected but rather a slower pace. In the global economy, the real growth rate of gross domestic product in 2004 was 5% and 4.2% is forecasted for 2005. The European Union also envisions a slowdown in economic growth and the rate of gross domestic product is 2%. The macroeconomic indicators in Croatia after stagnation in the first quarter suggest recovery and accelerated economic growth in the second quarter. Based on the increase in industrial production in April of 6.3% and in May of 8.2%, retail trade to little 5.6% and other indicators is projections of the increase in gross domestic product at a rate of 3.7%. It's true a somewhat slower growth than was planned at the end of last year. So, slowing economic activity as a reflection of macroeconomic and international conditions, I mean Germany, Italy and Slovenia, which are the main trading partners of the Republic of Croatia and also the largest potential sources of tourists. It was the first reason for changing the budget. Another reason is the general need, the change in the structure of expenditure. At the time of the adoption of the budget, it was difficult to predict the exact expenditure resulting from the new legislation. Therefore, the proposed changes on the expenditure side are necessary in order to enable certain items to be implemented and to maintain transparency of the budgetary balance. According to the proposed changes, the revenue plan is reduced by 786 million kuna and this means increasing revenues by 6.3% instead of initially planned increases by 7.3%. If revenue by species is analysed more carefully as they are proposed in the amending budget proposal, so they are achieved in the first 5 months of this year, the effects of government policy measures are clearly seen. For example, tax reliefs introduced by this government resulted in slower income growth from income tax. These measures, tax reliefs have affected the reduction of the tax base for tax accounting, particularly in the case of lower incomes and those in areas of special state concern. On the other hand, many more citizens have filed a tax application for 2004 and have obtained the right to return taxes. As a result, the accelerated return on income tax after citizens' final tax returns for 2004 recorded a decline of 0.6% from income tax for the period from 1 to 5 months 2005. Despite continued return on income tax on this basis, income from income tax is expected to rise by 3.2% by the end of the year compared to 2004. Also, the revenues from the contributions charged on gross earnings in the first half of this year have increased 6.4% and by the end of the year it is realistic to expect that their growth will be 6.8%. The result is an increase in gross wages and employment. From these indicators, it is easy to conclude that this government is leading a good policy. That she's socially engaged and developmental. Let me just explain. Social engagement is seen as falling in income tax as well, and is also seen as a result of increased remuneration primarily to vulnerable population groups. Also, the increase in income from profit tax. For 33.7% in the first half of this year, it shows that the businessmen continued a positive business trend from last year. The law on the regulation and control of coffee traffic has just been passed, the introduction of coffee stamps should give a financial effect of 70 million kuna. This means that coffee tax revenues would rise by 26.3% compared to 2004. These measures will result in a double positive impact, increased control of coffee traffic and revenue collection in both the budget and, more importantly, the grey economy in the area will be curbed. There has been no significant change on the expenditure side. A reduction in the positions where savings have occurred which will not have a major impact on the regular activity of the beneficiaries of the budget as well as on the positions of some capital projects that are objectively not going to be able to start or end by the end of this year. At the same time, additional funding was to be provided for payment of the rights guaranteed by law. The increase in expenditure was proposed for pensions, rights of defenders, additional maternity leave and equipment for newborn children, for salaries consistent with government policy. This proposal shall provide for the necessary financial resources for this proposal. I think the government did the right thing by sending Parliament a proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for 2005 in due time. The final proposal for amending and supplementing the 2005 State budget law for adoption as this could arise after the annual vacations in a timely and transparent, timely and transparent manner, transparent implementation of certain budgetary positions. Finally, I believe that this proposal reflects our possibilities and that it could be realistic and I propose that the amendment and addition of the State budget for 2005 as well as the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40639	Thank you. Next up is Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go, colleague Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40640	Madam Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, and here is the debate on this amendment and the addition of the State budget. It is evident that there is not enough money for all the items in the budget, although this budget is growing every year. And obviously it means that it's not enough for us for everything we want, which we objectively have needs. But I would say here that, in fact, for this state budget, all of us and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could contribute. Because this is how I get the impression that actually this budget is viewed as something imaginary from which we all need to get something and everybody takes something and that if we can avoid paying nothing. So it's a common phenomenon that we pay minimum personal incomes to avoid paying contributions, to hire on black. Betraying the goods without a bill and so on. And as long as that's the case, and as long as we don't stop it, every government will have problems with the State budget, no matter what we discuss here. The opinion here is that with this Budget, given that in the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare there is a decrease of 226 million 441 million, that in fact the state has stopped being a social state, that the crisis is in social care, but I would make it clear here from all of these indicators really does not stand. So I'd just take out some of them. Let's say the social care centres in the 2004 budget were 179 thousand 267, not to read these, tiny ones, and now it means no matter what the reduction was, 192 million 980. So about 13 million more. Then the aid and care allowance in 2004 was 267 million, now proposed, remains 270. Then one-time cash aid execution in 2004. 65 grand, now it's 69 grand. So about 4 million more. Then a personal disability. Implementation 2004 151 million, now it's 152. Then also for other social benefits and to help 216 million 2004. It's 223 now. So 6 million more than it was in 2004. Then the maintenance aid also of 484 million we now have 22 million in addition to this reduction of funds. So the rest is at 507 million. Then it was the same way we're saving on the most endangered, so let's say child care and youth with behavioral disorders... The execution in 2004 was 51, 58 million 859. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, despite the downsizing of 694 thousand, we have 11 million more or 69 million and something. But if we look at what the reduced items are, I don't think anyone reasonable can object to such reductions in the items. This is, for example, office material and other material expenditures of 200 thousand kuna. Material and raw materials 100 thousand kuna. Small inventory, 80,000 kuna car. Communal service 200 thousand kuna. Well, I don't know who's not up for that kind of savings and a cut in funds. Then, let's say, outside of our own family in 2004, there were 263 million now 23 million more. It means $286 million. And so on. And so on. Let's say child care without proper parental care where we were particularly sensitive in 2004 was 70 million, now that the reduced funds for 411 thousand kuna remained 80 million. But let's look again at where these are reduced funds. It's a tiny inventory and a car of 411 thousand kuna. So does anyone have anything against saving themselves on a tiny inventory and car tires? Then we take care of the mentally ill adults. In 2004, the execution of 103 million in addition to being reduced by 6 million still remains 14 million more than it was in 2004 117 million and we see here that the savings were mostly paid on energy and other items. And you'd just point out, let's say the care of the physically and mentally damaged children in 2004, the execution of 217 million, now we have 30 million more, 246 million, and again the savings we have for the salaries in special conditions is 800 thousand less, then a million and 100 again a tiny inventory and car tires. These really car tires stretch all over the place, that's interesting. Then something would look back, and here, as we see from this, means that the funds are not in social care, they're smaller than they're supposed to be, but they're between 5% and 20% higher than they were in the last year, and that none of the rights were abolished so that they shouldn't send a bad message from this assembly and worry about that group that is so sensitive. Then we'd look back a little bit on health care. I'm sad, for example, that education at primary health care level where small funds of $150,000 were projected were reduced because we didn't implement certain projects. I would really like to say here that all of us who understand something in the budget or have met in our institutions or in the units of local self-government know that the budget is implemented according to our projects and programmes, that there are items in the budget but if we fail to achieve them and achieve them through the project, through the programme, through the construction of those items remain unrealised. So we have here an improvement in the provision of emergency medical care is something reduced by 70 thousand kuna, and it refers to intellectual and personal services and compensation for the work of representative bodies because there is still no network of emergency medical aid. This is all a reminder to all those who are involved in repairing the situation. And then, often, it was also pointed out here that as far as the transplants were concerned that the program had been suspended, that there was less and less funds for it, so I would say that there was an increase, to increase the number of donors and to improve the transplant in 2004, implemented by 660 million not to read these other figures, now it is predicted that 890, 660 thousand is now 890 thousand but 210 thousand is a reduction and refers to official travel. So 200 grand savings on official travel. Then here is that I no longer bother about it, I would point out here the reorganisation of the hospital system where the same significant increase in funds was achieved where in 2004, it means 369 thousand, and now it provides for 2 million and 360 thousand and I believe it will be used to reform the health system that we really need. And I'd like to point out in particular two items that are particularly interesting from my point of view. It's the Croatian Institute of Mental Health. A million kunas were foreseen, and now 100 thousand are left, because the Croatian Institute for Mental Health was founded and what is really necessary, because we see now and in primary health care that include mental health institutions, or mental health centres. We don't have standards for space, equipment or personnel, and we also have palatable concerns where we have more than 16% of the population for over 65 years and we really need these programs, and here we see that quite slowly this is going that the funds are reduced, but simply, but it's saved on representative bodies and on such services. So the savings are made, but in any case, they're programs that deserve our support and that we realize them, but I don't think it's a lack of the ministry, but a lack of all those who actually participate in these programs. And to conclude, this budget rebalance doesn't mean we stopped being a social state. However, all this data shows that that is exactly what we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40641	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Lino Cervar. Here's your colleague, Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40642	Thank you. Madam President of the Croatian Parliament and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in my debate, I'd kind of touch the position of sports at the Ministry of Education and Science, and to be honest, I'd be a lot happier and I'd rather talk about budget rebalancing, of course, in the sports section, if we had passed the Sport Act in the meantime. I'm convinced that he'll be brought to fall because it would actually be in my court at the very end of time. Otherwise, they may be entitled to those who claim that without the State Sport Administration, this law will not see the light of day simply because it would definitely become, stop being so. A sticker that doesn't seem to have a future, or better tomorrow. I once said to leave a sport on the edges of everyday life, the sorrow of a nation. Because sports is one of the brightest points of modern culture if education teaches a man, sports raises a man and is the best means to encourage a spirit. Therefore, on behalf of all athletes, employees, amateurs, professionals, school children and student youth, please, but also ask that the issue of sports in our country be resolved systematically. The status of sport in our society is best read from his position. All the way to the budget rankings and past government and current government sport takes the last place, it is at the bottom, although sport is little in our country concerned with 30% of the population. It may be said that at this point we even have a better situation in sport because, for example, in 2001, sports was separated in our country 1 euro and 82 lipe per capita while at the same time. in Cyprus seven times or 12 euros and 98 limes. Of course, that comment is not necessary. In 2005 about 105 million kunas from sources are forecasted for sport in the state of Croatia, meaning from the budget, from games of happiness and marketing. But still, but still the sport in our country gets 11 times less than the Ministry of Culture or culture. Or to be even more picturesque, sport gets, that means the budget of sport in the state of Croatia is half of the Croatian National Theatre. But on this budget, and in this budget, I have to say, it was originally projected 70 million, and now it's 62 million. This means less than 8 million, and it was taken from both school sports societies and kindergartens and open school projects and even something in prevention. But what could calm us down, though, is that the Croatian Olympic Committee that serves 69 national alliances has not touched Bjellolasica, and what is looking forward to giving more funding to the Sports Alliance of Disabilities. In spite of all this, in order not to put too much burden on the present, I would like to say again and again that we have to solve the issue of sports in our country systematically, that we must pass a law on sports, because otherwise I do hold that there is every reason to seek simply a state sports administration that will be able to systematically address the issue of sports in our country and to conclude, investing in sport imposes the need to be healthy, better and more successful people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40643	I thank my colleague Cervar. The next is the debate by Mrs. Bisserka Perman. Here you go, fellow Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40644	I thank Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the government. In Croatia, in the budgetary process, the Parliament does not have the place and role it deserves to be seen, for example, in the text published in one daily list, I quote: "After the proposed rebalance has been harmonised between the Government's resolutions and has received the support of HDZ coalition partners, all the conditions for sending it to the other side of Mark's square have been met." And I would add, why should it even have to come to the other side of Mark's square when the amount of the rebalancing has already been redistributed as it has been for HDZ and its coalition partners and Parliament has almost no impact on how the appropriations will be redistributed. First of all, I want to look at the budget as a whole, there are one-off amounts of items and other expenditure relating to employees, services, unremarked operating expenditures, unremarked financial expenditures and exceptional estimated expenditures. Of course, there are extraordinary situations and needs that arise during the financial year but are they really so much that they require a total amount of 2 billion kuna, which is an increase of 140 million from 2004 and 50 million from the initially planned amount for this year. Already mentioned today, the point of small inventory and car tyres is just over 26 million which is almost 8 million more than last year, if only half of that amount of waste on the car's tires turns out that this year the citizens of Croatia will buy between 5 and 8.5 thousand tyres, it turns out that the production of tyres in Croatia could be a very profitable activity that could reduce the number of unemployed. Furthermore, the item of office equipment and furniture is true reduced by 11 million compared to the original plan for this year but it is still almost 30 million more than in last year. Are our offices really that empty and unequipped? If we add up the items relating to administration and governance, it turns out that they are over 750 million higher than in 2004, although for some 30 million less than the original plan for this year. If we remember the government's plan to cut administrative costs or administration as a whole, I wonder why this rebalancing is not used for this. As we have heard more than once during today's debate, the budget is, by the usual practice of this government, non-transparent, and I would illustrate that with some examples. In the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship last year, shipbuilding subsidies amounted to around 428 million kuna and were highlighted by individual users. This year, 405 million were foreseen and the rebalancing amount was further reduced by 20 million, and only the aggregate item from which it cannot be read as much as it is intended. In the same ministry last year there were 37 items relating to entrepreneurship programmes for farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and this year only 8. Of course, the aggregate items from which it is also impossible to read for what is and how much is intended. Rebalancing reduced the total amount of these items by 10 million. Many reduced items also appear for no valid reason, I will give only some examples. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction provides for funds to monitor the quality of the sea from 225 thousand kuna to 175 thousand. We are constantly boasting about our beautiful and blue seas, putting such hopes into tourism, and we are not ready to invest 225 thousand kunas, and we take 50 thousand from such a small sum. The comparisons at the same ministry were not a problem with rebalancing an additional 100,000 kuna on the item maintenance of the rolling stock because it appears that there were no well anticipated previously 2 million 160 thousand kuna. In the transition to the model of sustainable development, a significant role belongs precisely to the state and its institutions, which must make it easier for the situation to be a worse resource within this ministry to be aimed at promoting and informing about the protection of the environment and sustainable development are reduced from projected 2 million and 270 thousand to only 820 thousand kuna. The reduction of the estimated amounts in certain items indicates how many rebalancing creators were led by short-term interests, with almost no regard to the long-term perspective. As we know the price of oil as a basic energy rises from day to day, as one of the response to the energy crisis occurs a model of sustainable development, one of the basic requirements of this model is that energy must be used much more efficiently than is the case so far with industry and societies being driven primarily through renewable energy. And what makes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare its citizens better for the years to come, it seems nothing. The rebalancing at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship brings among other changes, the planned 600,000 kuna intended for efficient use of energy has been reduced to 450 thousand. Funds intended for programmes and renewable energy projects have also been reduced from 350 to 295 000 kuna. If you take into account the fact that nearly 2 million kuna is spent on official travel only in the same ministry, it seems to me that it was not necessary to take the funds to such important projects and that the rebalancing could have been better allocated. And now that I as a colleague of Cervar just before, look at the part of the rebalancing that refers to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, that is, the head of sports. The planned amount for sport for this year has been reduced from the original 71 million kuna to approximately 62 million, of which are the most reduced sports promotion activities at universities and universities to 37 and 50% respectively, the prevention of sports in schools and school sports programs during summer and winter holidays, the open school for 50%, the promotion of sports in school sports clubs gets 20% less funding, the development of a body-health culture course for sports departments is reduced to 1.7% while sports promotion activities in kindergartens and dormitories, sports programmes to prevent addiction, standards for the construction of sports facilities and the purchase and creation of professional and sports literature funds are completely abolished. Non-swimming training in schools is reduced to 58% of the planned amount but is therefore increased by 100% in the same item, in the same activity. I wonder why. Taking into account the fact that physical activity and socializing through sport are significant factors for the formation of young people’s personality and for their health, and we are aware of the growing problems of violence and addiction among young people, I wonder why such restrictions, especially when it is known that the funds for sport in Croatia are both insufficient and at the lowest level of budget separation, if we take into account Europe’s countries and this year, the total weight of the budget is 0.6 permeated. For these reasons, I also join those who will not be able to support this amount of budget rebalancing, and I hope that there will still be better allocations in some future rebalances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40645	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Perman. Next up for debate is Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go, colleague Pavlic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40646	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished gentlemen from the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! Here, let me briefly refer to the Budget Rebalance Proposal for this year 2005. At first, I can say that I will not support this budget rebalance, since I did not support the 2005 budget itself. Also, I think this budget rebalance is going in the direction that it should go in so I don't think I can support it. But I'll just list a few important reasons why I can't support him. One of the important reasons here has already been said a lot about the economy and has been passed by many representatives of the evaluations, so this budget is not developmental, i.e. It will not affect the functioning of our economy and what will certainly not affect is therefore strengthening the competitiveness of our economy. It was precisely the problem, therefore, that the competition problem was warned by the National Competitiveness Council, which submitted an annual report on Croatia's competitiveness for 2004 a week or a month ago, warning of a decline in the relative position of Croatia's competitiveness. It's a fall from 2003. Therefore, it was noted that in 2004, much worse places were taken to compare these competitiveness indices compared to 2003. And it's also been warned that the past year, two special advances... and the competitiveness of growth was recorded by Romania and Bulgaria, which almost equalised themselves with Croatia or had passed it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's what this particular data tells us. So, rank in 2004 compared to 2003. So we have this combined index of competitiveness of growth that in 2003 was 53 or took 53 places to make it 61st place. So here we have special variables. That's technological development, that's where we fell from 41st to 46th place, innovation, that's where we fell from 48th to 49th place, transfer technology, that's where we fell from 43rd to 48th place, the macro-economic environment is more unfavourable, we fell from 55th to 59th place, the stability was compromised, we fell from 51st to 60th place. And what is particularly highlighted today in numerous discussions is also when it comes to the unproductiveness of public expenditure. Non-productivity is rising. We fell from 59th to 80th place. Our credit rating also fell from 49th to 51st. The quality of public institutions also fell from 67th to 76th place, the judiciary, the quality of the judiciary, which is therefore assessed according to special criteria, from 81rd to 89th place, corruption fell. It's grown. We fell into the corruption index from 54th to 61st place. And so there's a combined index of business competitiveness where we also took a worse position, we fell ten places from 62nd to 72nd, and that index makes up business and business strategy where we fell from 65th to 72nd. And also, there's the quality of the business environment where we fell from 58th to 70th place. This report states that the causes of our poor competitiveness lie above all in the poor quality of public institutions but in the weaknesses of company quality. This combined macro and micro source of low competitiveness suggests that Croatia's competitiveness cannot be improved by isolated sectoral measures and that measures are needed to include both the state and the business community. So, here's what I've been quoting a little bit, but that's why the report was made by the most prominent experts, and they're also familiar with the government. And that's why I'm a little surprised the government didn't react. This report was made and published before this budget rebalancing. Here, for example, we have an item that is currently talking about competitiveness. We have an entry "A Programme to improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy" known as 20 keys. Instead, on the basis of this report, the item increased it. Thus, the budget provided for too little than 2.5 million kuna. We asked in the budget rebalancing so it would be more, but it's not left now, but it's reduced to 700 thousand kuna. So by 70%, the reduction in this item is what we're kind of reading is the attitude to this problem. So, instead of responding positively to this report, that investment in strengthening the competitiveness of our economy has been strengthened exactly the opposite, either the items remain the same or the items are a reduction. I don't think that was supposed to happen. Let me just now present some of the amendments that I have submitted to this budget rebalance. It is difficult to expect normally from the experience that these amendments will pass but still to warn about some of the problems that will arise from year to year, unfortunately in the increasingly difficult looking shape and example, and I think it would be good to think about the following calculations to use them. Here, I have suggested as well as some fellow parliamentary representatives that the items for compensation for damage caused by elemental disasters be increased. Currently, a 6 million kuna item is reserved in the budget. I suggest that this item rises to 50 million kunas because over the past weeks and months we have witnessed that many parts of the Republic of Croatia have been affected by weather accidents and such disasters that have not actually been recorded in these parts, which have been pronounced and which have caused great material damage to our residents, farmers, farmers, etc. I think the government would have to act in this rebalancing as well in future rebalancing. Because unfortunately that's what awaits us in the future. Here in the County of Međimurje we, unfortunately, made a decision within two days to declare the elemental disasters. One for the 27th of June, when one of the elemental storm storms with fighting occurred, in part of the area of Međimurje County, and the other day we witnessed another natural disaster in another part of Međimurje, where a decision on the declaration of an elementary accident was also declared. I think that already in Croatia a few dozen such elemental disasters have been declared, so people will have the right to a certain, even a minimum fee, but with these five million, nothing will be said to them so. Also in the state hydrometerological institution, funds for defence against fighting have been reduced by 50%. We also propose the amendment to return the funds planned to build Kotoriba elementary school on a million kuna as foreseen in the 2005 budget, unfortunately they are reduced to only 100 thousand kuna and we are afraid down actually that the works will stop, so far the funds have been invested by both municipalities and the county and now the state has to be involved, i.e. the state. The ministry, if the work stops, we're afraid there'll be damage to the open construction site instead of the work being continued as agreed. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40647	I thank my colleague Pavlic. Next up, Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here are my colleagues, Chicic-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40648	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed promoters. Unfortunately, I have to find that the proposal for this state budget is quite lacking. I cannot read the revenue and cost of the funds, and as a parliamentary representative, I would ask you to submit data on outstanding commitments together with the proposal. So let's start with the presentation of this rebalance of the state budget. At first sight, there is no picture of the implementation of the state budget for the period from January to June 2005, both in the income and on the expenditure side. In order to obtain a realistic picture of the current state budget and public finances in general, and a realistic projection of the possibility of achieving this planned rebalancing of the state budget for 2005, it is necessary to complete the presentation of the implementation precisely in the first six months of this year. The reality of achieving a 3.7% growth rate that has already been reduced to 4.4 compared to the one planned for this year. After achieving the GDP in the first quarter, only 1.8% are based on tax revenues and inflows from the base of the contribution. How the government intends to compensate for economic growth in the remaining three quarters and reaching this 3.7%. Why there is no investment in construction and economic investment and growing positions, for example, for the salaries of civil servants. The questionable achievement of the receipts for the financing account unless the privatisation revenue of 4 billion kuna is realised and how it will reflect the debt in the event of the same achievement. If you were in charge abroad, that would mean an increase in foreign debt. If in turn they were in debt in the country, it would mean absorbing the credit potential of banks rather than providing them with an economy. The funds dropped the programme loan for structural adjustments, the IBRD loan of 990 million kuna can only be withdrawn permanently if structural reforms are launched. In the domain of health care, Croatian railways, agriculture, shipbuilding and such that this budget does not provide in its implementation. This rebalance plans to cut funds for capital projects, e.g. for the acquisition of non-financial assets, was reduced by 295 million on the first page of the budget. All ongoing projects, partly funded by the credit funds of development banks, are slowing down and respect for deadlines is questionable, the realisation of the contract ratified right here in this House. For example, the loan... financing the basic infrastructure in areas of special state care has been achieved in only 30% of the withdrawal of credit funds and it is known that the programme needs to be completed by the end of 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how much of that will we be able to realize. The same situation is also the case with loans from CEBA for the construction of homes, schools and construction of island infrastructure, from the IBRD loan covering the cost of projects, Adriatic projects and waste water treatment. What about the KSV, the facial-rail reconstruction project? If the deadlines and withdrawals of the means of realization... do not respect the given terms and conditions will also be questionable to withdraw funds from available pre-accession funds,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] no funds from pre-accession funds have been planned in rebalancing, although they have been spoken of here on many occasions in these two years, and very often. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rebalancing of this budget also reduces the funds for reconstruction and the Croatian Railways, especially on corridor 5C, and that they are rerouting to funds, excuse me, and that they are rerouting to reconstruction funds especially in corridor 5C. We are witnessing that Belgrade is gradually taking over the regional air traffic centre and there is no word on the development of Zagreb and Dubrovnik airports. Our mouths are full of flood protection and Croatian water resources on this item are getting smaller and smaller. How are we going to reorganize healthcare when we take down 50 million kuna in this item? The tourism we are talking about as a strategic branch reduces its resources on the rural tourism item from 9 million kuna to 0 kuna. In short, we can conclude that new projects are not even started and the planned funds are channelled into subsidies. Therefore, capital investments are being reduced and subsidies are increasing. The review of this budget does not show what is happening to outstanding liabilities. Therefore, to conclude, this rebalancing of the state budget did not show the implementation of the budget from January to June 2005, there was no indication of any outstanding commitments, although it is known that in June of this year, payment findings were not carried out but that the accounts were standing and did not meet the obligations. Whether all expenditure in the public sector is shown in this budget. For example. Mr. Minister, where is the construction of the Rebro Hospital shown and is there a project to build apartments for the Ministry of Labour involved? That's what we were in that last term thought to be such a disastrous thing if something was financed by this budget method. When the budget was adopted, it was said that the budget would be developmental and social. Is it just social now and how developmental it really is? I certainly will not support this rebalancing because it does not point to the possibilities of almost no economic development of this country and without that growth all social promises are part of political demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40649	I thank Mrs. Chichin-Shain. Next up is Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here's a colleague of Radoš without colleagues Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40650	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think this rebalancing can actually be told everything that's worth government policy. And that generally means that the revenues are planned bigger than they are real, so then, of course, when they don't come true then they have to go down, but according to the unreal incomes, the money that's not earned is spent, and then in the rebalancing, instead of cutting costs, so what's spent is fucked, which can be the condition of future development. And that's how it works with this budget. And in this sense, this budget rebalance actually paints very well the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only on this Budget but also on the general policy of the Government. The same is true of expectations that have no basis, so in these materials that the Ministry of Finance provided to us, there is a reason why it is going to change and supplement the State budget, and the reason is a slower growth of economic activity in the first quarter of 2005 than expected at the time of the preparation of the budget. So one quarter is enough to go into a rebalance calculation. And then the second document, which was probably created at the same time, says the latest macroeconomic indicators point to the recovery of the Croatian economy from the first quarter. So in the first quarter there was a reason why it goes into the rebalance of the budget and then it's said that the latest macroeconomic indicator in the second quarter is talking about how things are going better. So if things are going better, then why do you even go into a rebalancing calculation? If it should be some kind of real and relevant indicator of trend, and of course I think it's not even about neighborhoods, it's simply about the fact that there's no real policy. There is no long-term positive trend, so then the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, is hunting for these indicators of individual quarters. And this absolutely does not mean that in the next quarter, then in the third quarter of this year, there will be this and the continuation of this positive trend from the second quarter, or it will be a possible repeat of the negative trends from the first quarter of this year, which means that there is no deep or systematic policy. So I'm going to use these basic estimates of this rebalancing calculation to point out some very problematic things that happen in several resors. I'd like to warn the Department of Defense that cuts the budget for 84 million kunas and that equipment and modernization, what's been waiting for years. For which the preconditions were created, the conditions for modernization and equipment are now being reduced to 51 million kuna. Therefore, there is no plan in this sense to modernise the armed forces. It's the same way to take off your training. Equally international cooperation. So exactly the things that have been going on for years, for almost 10 years, and so the activities of the armed forces have also been lost in this budget. Of course, this is an important issue, but in conditions where we are approaching the European Union, especially in conditions where our agriculture must prepare for a competitive performance, it is absolutely incomprehensible to abolish items at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Subsidies to craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, both in the agriculture segment and in the livestock segment, are reduced by 20 million kuna, and what is particularly worrying are two very important projects of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. One is permanent plantations. It decreases from a very small 30 million kuna, it decreases by a total of 16 million kuna, and we know that our journey to the European Union has a condition to try to increase the number of our crops, permanent fruit plantations and olive trees to some 50 thousand hectares, and vineyards to some 10 to 15 thousand hectares. It's a very demanding project. With such small funds, especially those that have been reduced, we have absolutely no chance of building our permanent plantations in those quantities in which: a) could be competitive with the European Union, and b) especially in the sense that this would be sufficient production. Equally, the irrigation system that was projected poorly in the budget was reduced by 14 million kuna by 30. It is therefore halved, and of course it is too demanding a system to be done at all with 30 million kunas, and especially with the remaining 16 million kunas anything relevant could be done. Not to say, of course, that there are no projects here to round up our agricultural property, which actually means that, if we missed this year too, and then it means most likely next year because our budgets are very similar to each other to round up our agricultural property and that our agriculture that is the vital branch of our economy would lead to a situation that can be competitive with the European Union in these years when we can still make its internal change. We will not be able to do this after entering the European Union. So it's more of a concern than what I said to the Department of Defense, but more of a concern in my opinion is what happened with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. This ministry received an increase in total funding for 243 million kunas, but all that increased and much more than that went to pay. It's all gone for expenses, for personal consumption as it is in all segments of this budget, so unfortunately it's with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So there's been an increase in wages at all levels, but look what's lost, which is sacrificed. For example, the Institute for Education of the Republic of Croatia has lost funds, and we are constantly talking about how professional autonomy should be set up for our education and that is why we have established the Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia. And now here's when these, this rebalancing calculations exactly that institution that should establish that autonomy, the professional autonomy of our primary and secondary education victims. Not to say I'm saving up the office, for editing the Center for the External Educational Assessment. We brought here to the Croatian Assembly of the Law on secondary education a few weeks ago in which we give great tasks to the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. He should play a key role in the system of national graduations, national exams and so on and in this proposal of the Rebalance Center for the External Evaluation of Education, its arrangement actually loses 9 million kuna and falls to only 20% of the planned budget. This means that everything that we have written in our Law that we have recently brought is all a dead letter on paper because this Budget is why we have financed this Centre for the External Evaluation of Education as a key institution for national exams and for state graduates we have reduced it to only 20%. Hence, there is no point in saying that in this sense we could do something more serious. Equally equipment, making unique programs of vocational schools. It is part of the project to create Croatian national educational standards. Here in the section of vocational schools, it's also completely virtually abolished. Not at all. There were 15 million kunas scheduled for this activity. All 15 million kunas have been abolished. Therefore, on this plan of vocational schools this year we will not do anything about the creation of unique programs and then of course it means that we will not have in this segment either, which is why we seek Croatian national educational standards in the segment of vocational schools. Similarly, the student standard suffered in that segment, but what is particularly worrying about here in the science segment and higher education is new jobs in the higher education system that have been reduced by 51 million kunas and are in fact only 8.1% of what is foreseen. What does that really mean? This means that they are completely eliminated more or less if they are only 8.1% of jobs in the higher education system. So we actually failed there, so this segment is even more important than the segment of agriculture and the segment of defense, and of course these are the reasons why this budget can't get my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40651	I thank my colleague, Radosh. Contrary to some speculation fellow Vidovic is here and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40652	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues allow a brief observation of the proposed budget, not to repeat what my colleagues and colleagues have spoken before me, and as regards investment in facilities in the area and powers of social care, and I must say that I am also a citizen, and not only as mayor of Sisak, as others in the city of Sisak, was shocked and in infidelity accepted the information that I believed was not correct until we got the budget, that de facto of what was written here, the construction of a social care centre in short 4 million kunas needed. Since I've done this job, I know how to do it, how to rebalance and how to cut linear costs, often without real understanding what it's about. There are objects that can, whose construction can be interrupted, can be stopped, there are those that can't. Circumstances, i.e. through the will of the projector, the center for social care in the town of Sisak is an object that is all of the glass, i.e. the outside walls of that facility are made of glass. According to the contract on the construction of buildings with the contractor of certain "Srajce" d.o.o. from Slavonski Brod, the deadline for completion is 30 July of this year, is now due to be completed in a few days per contract. The contractor arranged with suppliers to deliver all equipment to complete all construction works, so the job goes. It's not true that something cares, that something hasn't been paid, etc. The investor put pressure on the contractor 15 days ago to speed up works, with the construction site situation so that the contractor is able to carry out the obligation within the agreed deadline. So it can be over these days. The facility has built a complete installation from water, sewerage, gas, electricity, telephone to central heating and cooling installations. Right now, the cooling and heating system is being installed. Madam State Secretary, we've been talking for a little while, if there's any way for you from your own resources to absorb the problem in a satisfactory way, I'm not going to insist on putting this in the budget. If that doesn't happen, now I have to say, such an object means with large glass surfaces without guarding it will certainly be threatened, it will be broken. At this stage of completion of the installation will be compromised, the roof is planned with heating installations that will not work which will lead to the creation of ice and destruction of the roof and is along the way situated in the city center, so I say we must know what is being said. People can't go all over one village, because the construction site shut down and they're going through a private yard. So much for that. Believe me, I don't insist on building this object out of obstetrics, but I'm warning you of the great damage that can be caused if the facility doesn't finish. I regret to remind you that another facility in the area of protection of persons with additional needs in Komarevo has also been suspended due to bankruptcy, a declared bankruptcy of the contractor. The story was going because this man's name is as random as I am, that it's my brother, and then it's spreading to the ministry that it's some kind of deal with the former minister. No guarantee was charged by the performer, and it took a million-and-a-half kuna because he was paid and had to finish the job. The consequence of that was Madam Secretary of State asking you to come to Sisak and see what it is, shooting the installation of the winter, central heating. It's done a lot of damage, maybe bigger than the one that would've been if it'd even given up on this performer. What is worrying in this budget is that I refer only to the area of social care, which obviously has no concept of the development of this system. In the last term, we tried to get into this one system that has been systematically neglected for 10 years to introduce some order and we were trying to correct the major deficits when it comes to space and equipment. When it's said to be the center for social care, then it's not because the clerks or I don't know those people who work there have better working conditions. This is about keeping the elemental integrity of people who come into these premises and who need their own intimacy that they usually extricate in front of these people in a more dignified way means not in front of 10 others but in order for the competent one official, social worker, etc. I convinced myself that we have centres for social work in which rats run while people are in these facilities because 10 years really did not invest in the facilities during the war. We managed to invest 400 million kuna in four years of office, my term as minister in the sector, unfortunately these data say that even those investments that started two or three years ago, which could have been completed in the past and let alone in this year, are again delayed by their conclusion that I am not now citing them individually, because they are all objects that were planned or started three, two or three or four years ago. So if anything needs to be saved, then believe me, it's not this system where there's so much trouble. These days we are facing the result of the devastation of such a system in a very brutal form, such as these days identified serious failures and in the work of inspection services etc. which is due to insufficient concern for professional development and professional education of people working in the system. In these positions, it's obvious that this somehow came up again in a different way. To shorten my debate, this budget rebalancing shows that unfortunately social care has remained a stepdaughter again and has remained in another plan compared to other costs which and the expenditure financed from this budget and result and will result in the contribution of entropy to the entire system and we would just like to reverse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40653	I thank my colleague Vidovic. State Secretary Dorica Nikolic, please welcome Mrs Nikolic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40654	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat it again, it is now the third time, I could agree when Mr. Vidovic said that social care was a stepdaughter. Social care has been a stepdaughter for 30 years. Pastorce has stopped being since 2004. You know very well that there are no people missing in this system and you haven't bothered to do what we're about to do but we've just started, and that's that you know that social care reform has been going on for years and that you've had a chance to end it and make a deal with the World Bank, you haven't done it. As for the investment...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40655	Madam Secretary of State, please explain your position on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40656	On behalf of the promoter, I will say that I have explained to my colleagues that here as the investment concerns when it was taken off investment positions, not a single investment nor the Centre for Social Care in Sisak will be left behind, nor will it be unfinished, nor will anything happen, you have expressed your concerns, I can tell you and I have told you in a previous appearance that we have if we come in some investments because they haven't been charged as well as the receipts that we have our own funds that can be transferred in the next year or the funds that are here, if we don't use them until that deadline they fail us, therefore, everything will be completed, which should be completed and nothing will stop. Be assured, we have been so careful that really no investment will stop, perhaps some will slow down, but not because we would like to rebalance it, but because on the ground, there are various permits, competitions, etc., it does not go as predicted, therefore it will not fit in the investments. As far as investment in human resources is concerned, I have said that since 2004, there are now eight more competitions under way, and there are many different jobs in social care for more than 100 new people. You know so well that in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia it is not easy to find a certain expert, it is not easy to find a defectologist, psychologist because everyone will not be in a certain smaller place and I don't know how, and that it is difficult to fill it, but we are still filling that trend and don't be afraid at all that the welfare board doesn't take care of it. You also know that we are now facing a reform of social care in which, we are talking about homes, where we have given the task of decentralisation, and deinstitutionalisation, it is not that simple and therefore we have taken care of which funds and which investments will continue to develop and which will not develop, which are not in this budget rebalancing. In this budget rebalancing are only those investments planned as capital investments for 2005. So, when we talk about this and when we talk about the situation and the inspections, I am obliged to say that in the social welfare administration so far there has been no special inspection department and we have now and for the inspection supervision of the special and the chief of inspection and we are filling it with adequate inspectors, we are also creating for administrative oversight, it is precisely the course of the competition and will also be the administration of the social care department for administrative supervision, so the inspections were in this year until today's 23rd inspection day. So in half a year there was more than in the previous years all year. So it's not true, but as people fill in, that's how teams are filled. You well know that inspection supervision is not one person but minimum must go to three professional persons of which one must be a lawyer, one social worker, one psychologist, even a team should go and one defectologist, meaning minimum when you go into inspection you have four people. So when we speak, I repeat again, as far as the welfare administration is concerned, no rights have been abolished, no rights have been reduced, no protégé, user, child or older person or person with disabilities as far as rights are concerned has been denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40657	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40658	It is incorrect that Mrs. Secretary of State claimed that social care centres have not stopped being pastors since 2004, so you can see that no one from HDZ would argue and you want to prove yourself and you claim such a lie. If you had attended, or had any of the Government attended a meeting in Ljubljana that spoke about the institutional protection of children then you would have heard that the crisis of the institutional system is in Croatia and that is what concerns us, we can think better or worse about ourselves but see what others claim about us, it is objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40659	There are two witnesses. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40660	If people could get a pension with two witnesses, then I can only have one brief intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40661	People were getting a pension but losing their heads with two witnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40662	So I am pleased but be careful you said in the Croatian Parliament that the facility will not stop, and I am very pleased that I am correcting it as an incorrect quote. I'm correcting the inaccuracy of the pastorate I told you about, I agree with you for a truly 30-year-old stepdaughter, Madam Secretary of State, you've recently had to read a little bit better what was done, you have a report prepared, a fat book, you might also find out in it, and ask the people that are still in the Ministry, not all of you have gone, not everyone has gone, that seven experts from all over the world gathered, reforming the social care system, you should only start in 2004 with the implementation of that system, almost everything prepared, the English and Japanese paid for the study and implementation should go. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40663	Dear Representative Joseph Leko, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40664	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Government, so it is almost difficult to say something new about the budget rebalancing which is on the agenda when it comes to certain items, but I was motivated by a sentence that many of us here quoted last Thursday as discussing the Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004. If you remember in one paragraph, the Croatian National Bank claims that for 12 years the state deficit of the Republic of Croatia is financed from the sale of our assets or from foreign debt. And in that sense, it seems to me that this budget gives me nothing new but confirms that this government's policy continues to be a 1993 policy. We can run it here, it's necessary and it's legitimate, it's a debate that's better run by the state, who works better in the government, and it's going to be tried by citizens of course. That's why we're talking. But I can assure you that the solution to the Croatian problem will not be as long as it is projected or claimed to be the growth of gross domestic product as it claims here in the first three months of this year is 1.8%. At the same time, Mr. Jacob Gelo was removed from the State Statistics Office because of such statistics. It is a fact and we agree with it and that fact limits the development of the Republic of Croatia, closes the perspective of 300 thousand people who do not work and wait for work and the Chinese People's Proverbs says "A wise man does not care what is present but is waiting for him". So in gross domestic growth of 1.8%, what will citizens who are now finishing high school expect. Work? I do not believe in a good perspective, nor in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy, when I read in the budget that dividends, profits in public enterprises are converted into spending through budgets. And no one's arguing about it here either. So we would really have to turn around how to run Croatia in advance, how to open her perspective and not how to stop her. There is no change in the fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia, there is still a debate on how much the deficit will be and how we will settle it and not debate how investment will be opened and new jobs will be created, how growth and development will be encouraged and supported. We are discussing whether consumption will be given on this item or on that item. It's a short breath, of course. No government vision, no program. And that's no longer the issue between us. Politics, the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so indeed only economic policy is completely limited and relied on relations with the International Monetary Fund and serves to meet the criteria of the International Monetary Fund. That is why it is not realistic to expect that the growth of gross domestic product will be how the rebalancing is now projected. Thus, let's say the 2005 budget planned for the real growth of gross domestic product in 4 a nominal growth of 6.9. Now the rebalancing forecasts its reduction, or growth of 3.7. According to statistics, the real growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter was only 1.8%. This means that in order to achieve annual growth of 3.7% in the remaining April-December 2005 period GDP growth should be 4.3%. This is really not realistic because programs are not offered to conclude that such real growth will be. As a result, an unrealized deficit of 4.2% is also planned. The government explains that due to slower GDP growth, the rebalancing forecasts a 780 million Circ. revenue reduction while the total expenditure of the general government is almost at the same level. And that shows that the deficit growth is unreally planned. At the same time, the government predicts that two billion kuna will be charged from dividends. I think it's also unrealistic because the government doesn't state from which companies will provide 2 billion for the dividend budget. But something even worse is that these companies, these companies, will stop their development, will stop investment, even if it's about HT, T-Mobile or I don't know who. Thirdly, this report or rebalancing does not show any indication of any outstanding and unpaid government obligations. However, both directors and business people who claim that no business obligations are paid. Of course, the minister will say give them the information but I'm not the Department of Statistics or the Ministry of Finance and I trust people who do business. It is my duty to warn and even experts who write about the economic and financial situation in the Republic of Croatia that even such obligations are over several billion kunas. When it comes to the debt of the Republic of Croatia, it is certainly true that the unprecedented growth rate, the growth rate of the debt when the debt is combined or added to the debt and domestic debt. About domestic debt it's really breaking out the potential of banks or taking from banks actually money to borrow consumption, it's the best example of drugstores that have nothing in the budget. So the 800 million government is in debt to the banks by domestic debt, but nothing is said about it. According to data that I could calculate domestic debt and ino debt in this government's mandate is 50 and nearly 8 billion kuna, which is really a huge increase when we know what this government has sworn. Therefore, it should be reiterated that without concepts, without programmes, without bolder steps, Croatia will not solve fundamental problems. It will lag behind the countries of the European Union and the countries in transition. This is not a transparent budget, and I could say timid, so qualify it to hold some water while the masters leave can't really vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40665	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40666	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I certainly have no illusions that these discussions on certain areas may now have something to do with the rebalance of the budget that has already been adopted. However, it must remain recorded simply so that we can act accordingly. I think politics has led to culture in some years. So I'm going to say a few words about that. First, about the character of the rebalancing itself, that is, the plan itself and then the policy that is being led. So, at the beginning, we'll forget the ratio of the funds planned and the budget implementation in 2004 but we'll just focus on what it is to say the reduction in this. And I have to say that on all the items of the 2005 plan, wherever there's a specific programme activity of culture everywhere is at least a reduction. For example, museum-gallery activity minute 455 thousand, theatre music-clause activity minus 700 thousand, cinematographic activity minute 500 thousand, literary publishing and booklets million, new media culture minus 500 thousand, international cultural co-operation minus million and 500 thousand etc., etc., that I do not continue reading. But there's one item where there's an increase, and that's only one item on all of these prints that we have ahead of us, that's a item called pay for regular work, other expenses for employees. There is an increase compared to the execution in 2004 of 5 million kuna. So the software activities are regularly... They were shrinking, but the only thing that grew was an increase in wages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is difficult for everyone as a minister and as a government to work with existing capacities and the fact is that many of us also wanted to when we were responsible for culture to increase the number of employees and, among other things, at the Ministry. We were, however, waiting for someone to retire to hire a new one. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Culture hired over a hundred people, and in my experience, maybe 20 of them should have been less than what was, of course, just that those who were there to work better, more efficiently and more. That's a lot of sad data and I didn't get to the saddest. The saddest thing to you is that it was continuous as we advocated from 2000 to 2003 the growth rate from year to year for culture went to about 12% every year more than the period of the previous year, and it was one conscious and clear decision by the Government to develop education, science and culture so that in the end we had one balance of somewhere 68% more funding in the programme activity, culture than it was before 2000 and in the meantime it happened, not that it continued, or that it should continue rather than that there was a serious fall. So now I'm not saying something that I'm saying by heart and falls within the area... I'm talking about concrete items. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we have in the field of theatre and musical stage activities two million less, today we have in... The book of publishing and booklets minus 10 million etc., etc., I will not even read those sad figures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But please, I underline this, it is not just that the actual fixed amounts have been significantly reduced, there is no respect for the tendency to move on in this area and to progress because of the things that I will ultimately explain. But that's not the worst thing, we're coming to the worst right now. In the area of protection works on immovable cultural monuments, distinguished colleagues and colleagues are now 105 million kunas less than in 2000. With 155 million letters and numbers, we came to 50 million. Since there is no Minister of Culture, this is not so much addressed to the Minister of Culture, he knows what it is, this is addressed to the Minister of Finance and Government politics. This should be defended by the alleged adoption of the Law on Monumental Rents and will compensate for these large resources that are missing and that is over 100 million kuna. From the monumental rent, 34 million kuna were collected and the principle of monumental rent was just to keep the government's obligation to finance the protection of cultural monuments, while the monumental rent would be that over that compulsory protection which would use a picturesque image of the city of Pula in the center but which would not go to Euphrazi's basilica, Euphrazi's basilica is a matter of the interest of this state. So minus 105 million kuna and minus the principle that the monumental rent is something that comes through the care of a state that is not enough, therefore, in a way double loss. I know that all culture ministers fight for their wakes and that's sometimes hard and sometimes it's easy or it's at least easier. But taking down the Ministry of Culture, such large funds in the area of cultural heritage, sort of turns out to be half the meaning of the Ministry of Culture. In some countries, the Ministry of Culture is even called the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, not even called culture, because it is thought that it is possible theater or film or I don't know what else to finance somehow different but monumental heritage is not possible to finance differently. There is never enough State resources alone, nor local funds, nor monumental rent funds, and the state's exit from financing the protection of cultural heritage because actually getting out of one fundamental responsibility is a national cultural resource which is no less than to say issuing responsibility for the protection of natural protection, perhaps even greater. I don't know if it's again and whether it's going to be necessary again to teach a modern lesson about those who think they're modern and whichever way I say it is, there are more theories, bases and upgrades. So it's always said like this, when we have more resources in the industrial product, in the overall economic effects, then we'll be able to isolate more for culture. Mr. Minister, that's very wrong, culture is what brings resources, culture is what creates the dynamics of human relations, culture is what sort of treats us from the depression that we have when we come from any not western European city and not Western European countries, but from the Eastern European countries, and we see what cultural heritage looks like, so we see what cities look like. So it doesn't have to be an Eastern European type of Poland or the Czech Republic either. It can also be today an Eastern European country of type Bulgaria and Romania. We're behind in these things, too. It seems that it will not be understood, and it is regrettable that these voices remain the voices of the lonely, that the budget cannot be drawn based on the classification of this thin budget where hundreds of millions of kunas for the protection of cultural heritage are huge money and huge effect and for the budget itself is both inconspicuous. So we set up the wrong address where we're going to scrape the budget. We didn't choose even this agent that's famous for at least being the most transparent, to say very quickly brings effects, yes, that if we're already saying that somewhere in some way we're based on human resources, then they're the most fundamental ones based on culture. I'm sorry that we didn't keep the continuous growth from somewhere around 12% of the year of this budget, but that we still fell so badly in a place that is dramatic to say the most painful, it's the very protection of cultural heritage. I call because it's illusory, we've tried to do this to the amendments before, something to make the gentlemen who lead this country in this way, imagine that it's water and what they'll leave behind for generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40667	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government. Here in a series of today's debates, we are all well-known for the fact that the budget is the most important fiscal document through which the overall government policy is read, its expertise, its determination, and its consistency in the realisation of citizens of the promised better life is unquestionable. But today, this government again shows all the splendor and leprosy of both promises and realisation. But if we could understand such an approach last year, the initial failure and the need to transfer responsibility to the former government in this year did not go away or as my predecessors said did not drink water. Libya is simply spent. Reading the rebalancing proposal almost so that it could be said that it became a habit of this government to make six-month budgets because to remind ourselves, the first budget was made on 9 March 2004. It was rebalanced in 30.6.2004, and at the end of the year, the government further improved the rebalanced budget to align the positions. This year's budget was adopted on November 22nd last year, and today it will likely be rebalanced. According to the announcements by the end of the year, we are under another rebalance, so the claim on the six-month budget and the planning of income and expenditure is obviously not without justification. To remind ourselves of the adoption of this Budget, our prime minister said that all promises in the guaranteed card were fulfilled, the determination to do so was demonstrated. Let us remember that at these moments, the prime minister highlighted 5 significant and equally important targets of the 2005 budget from macroeconomic stability and the slowdown of further external debt growth through the reduction of the deficits of the State budget, the consolidation of public finances and so on. The second was unquestionable support for economic growth, responsible implementation of significant infrastructure projects. The third major support for small and medium-sized enterprises, shipbuilding, strategic economic objectives as was then said. The fourth priority is to increase pension, defenders, parents, the opening of new programmes for socially endangered categories, demographic renewal and so on. And fifthly, clear support of the state administration body and strengthening Croatia's ability to get closer to the European Union and so on. What is visible today is from this rebalancing budget, but today this government is actively showing that it can deal with the said challenges of the moment, and today's debate unfortunately confirms that in the adoption of the budget we were right in spite of and then a severe reaction to the position when we claimed that this budget was not only unrealistic and unsustainable but also with a very short duration. That's when we said there were local elections in the formation of local authorities. Today it's confirmed who was right. But our opposition does not delight in this truth. As with the adoption of the budget, we are today showing our concern by the fact that there is a lack of development in consumption, that the rate of growth is reduced, that there is a low growth in gross social product, that there is no more serious approach to employment and employment in general. That more serious structural reforms have remained, that decentralisation has not continued and so on. That's what my predecessors were all over about so I wouldn't say it again. I agree with the words. However, I will reiterate my particular concern and dissatisfaction with the lack of development, especially the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and the absence of those projects that have meant such a connection to other parts of the Republic of Croatia. War, vice versa, economic structure, quality frames and so on have left a deep mark in Slavonia, unfortunately, inability despite our wealth and comparative advantages to make a more significant step on our own. The end of the local elections ended, according to all the promises, but also the realistically expected support. Respecting the time away, I will only highlight a few items in this rebalanced budget that I hold to have a significant reflection for both the Brod-Posavina County and Slavonia, as well as other parts of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that there is no Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy here today, because we've been doing a lot of polluting in the adoption of this budget. It is almost incomprehensible for us that this Ministry reduces budget expenditures by 130 million kuna in agriculture and forestry by nearly 80 million kuna and the rest in the water industry. Or according to the items, support in agriculture and fisheries for 23 and a half million kuna or under rural development items of 10 million kuna, for the promotion of agricultural production and intervention on the market of 13 and a half million kuna. For 20 million kuna is less investment support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. The livestock and selection service got a million-and-a-half kuna less. Co-financing of the programme of technological promotion of the food industry 2.5 million kuna less. The irrigation system that is classified in the highway construction ranking according to its weight in this budget rebalancing has 14 million kunas less. The register of agricultural holdings is 600,000 kuna less. Winemaking and winemaking 620 million kunas less. The fruit industry is 500 million kuna. The health care plant is 550 million, 550,000 pardons. The agricultural land planning programme, which is very important especially for the flat-rate parts, for Slavonia, therefore, 3 million kunas less. The development of a water system of 8 million and 750 thousand. I will especially stay here on one of our very important segments, which is the regional waterway of Eastern Slavonia from which this rebalancing has been stripped of 3 million kunas. Here from the rebalancing it is evident that the government went linearly, 25% took off all the items, and no matter how anyone went, it passed. To remind you of a project to build a regional water pipeline for which, even when Mato Arlović was adopted, my colleague Ljubica Brdarić and I have tabled an amendment that has not been accepted, weighs 671 million kuna. This year, a dynamic plan needed to secure 70 million kunas to at least launch the more serious project, but the government said 12 million kunas were quite enough and here for a incomplete six-month reduction to 9 million kuna. In view of the total investment of a child born today or born today, it would be given water for 75 years, of course, if they were to experience that age. Of course, I could say a lot more, but time won't allow it. So we have a budget rebalancing that I personally cannot support because of the above. Fortunately, though, we also hope for a successful tourist season that will fix the picture. There is also a holiday that will come to the government in particular, and it is expected that it will not only use that time to redefine goals and not only to survive and survive but to finally start and live well. This rebalancing doesn't suggest it. We'll see what he brings next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40669	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40670	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to pick up where my colleague Raven stopped, but first I want to say something. I enjoyed our prime minister's presentation today very much. Man has a look, a hold, he's eloquent, but my pleasure doesn't get the roots from being satisfied with the proposal for a rebalancing that's ahead of us to throw away HDZ policy rather than more from the fact that I love fairy tales. I prefer it when they're told by Grimm and Andersen. I also have a dilemma, I don't know if the Prime Minister really means what he's saying or knowingly selling us anything based on optimism. It would be devastating, in fact, for both of us. I must say that I believe that we Slavons are extremely happy that agriculture is one of the strategic commitments of this government and our minister who is Slavonac, so he knows how much the Slavonian country is worth, what agriculture offers and can give, because that's not what I'm afraid of to look at these items in his ministry. My colleague Gavran has already said there is no systemic irrigation, the amount is halved. There's no water supply. There's no water supply. The amount is reduced to encourage the planting of permanent crops by 20 million kuna. The work of art will also not be done in time because from 250 thousand to 125, we are left with the hope of God’s mercy and transparency, and as we see in recent days, it does not work very well. ... My colleagues, you are in error as well as in many ways so far. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just because he's a member of the SDP doesn't mean he's an atheist, but let's get back to rebalancing the budget. It is obvious that at the end of 2005, our prime minister spoke about the budget in 2004, saying about the 2005 budget when we would have to sum it up in three words, that it was social and developmental. I wish that were true, too, but if that were true today, we wouldn't even be discussing this. So it's not just a matter of perception, it's the wishes, the days of promises and the plans that have been drawn together with real life, and we're where we are today. There's as much money as there is. We can't make it up. The question is, how do we redistribute it? Savings are necessary, we agree. And then it's closed. If we have to save, we will save on children, on young people, on women, on old and powerless because they are the easiest to take away, and so far they are not used to God knowing what treatment, so there will remain a marginal group of this society. I was going to mention certain items, percentages and amounts, but I can see that there's no reason or benefit because either one of them says no rights have been abolished, nothing terrible has happened. That's right. None of the rights have been abolished. But what do you have out of rights that you can't consume? I'm afraid nothing. When we talk about this budget rebalancing, the arguments that explain to us that what we read in the document sent by the Croatian Government that has greatly cheered or made a satisfied IMF does not write what it says. And forgive my colleagues and colleagues, but this is very much like a situation where a wife finds her husband with his pants down with an unknown woman, and he says dearly that what you see isn't true. I'm sorry if... Well, that's not as great as this rebalancing isn't great, I'm afraid. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is clear to me that there is no draft budget, so neither is the proposal for a rebalancing that will satisfy all users.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40671	Well, don't get excited about your pants down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40672	There is no government or minister, my colleague. I understand your excitement, but let me say it. There is neither a minister nor a government that will make such a budget nor a budget rebalance that will satisfy everything. It's absolutely impossible anywhere on this planet. But you should be realistic. It was said on the occasion of the adoption of this budget that it was too high and unsustainable and proved to be true. We should finally begin to live in harmony with our opportunities to avoid breaking it over the back of the weakest. Unless the economy develops, and from this rebalancing, it is obvious that it will certainly not happen quickly if new jobs do not occur, if people do not start to work, there will be no budgets and all these problems we are talking about will not be solved. We have something now called the summer rebalancing. What I think might happen to us is that we get autumn or winter. If the economic situation doesn't improve, what kind of country we could introduce the fashion of each season's rebalancing, and that wouldn't be good, we should wake up to realize that we have a problem, admit it, and try to solve it in the best possible way, because as long as we stick our head in the sand like an ear's going to change. You can argue that the 2005 budget and this rebalancing that it is social and developmental we on the other hand can say that it is not true, but it will best feel on its skin what the truth of the citizens of this country is, and it should be done first and foremost because the state should be a service that would give them good, easy, which is a possible better life and should be a common task. However, we are all buried in some visions of our own and we are fighting for our views which are right and justifiable, we are here to represent those who voted for us but for me and for every citizen of this country it would be in the interest that what the minister says, what the Prime Minister is saying is true and true and that we all live better together. The worse it gets, the better none of us will eventually have anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40673	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40674	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me say a few words about this budget rebalancing proposal for this year, first of all, I would say that I am not satisfied with the way that this rebalancing has happened already practically after 6 months, which says so one quick rebalancing this year, it says that when we've come up with a budget plan for this year that we've simply memorized some things and we haven't planned well at the time. What's bothering me right now is that by the end of the year we'll just be reported on how certain funds are being spent and we won't have the opportunity to discuss here. I mean, first of all, the Parliament has been invited to make a budget, and I don't think it's a good idea to have the practice of taking any more decisions to the government and not being able to even discuss them at the same time. When we talked about this budget when we were bringing it in, then we argued with each other about both the opposition and the ruling side about whether the budget was developed, whether it was social, one of them said that, the other was not, but now 6 months later, it's obvious that from those stories and explanations that were then about some kind of development and social budget we can't really talk about because these positions are significantly reduced. I agree that it is necessary to introduce savings in certain positions and items that may have been luxuriantly planned, and now it is visible that they will not be realised but I think that reducing certain positions that can stimulate development, and only one development can bring about the possibility of then achieving and the social part of the programme, I would particularly point out here that these items have been significantly reduced. They also cannot agree that it is necessary to transfer profits from public companies, state-owned enterprises into some kind of consumption. I think it's a better solution that everyone through increased investment in state-owned enterprises that make up a significant part of the economy can also achieve increased employment and complete growth and in that part if we continue to move some of it from, say, state-owned... and I don't know of HEP and other companies then we'll come very quickly into a position in these companies that it can't function normally. I would particularly point out those items that have been significantly reduced in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship by 56 million, and then implement measures to boost investment by 15 million and 600, subsidies to companies particularly outside the public sector, these 15 million relate to them. Furthermore, in the following paragraphs, the shipbuilding subsidy has also been reduced by 20 million, a programme to improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy by 2 million, the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure by 9 million 900. Furthermore, at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy which are here, I have been resolutely bound by my entire working life reduction by 130 million kuna, when in this segment we look at only improving forestry and hunting with 3 million kuna, then as a forester I wonder of 2.8 billion, 3 million as it has passed, given that forestry and wood industry makes 2.4% of GDP then it would be logical to expect that the improvement of that branch is also invested in significant funds, and it is known that the only investment in forestry that one can work for a long period because it is not... is the only country that can invest in certain subsidies in that branch. I have already suggested that I also tell the former Minister and the current that, simply from those words, the Law on Incentives in Forestry, Fisheries and Agriculture, we throw out forestry as a word because it is not covered by any kuna in these investment incentives. And I think that in that part not only because of the need, here's the whole of Europe is investing significant funds just for increased shaming and thus creating a healthy environment and environment, unfortunately, that's not the case with us yet. Also significant funds have been reduced to the Ministry of Agriculture in other items of rural development from investment support in agriculture that I said about 20 million earlier, then further, what would be achieved with at least these minimum funds, for example organisations and participation in expert conferences, and fairs. Foresaw 3 million and 100, reduced by 2 million and 100 thousand, so if these people don't go outside to look at what's going on in modern action in Europe how they're going to know how to pass on certain items to us, what's the trend in the world today. What the esteemed colleague of the agriculture minister said about certain trends in the ministry above all raised several years of fruit growing, wine growing, which is clearly the only possibility before entering the European Union, the item also reduced by 20% over 16 million kuna. Then further in livestock, also with 40 decreases by 20 million kuna. What's also significantly reduced is the irrigation system for 14 million kunas, and land editing, and we know what our land situation has been reduced from some tiny 5 million, for 3 million means there's practically nothing left. Likewise, when we look at parts in certain areas, then certain areas in the water supply system are significantly reduced certain support, whether because they are not prepared projects that I don't think they are, but because they simply had to be reduced somewhere, then where there is less resistance. When we look at all of this, the Ministry of Agriculture, which should be one significant stopper, should certainly invest significantly more in the overall percentage for the ministry, but unfortunately, here is the situation quite different. When we talk about certain parts of which I say and personally connected professionally, it is primarily the wood industry as it is today still the stimulating and exporting largest export branch in the Republic of Croatia with between $330 and 350 million and more. It was first announced that it would receive some 260 million kuna in the budget, but it fell to 20-30, now at the end of 3 million, which is completely insufficient for that branch that employs domestic labour, which uses domestic raw materials. What happens to us if we hire that branch to the end? It will happen, and Mr. Shucker is well aware of the situation in that branch that soon the Italians will be our owners of the entire wood industry. The other day, the Wooden Industry Trokut was sold from Novska to Italian customers. Two months ago, a Swiss group bought Iverica from Bjelovar. Two, three years ago, Kaligaris from Ravna Gora and INO Otocac left last year, and in a short time we will be selling the wood mass we have here to Italian or some other customers. Then the question is, in any case, how are they going to develop? Clearly, it will be no development to encourage employment but that it will be just a certain stage of processing and everything else will be on the other side. I understand it's good to support a textile industry that employs a significant number of workers as well. I know it's good that they gave them the sales, I don't know, Name on the Quartet but I'd like that in this branch that used to have about four times as many employees as today, to take a little care of her because without one less support that branch will remain on several domestic producers, everything else will become foreign. Here, and in the end I would end up because of all this and the way this rebalancing was made and in this time after only a few months I personally cannot accept the support of this budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40675	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40676	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would first like to thank all those colleagues and colleagues who gave up the debate and allowed us, I was even 67th reported, to come to order at a relatively decent time of day. These are obviously those colleagues who are convinced by the basis of the arguments they received from the prime minister and the minister that it is a good budget and that it should be clearly and unconditionally and supported. I am unfortunately among those who do not understand all these arguments and I am probably among those who, intellectually, cannot understand how this budget can be shown to be good. I would also make peace with it that I can't understand it if my seamen, the above and the islanders actually felt that budget on their standard in terms of getting better and better life. Unfortunately, in the past seven days, I've spoken to a huge number of people in my constituency, and they've all assigned me to discuss the opposite here right now. Namely, we are in the Primorje-Goran County a very touristic area, people come in contact with tourists, especially from Central European countries, and when compared to those citizens who come from year to year, they see a big difference. They see our country's standard growing, our guests coming from year to year getting richer, more satisfied. Unfortunately, my sailors, my islanders and my tops are not so pleased. Namely, they made me say about the following. In fact, perhaps only two introductory sentences in what I will later tell on the basis of what I am in charge of here. In fact, the budget someone said today defines the future of the state and I can agree with that. The budget basically has two objectives. I hope we all agree on that. One objective is to correct the perceived shortcomings in the functioning of the state and society and the other is to take advantage of the comparative advantages of the state and society in encouraging its development through the budget. So I expected that we would get an explanation this morning for correcting it because it's not like there's nothing to be fixed and what we want to use as our comparative advantage to ensure faster development. So the measures under A and B measures basically define the country's development strategy. Unfortunately, neither the prime minister nor the finance minister touched these concrete measures, and that is not good for me. I would just like to say a series of details that the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County had warned him about, and yet I only contacted one smaller group of people from Istria in Buzet and were about their remarks next. Namely, they say first you have to tell your colleagues that when the gross social product has been falling for three years in a row, it's not a very good sign for us. Second, the fall in competitiveness from 53rd place two years ago now to 79th place is certainly not a good sign. Then, unemployment that hasn't fallen in two years, remains at a very high level, too, is not a good sign. External debt, we heard, growing still. That's not a good sign either. The citizens warned me that they felt that they were actually even worse alive. They couldn't prove it clearly in numbers, but let's now look at the tables that we got with today's materials then it's clear that the purchasing power of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia has fallen by 2.4% in the last 12 months. That's also not a good sign. Then they said if Mr. Minister doesn't trust you, then just ask him to say how reduced the revenues in the budget are by tax on goods and services as well as VAT. My colleagues and colleagues, look at those numbers. 2.7 billion less tax on that basis in the state budget. That's also not a good sign. As a scientist, I must tell you that scientific productivity relative to our western and northern neighbours is significantly lagging behind, which is also not good. Compared to the countries in transition, I found another interesting data we fell to the 9th place by using information technologies and 18 months ago, the government spoke about E Croatia in its programme. This is certainly not E Croatia. According to decentralisation of jurisdiction and fiscal decentralisation, Croatia does not fall under any examples in Europe. Even our eastern neighbours have a direct choice of mayors and we are just here at today's session to discuss whether to put the bill on the agenda or not. I must also say about decentralisation something that the Slovaks warned us about the other day when we were at the Central European Initiative in Bratislava. Our colleagues told us that every investor is taken very, very seriously. Each investor is welcomed by the minister, mayor and mayor depending on where the investment is planned. The minister clearly explains state policy, tax policy, and the mayor is obliged to assume all obligations under his responsibilities and the mayor's infrastructure and all other preparations on the ground, in the area where the investment will be carried out. Very coordinated, very conscious, very, very professional and thorough. I'm afraid we don't have that. Today, there was also talk of a demographic policy that is clearly completely unsuccessful. Clearly, it is unsuccessful because we are always outsmarting ourselves about the height of the child's allowance, not colleagues and colleagues in this problem, the problem is that for their parents we should ensure a quality standard of living and then we will see clearly how the demographic policy and its results will change. My colleagues and colleagues, I could move on to that other group of arguments about our natural values, priorities as we use them, why we don't use them more efficiently, better, more successfully. Clearly, it would take me a very long time, the light had already turned on but I'll just point out in the area of tourism where they specifically begged me to say a few words, we don't even use those minimum values that are so evident, we don't use our cultural heritage, we don't use our historical heritage, we don't use our natural heritage, we didn't try to extend the season with those instruments. I have recently been on a request from the Council of Europe and about their cost in Portugal on a subaria, a volcanic island, you know which is not compatible with our beautiful Adriatic islands. There on that island every 20 minutes, a plane with tourists lands. There is not a single tourist in our eight months of the year with our beautiful islands. And it's the government's fault, and it's the government's fault, and it's our fault, and it's our fault, we're absolutely guilty, let's not run away from our part of the responsibility. And it's our fault. Therefore, we also need to see through the budget the way in which we need these comparative advantages to make a much more efficient use of and coordinate with local and regional self-government. There's no other way but those three levels of government have to start using it, if we don't do it, it's certainly not good. Since my time is up, it's not red, and now it's turned red, you see, so I just have to say that I'm not going to support it, and I'm not supposed to support it and I'm not supposed to support it, and I'm not going to support it, and I'm not going to support it, and I'm not going to be able to support it, and I'm going to be able to represent it in this House for the sake of this proposal budget because there's not a single moment that I've been talking about, and I can really start my life for the better in this beautiful country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40677	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40678	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, since time has shifted. I'll tell you what, I'm going to say a few pints, and I'm going to take a significant step away from what I was going to say. The first thing I'd say, judging from the current course of the debate, it seems to me that the main battle around the budget is being fought here in a way that will drain more water from dry dreno. Whether more of these waters will drain the opposition and opposition MPs who present the reasons and seek the weak points of this rebalancing and the reasons why they will not support this proposed rebalancing. On the other hand, those who support this rebalancing proposal are the question of who will drain more of this water and dry drainage at the end of this debate. The main reasons are that the government has not shown enough strength, has not shown enough strength, enough pressure even knowledge, which is not sufficiently drained by this juice for our general and common needs. It seems to me that three questions should be answered here. The first question is why the expected revenues were left behind, what was designed. Which are the reasons, whether it is incompetence or a young government approach. Secondly, the second question to which I should have been answered is whether these items given as items being reduced, whether they are really those that should be reduced or should have been chosen by others, because they will always be found by anyone who is taken, he will clearly go to that category of dissatisfaction and seek the reason why he is the one who should have been in this reduction item. And the third thing that is most important to me is how this budget rebalance will affect the adoption of the 2006 budget, so that's about three questions that I think I should have answered. When we brought the state budget for 2005 seven months ago, it was said that this budget was developed and social, and the whole battle over the budget was fought around these two categories, those who defended this budget, clearly highlighted the components of development and sociality, and the other colleagues and colleagues who challenged it sought it, meaning the development they wanted to support that there was no component. Even then, when the state budget was adopted, it was suggested that the target deficit of 3.7% of the gross social product would not be possible to achieve future planned revenue was based on how colleagues and colleagues then said, and some experts also said that the preamble rate of economic growth was too ambitious and on the other hand, which was expenditure in 2004 which was significantly higher than originally planned and this was here on several occasions and the Minister and Prime Minister were inherited, inherited costs that significantly affected such budget planning. New, this targeted deficit in the general state of 4.2% as we have in this proposal is much more realistic than the old and after 6 months I can say that we actually have... according to our current, current capabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This rebalancing of the state budget plans to keep expenditure at the same level as around 92 billion kuna so far, with spending parties having a redistribution of around 1 billion kuna, mainly in favour of salaries and pensions and at the expense of material costs and subsidies. What are the consequences? The consequences will be a major deficit, which will be covered by additional revenues from dividends, public enterprises and new responsibilities. It was here in a lot of debate more colleagues pointed out. As we can see, the government expects more revenue than privatisation in 2005 amounting to about 4.5 billion kuna. However, that is exactly what concerns need to be seen, as the planned privatisation revenues currently do not indicate that these revenues will also be realised. Of course, all those who have been denied the right to give are dejected. However, when the planned revenues are left behind and the reasons for staying on these revenues are cited as pre-optimal assessments, the grey economy and lower economic development is a duty and the government's right to give a new way of redistributing expenditure. I believe this proposal for a rebalancing is entirely realistic and whether it should have been cut right where this rebalancing is suggested it will only be seen. One thing's for sure. That this rebalancing will have a significant impact on the adoption of the State budget for 2006 since these set out the obligations of the State which will significantly reduce the manoeuvre of financial policy in the coming year. Clearly, I suppose the Government is also absolutely aware of that and will take care of this in the adoption of the 2006 budget. I am afraid that some revenue cuts on some items, let's say, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, for example, will reduce the funds for care and childcare and youth with behavioral disorders, then care for children without adequate parental care, then for physically and mentally damaged children, and so on and so forth, and that will actually be understood as supporting anomalies and irregularities that are now in society, in the medium of media and social attention. The reduction of funds in this position will certainly be interpreted as reducing public care in the protection of children, especially children who are not cared for by parents. I call at the end of my debate to the Government and Mr. Minister not to be touched by this category in which the state should be concerned and that if already it has been taken down to find the funds so that this category is not abolished for the funds that are planned. Or, let's just say, it's hard under our circumstances, the conditions to be both developed and social. That's what anyone can see who wants to be real. Let's say between the Peljesac bridge, which is one element of a development project called the Croatian highway and these categories of young people, I would now choose children and young people to squander a little bit of funding from this bridge, so there will be resources and there will be time for the bridge, but let's not say to touch this. Since it is a redistribution for the provision of additional funds for the payment of guaranteed rights for civil pensions, defence pensions, salaries, subsidies, housing savings, additional maternity leave, permanent rights of Croatian defenders and unemployment benefits, I will vote for changes and additions of the state budget for 2005 with the fact that here I would ask the minister if it is possible in any way to apply to this item, the item of the disabled, those who need protection not simply to be touched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40679	Thank you very much. And respected representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40680	I thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers and members of the Government. The proposed changes and additions to the 2005 budgets are the move of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which does not speak of its ability to push Croatia in a positive or developmental direction, as it has been a ghastly promise during the pre-election period. On the contrary, it is the rebalancing of the current year's budget that shows the true state of affairs and the true possibility of this government. It is time for the government to stop going back to the budget in 2003, that former government and to accept the fact that for the past year and a half in Croatia, the government has been acting and that obligations have been made in the past year, not past the government. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has demonstrated with this Rebalancing proposal that it is unable to plan well or is unable to collect or collect, capitalise what belongs to it, taxes, excise duties and other resources that fill the revenue side of the budget. At the time, the revenue side of the Budget did not follow, thus the revenue side was not planned to follow. It is not negligible, and even if it is mentioned several times today, I will repeat that the revenue side of the budget lacks 786 million 243 thousands and 207 kuna. The lack of these funds proves that the government has neither a vision nor a strategy for economic development nor a management capacity. It does not offer developmental rebalancing, plans a new debt that will not be focused on development projects and programmes that the funds will not be intended to create the necessary infrastructure for so much desired foreign investment that should ensure the stability and competitiveness of the Croatian economy. This rebalancing rather than investing in the economy rags holes and covering the needs of wages, pensions and maternity benefits. The budget deficit is simply expressed entirely towards consumption, not development, and it is certainly not the direction in which Croatia should be launched. There is no need to rebalance the item by item because colleagues today have been through it in many ways, but what happens to the beginning or announced, announced reforms from science, health care to state administration? A reduction in state administration was announced at the big door when authorities were taken over and the number of ministries was cut and the number of state officials increased simultaneously. We all bear witness together that there has been no increase in wages in the state administration and therefore cannot explain the need to raise the salary funds unless there is a new increase in the number of employees in the state administration. If it is a reform with an increase, not a reduction in the number of employees in the state apparatus, then it is some new form of reform that has not yet been known in Croatia. The health care that calls for essential reforms leaves no significant resources, and new burdens will soon be found for healthcare that will make the primary health care of many inaccessible. It is clear that there is no vision for health care, that there is no announced health reform. This rebalancing in the spirit of population policy is a significant means of directing births, maternity benefits. Parents need to be stimulated in creating better conditions for them and their families. NO please, please, which means an increase in birth benefits and at the same time a reduction in funds on the continuum of preschool institutions of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We are significantly reducing funds for early learning of foreign language and so on. Tell me if the care of the youngest lasts only as long as the maternity benefits or maternity permits last. Here is another thing said today and I was asked to mention that although the former government had a significant, significantly smaller budget than this government has provided 10 million kuna for Croatian national minority programmes and projects in neighbouring and other countries. This government did not continue the policy, although it is clear that the Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other countries, not in Bosnia and Herzegovina where the constituent people are, but in neighbouring countries such as Serbia-Montenegro, Hungary, Slovakia, Austria, in those countries, the Croatian national minority is poor. In order to preserve tradition, history, folklore and culture of the Croatian people, significant funds are needed. The 10 million kunas provided by the last government were not enough for all these programmes but they were significant and helped to affirm the segment, but I do not understand why there is a second year in a row there is no hearing that these funds are being resecured even if the budget is rebalanced. Clearly, I will not give my vote for this rebalancing. I will not give it because the budget rebalance is not developed, it is not social, it does not achieve positive development goals. Figuratively speaking, this rebalancing falls ahead of all reform challenges. It offers not a vision of development but a rag of holes, the dokids of bad conditions anyway, the social conditions of the most endangered do not find solutions to the reduction of employment. What concerns me most is the direction this government has been running Croatia for a year and a half. This is not the direction that many people are driving Croatia in positive processes, it is the direction that causes the feeling of apathy and imperceptibility in the most vital layer of society, in young people, and that is certainly not good, and therefore I will not support this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40681	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said that this government is not capable, that there is no development and that it should not be returned to 2003. So I am correcting that this government is capable, has development and should return to 2003 because it is right in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, unlike in 2003, this government has provided a billion 146 million more for development programmes, and it should also be returned to 2001 when signing an annex contract damaged the Ministry of 230 million kunas which this government is now returning because they are not provided with the funds for what is signed and therefore should be returned and compared to see opportunities within which the Croatian State can go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40683	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on the rebalancing of the state budget for 2005. The amendments are submitted, and now it is time to conclude the debate on the handover of the amendments. We are going to vote on amendments and on the rebalancing of the state budget for 2005. You will manifest yourself on certain amendments. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to vote. Minister, get ready. We have Amendment No. 1 of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40685	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40686	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amanda 2nd MP, Željko Pavlica. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40687	Amandamn is not accepted because of this, this is about means of damage from elemental disasters. Mr. Representative has suggested an increase of 6 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40688	No, Minister, Minister, no, turn the other side, there's Amendment One that's not being voted on. And Amendment 2 to be voted on. It's about building the Kotoriba elementary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40689	The government doesn't accept it because it thinks it will. The amendments are all divided. ... [[But we don't have that amendment.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40690	The amendments that are invalid are not even multiplied. What? You'll get your turn. Let's go, we're voting on amendments. ... Well, there's no amendment table. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The debate is over. We have amendments submitted by the MPs. Every MP knows who submitted the amendment or the club. And everywhere about every amendment, I say what's the amendment to whom a representative or any club and any representative knows. And the amendment can only be shown by that representative or the club who filed it. Amendment to the 2nd Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40691	Amendment 2 is not accepted for the reason that co-financing negotiations with the county and the municipality that have not yet agreed on the proposed co-financing method are under way. The government therefore does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40692	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. We have to vote on the amendment. Who's up for that amendment? Let us vote on the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, we vote with our hands up. Who's up for that amendment? ... What do you mean? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He suggested, so please suggest again. Please follow the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40693	Except for those who have not, who have forgotten the keys at home, the remaining representative who is, there is a representative who is the new representative and for whom no key has been made. Well, he can't vote on it. And don't be surprised, and Mr. Light, don't stretch, it'll count. That's what you've been stretching. We don't stretch.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40694	Okay. Thank you very much. Please, let's go to the vote. Amendment 2 to MP Željko Pavlica, which the Government does not accept. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Third, we have an amendment from Ivica Pancic. Amendment 1 shall not be voted on because it does not comply with the law and rules of procedure. We vote on Amendment 2 Minister, please be clear. [[Intruder: Amendment]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40695	The government doesn't accept. He believes that the proposed funds are enough to help the victims of the Homeland War psychosocially.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40696	Thank you. Proposer Pancic's representative. He's gone. We have to vote. Who's in favor of Amendment 2? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 3 shall not be voted on, nor shall it be in accordance with the law or rules of procedure. And Amendment 4 also to MP Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40697	The amendment is not accepted because the government considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40698	We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We now have a series of amendments to Councilwoman Dragica Zgrebec. Amendment 1 shall not be voted on because it does not comply with the law and rules of procedure. Second Minister's amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40699	Amendment 2. The government does not accept for exactly the same reasons as the MP Željko Pavlica. It is the Kotoriba elementary school where it deals with local and regional self-government units on how to co-finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40700	Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40701	And indeed, the government is very up-to-date. Half an hour ago, we finished the debate. She already knows she won't accept any amendments. I wrote this amendment because that school is under construction. What started the works, which was planned in the Budget at the beginning of the year, a million kunas, and now it is reduced to some symbolism of 100,000 kunas. Then you don't need that either. And I would like to ask an explanation why the first amendment was not in line when I suggested an increase and a reduction of the funds at the same time? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40702	So come on, why isn't he the first, why isn't he your first amendment? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget law of amendments proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amount set out in the proposal may be adopted provided that other expenditures and expenditures and expenditures are simultaneously proposed and expenditures are not proposed. From the budget stock or the burden of additional borrowing. [[Agreement: From the reserve.]] In accordance with the provisions of Article 175 of the Treaty on the The rules of procedure shall apply to the budget of the Rules of Procedure relating to the procedure for the adoption of laws and, as provided for in Article 163, paragraph 3. The rules of procedure relating to the submission of amendments to amendments to the amendments to the laws, thus amending and supplementing the budget rebalancing in accordance with Article 163, paragraph 3 of the amendment may only be submitted to articles or items covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. Your proposal for amendment 1 does not comply with Articles 175 and 163(3). Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40703	And it's 2nd?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40704	2. That's why [[Intruder: A refers, and is written in the same way as Amendment 1.]] No, it's not the same way. It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40706	What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40707	That item didn't touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40708	I demand a vote on the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40709	Please, who's for Amendment number two? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the Honorable Representative, Dragica Zgrebec?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40710	The government doesn't accept. It considers that the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40711	Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40712	And I argue that the proposed funds are not enough because this is a co-financing contract for the construction of a hospital pavilion of the General Hospital in Čakovec for which it is necessary to secure part of the interkalar interest until the credit is paid off and it amounts to 2 million 750 thousand kuna as determined by the 2005 budget plan and is now reduced by 400 thousand kuna, and I also ask that vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40713	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40714	Just a little while, if I may, Mr. Chairman, add. If this is the case, this lack of funds will be resolved from the current reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40715	My colleague Zgrebec?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40716	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40717	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We have an amendment from MP Nenad Stazic, who is also not in line with the laid down rules and we will neither debate nor vote on it. Representative, MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. No, no, Agent Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. He's the one the minister's on about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40718	The government doesn't accept it because so far the commitments are less than 1 million kuna. The remaining funds will be sufficient for existing contractual and settlement commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40719	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40720	It's simply not true and you can say that you disagree because I'm really interested in when the government met and when did the government decide on these amendments? I asked that it might not be anywhere on the Internet, anywhere published today and at what time the government met to publish or discuss the amendments. So I'd like you to file that report to me under the Information Act. And what you've now stated to me is self-initiatively not true. It also warns the Rector of the University of Zadar all on the trail of the Bologna Process when you simply disable the further work of the University of Zadar before the conclusion of this contract. That's what Mr. Rector Damir Magash warns you about. Well Mr. Primorac when he heard about some critical things he simply accounted for in his rooms and advertised through a statement instead of standing here and hearing about what was going on and talking about... /The speaker turned off and re-enabled./... process designed. The work of a simple University of Zadar, a crucible of humanistic sciences, has thus been compromised.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40721	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh amendment of the respected Zdenka Chuhnil also does not fit these legal and business provisions. The eighth amendment of MP Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40722	The amendment is not accepted, as the government believes the proposed funds will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40723	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. He's gone. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The ninth amendment is the amendment of MP William Herman. The first two don't fit, the second two do. The amendment of the third representative of William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40724	The government does not accept because according to the government's knowledge, the proposed funds will be sufficient to complete the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40725	Agent Herman. He's gone. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment 4 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40726	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40727	Agent Herman. He's gone. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Dear Representative Slavko Linic on behalf of the SDP club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40728	Mr. President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, we are asking for another clarification, since we are not discussing some amendments in your interpretation. We are not discussing amendments which amendments we have touched items that the government has not touched. We want to say very clearly that the whole budget is one item, one article. The whole budget is one, but let's see what the draft budget looks like. So what we think, Mr. President, is the whole budget is one article, and while this article is being touched, the debate is opening on all items, so I would ask for an interpretation that we do not seek a break because there is no need to delay the debate. They would indeed pray, for it is a few amendments and should not be rejected unless we are really clear about the Rules of Procedure and ask for another further explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40729	I repeat you again you are talking about articles, precise and clear speaking Rules of Procedure and so we have always and regular practice we have had all these... That's what you're saying now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is how I interpret it and interpret it, and in a different way, I can't. In a different way, I can't. There's no more discussion about that, gentlemen. We're going to the amendments to the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40730	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40731	Here's the HSS club. Please, who's for that amendment number one of the HSS Clubs? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40732	Amendment 2 The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40733	Who's in favour of Amendment 2. The HSS counseling club? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40734	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40735	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40736	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40737	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40738	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40739	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40740	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40741	Amendment 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40742	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40743	Amendment 6, who's in favour of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40744	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40745	Dear Representative Pecek, please choose on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40746	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm just asking you one principle question about these amendments to the HSS. Did the government discuss them?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40747	The minister speaks for the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40748	My question is whether the government discussed the amendments submitted by the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40749	It is. The amendments came continuously I can at least say here, if I may, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40750	Please, peace. Let's move on. Please, the minister speaks for the government. The amendments came, the government discussed them, consulted them. It's a matter of government how and in what way. ... So speaks the minister on behalf of the government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, who's for amendment number seven? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 8. Gentlemen and ladies, Amendment 8. The Minister declares himself on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40751	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40752	It's okay, please, peace. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40753	The government doesn't accept. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40755	Who's for Amendment 8? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40756	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40757	Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40758	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40759	Thank you. Here's the Minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40760	Mr. President, the government doesn't accept it, it believes that the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40761	Proposer of amendment to MP Pacek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40762	Mr. President, I would like to ask Mr. Minister to explain why the previous amendments have not been accepted, and I would like to ask you whether any amendments have been discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40763	The minister explained the reasons why he did not accept the reasons for the amendments. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40764	The government does not accept, it believes that the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40765	Who's for Amendment 10? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 11 is the same as the amendment under number 2 that we have already voted on. Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40766	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40767	Who's for Amendment 12? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40768	Amendment 13. The government does not accept because the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40769	Who's for Amendment 13? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40770	The government does not accept because the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40771	Who's in favor of Amendment 14? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40772	The government does not accept because the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40773	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40774	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40775	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40776	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40777	Who's for Amendment 17? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40778	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40779	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40780	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40781	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40782	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40783	Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40784	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40785	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40786	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40787	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40788	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40789	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. And Amendment 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40790	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40791	Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40792	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40793	SDP representative club Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40794	I don't have an amendment on me, and I don't know if that's what we're talking about because we didn't get it on the bench. I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40795	Well, fellow Linic, you've submitted the amendment, I guess I'm saying the amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives' Club which refers to that in the account of business income, the section and that, income from dividends, so there's only one amendment to yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40796	We were well-written, so something with the club, something did not, on behalf of the SDP Club, mention once again that the government, in the light of the reasons for the rebalancing, cited a worse economic situation, low growth rates and particularly low growth rates due to insufficient investment, which is why the SDP's proposal to leave the dividends to companies for investment, for the sake of investment, for the sake of the country's ability to influence the development of investment because we will therefore have an improved economic situation. And we estimate that it is possible to compensate for the funds that we otherwise intend to additionally take to trading companies increased VAT revenues and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40797	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Now we have the amendments to Mrsic's representative. Amendment 1. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40798	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40799	You have a colleague Mršić here in the amendment one part of the amendment that is not in line with this and the other part is and you have this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40800	First of all, I really think that we have submitted the amendments to Article 3 but obviously the committee in charge will need to bring an interpretation. I'm giving up all my 13th amendments because they won't be accepted and I think we're wasting our time like this, so this is my modest contribution to the rebalancing of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40801	Thank you. And the amendment of Mršić's representative withdrawn. We have a group of amendments to the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. 1st Amendment is not in line with these regulations, the others are. Here's the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40802	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40803	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40804	The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40805	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40806	Amendment 3. The government does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40807	Thank you for that amendment number three. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40808	The government doesn't accept. It considers that the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40809	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 does not comply with the rules. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40810	The government doesn't accept. It considers that the proposed funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40811	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40812	The government doesn't accept it, thinks the funds are enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40813	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 8 does not comply with these regulations, so we will not vote on it. Then we have an amendment to Agent Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40814	The government does not accept, it believes that the funds provided are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40815	Proposer Gavran's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40816	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, well, here I am almost lost as our government has lost in these great amendments. Namely, here and here is the confirmation of all the absurdities of this style and mode of work. There's obviously contentment here, not content. But despite everything, I am grateful to our government that is constantly sitting today. About an hour ago, I filed an amendment and the government was already showing itself. I think you've broken all the speed records. But let me elaborate briefly on the meaning of this amendment. This is about building an eastern regional water pipeline in an investment of 670 million kuna. The government is reducing from $12 million to $9 million and says there are enough funds. To note, Minister Cobankovic knows this very well, that in the area of Brod-Posavina County as one of the three counties through which this water line is stretching only 50 settlements covered by a water network. I hope our fellow citizens and my fellow citizens remember well, so here's Mr. Minister if you say enough after this for 75 years, the inhabitants of Brod-Posavina County, Osijek-Baranja and the ministers of your Vukovar-Srijem might get water. But as you refuse the amendment, I ask not only that you change your mind but that you vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40817	Please, who's in favour of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of the Honorable Representative, Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40818	The government doesn't accept it, thinks the funds will be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40819	The University of Zadar?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40821	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40822	Mr. President! Mr. Minister, you obviously didn't even read the amendment when you said it would be enough because it was projected by the budget of 12 million kuna for the University of Zadar, and that's a reduced amount in the budget. So now we're reducing it by a quarter. Therefore, even in madness can't be enough of that means. But thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40823	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We have an amendment to the respected representative Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Vladimir Šišljagic, who refers to the position of the Clinical Hospital Osijek. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40824	The government does not accept because it believes that these funds will be sufficient at this stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40825	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40826	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you'll have to wait a little while for me to find an amendment in these very many papers that applies to this very thing. I didn't get it on the table in the materials. I hope you'll be patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40827	I can read it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40828	You didn't deliver the materials on the table, we didn't get them. Therefore, out of fifty-seven amendments, I have to find the one you've read now. Maybe we'd shorten the procedure for Mr. Secretary of Finance Shucker to say what it's really about, because I know the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40829	Here, I'll read you the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40830	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40831	The Ministry of Health and Social Care at the position of K16 18026 Clinical Hospital Osijek item 4224 medical and laboratory equipment amounting to 2 million 66 thousand 680 kuna is increasing to a amount of 16 million kuna to a total amount of 18 million 066 680 kuna. And in accordance with Article 31. The budget law is proposed by the beneficiaries of the Croatian Parliament, the business of the Croatian Parliament, the current investment maintenance service for 10 million kuna and the budget user 0.19 Anti-intelligence Agency in the position of this and 6 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40832	Thank you very much. So it's medical equipment for the Osijek Clinical Hospital, specifically for the Cardiovascular Surgery Department. In 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed a contract that remained under obligation to the Clinical Hospital Osijek 20 million kuna. The coronography lab works, he works under very difficult conditions since he has no cardiosurgery. In the area of cardiosurgery... So, the space is waiting, the funds are invested, the equipment is gone and the personnel have completed their education so that we are actually waiting in this section to meet the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the contractual obligation of 20 million kuna. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] I think this request is justified and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40833	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're done with the Amandans. It's an amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40834	The Government's amendment proposes to take place at the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Chapter XX. secondary schools and dormitories increase by a million and a half kuna so that the total amount is 3.5 million kuna, and suggests that the capital donation position is reduced by a million and a half kuna by non-profit organisations so that the position would now amount to 3.5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40835	I'm opening a debate. Club presidents can discuss it. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment to the government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? The result? Restraint, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The amendment passed with 78 votes for and 41 against. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the word was requested by the president of the Club, Honorable Representative Branimir Glavas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40836	Mr. President, please explain why we didn't get on the benches of the amendments being discussed? If you don't have an explanation, I'm asking for a half-hour break to be delivered on the bench of the amendment so we can discuss them, not that you're reading to us because we're not illiterate that you have to read to us the amendments that we've submitted. [[Agreement: The government's record!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40837	They'll give you an explanation, a record, be patient with the record. Representatives and representatives' clubs who have submitted amendments to the Rules of Procedure for these amendments shall be discussed and may only be discussed by the person who submitted them. Only the one who put up with them. All those clubs and MPs who have submitted the amendments are well aware of and should not be particularly required to share with them the amendments they have submitted. The ones they put up with. It's always been that way. The amendment. That's an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40838	We have submitted 40 amendments and we cannot know what Minister Shuker is discussing. And the practice has been so far that the MP gets his amendments on the table, that they have their number and that they can be monitored. We're looking for a break on behalf of the Club for half an hour!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40839	I'm setting a 10-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I'd like a representative of Mr Branimir Glavas' Independent List Club to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40841	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. ... No, that's what they turn off so they don't shoot. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40842	What about the microphone?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40843	You've turned it off, Mr. President, according to your old custom. Dear Mr. President, do you copy, colleagues and colleagues? What is happening tonight is the highlight of the farce in this Croatian Parliament which has not been recorded in the last 15 years. Indeed, it was not recorded in the first 10 years when there were no rare situations of haughtiness and behaviour for which HDZ had indeed received labels for a reason and therefore paid the bill on 3 January. Discuss amendments to the budget on budget rebalancing and that professional services and also responsible people from the Croatian Government do not make an effort for MPs to get before them the amendment of their fellow MPs is indeed the highlight of the irresponsibility and dissuasion of this Croatian Parliament. Therefore, my colleagues and colleagues are obliged to take this opportunity, given that I am together with my colleagues, and not only myself, unable to hear how many amendments I have submitted and how much we have submitted to this budget rebalance to say from this pay phone. We have submitted a club of Independent Representatives 42 amendments weighing between 330 and 350 million kunas aware that they will be rejected, aware that they will not pass, and that they will not get the green light, but we were not aware and we did not believe that it could happen that the Minister of Finance who has been smoothly refusing and discussing the amendments corresponds and refuses to the amendment that he has no idea what he is talking about, because there is no draft amendment of the MPs he is discussing. I think it is the height of impudence and the peak of irresponsible behaviour towards this Croatian Parliament, but it goes to the soul and to the expense of those who have the majority and who direct the debate in this House. I express my dissatisfaction, express a debate that has been debated and debated about amendments that have not been on the benches, which have been filed during this break and placed on the benches and on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, so I announce and file a constitutional suit against this kind of work, against this way of adopting and rejecting the amendments, and probably this way of adopting the full rebalancing of this budget. On behalf of the club, I give up my statement on the amendments that we have submitted, and this is 42 amendments that weigh 330 to 350 million kuna, because this is all expensive funny, this is all expensive, this is a mockery of this High House, a mockery of Croatian MPs, as well as a mockery of the Croatian electoral body and Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40844	Thank you very much. We have one amendment, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40845	Mr. President, he's hurt here tonight and there's still a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 175(3). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Similarly, pursuant to Article 167(2), and here there were members of the Constitution Committee who had warned of consent, i.e. the authorisation or non-authorisation of certain amendments, and where such a case occurs, as ordered by the provision of Article 167(2). The constitution should then be directed to resolve the matter by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40846	Thank you very much. I disagree with your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40847	I was just reading the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40848	Yes, you have read the Rules of Procedure but in the case of budget rebalancing, the provision of Article 175(3) shall not apply. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40849	Then what?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40850	It's listening when I say, I've listened carefully to you too. And also Article 167(2), I only apply the clear letter of the Rules of Procedure. We have an amendment which is by mistake, which has not been voted upon, which is suitable for a vote, which has not come, it is the amendment of the respected representative of Biserka Perman. I'm asking the Minister of Finance to keep an eye on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40851	Wait, how can you interpret this?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40852	I can do that. Here you go. Ministers, please be clear about the amendment of Councilwoman Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40853	The government does not accept the amendment because it believes the proposed funds of 150 thousand kuna are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40854	Honorable representative, Pearl Perman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40855	Thank you very much. In light of the budget when we made a budget in November last year, it was said that it was very important to encourage sport as a prerequisite for the remaining young population on the islands. This is in itself sufficient reason to accept such an amendment, noting that it should indeed record the state of sport on the islands and support those environments that already have developed sporting activities as well as those that have just begun. In view of the number of islands, the estimated amount is really minor and would really not have any effect, if it were to be achieved at all. In fact, if they were represented by this amount, they would receive about 200, 300 kuna, which is not even a symbolic amount. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40856	Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40857	Mr. President, given your claim that budget rebalancing is not carried out by the same procedure as budgeting, although earlier reading the Rules of Procedure said: "and so is budget rebalance", so you interpreted. One time an interpretation is that allowed when it suits you, another time this interpretation is not allowed when it also suits you. However, you are in conflict with the Budget Law, in particular Article 32(2), which says, quote: "The amendments and the additions of the budget are implemented under the budget procedure." I'm announcing that we're going to make a big legal fuss about breaking the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40858	Thank you very much. I am voting on the Amendments and Supplements to the 2005 Budget. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 80 votes for and 41 against amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 being adopted in the text proposed by the Government. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the Budget Act to vote on the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 80 votes in favour and 41 against the proposed decision being made. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the amendments and additions of the Croatian Employment Institute's financial plan for 2005. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 80 votes for, 40 against, one abstention is a proposed decision and I am voting on the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2005 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters? Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 81 votes for, 40 against, one abstention, the proposed decision has been made. We have another proposal for a conclusion of the Legislative Committee: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out the revision of the State Budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2005 and before its publication in the National Journal. Please, who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the conclusion was accepted 82 votes in favour, 5 against and 34 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40861	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget provides that the provisions of the laws of the State may be in charge of the country and abroad within the scope of the law and the law governing the implementation of the annual budget shall determine the above amount of new borrowing as well as the obligation on the basis of the current repayment of the sovereign debt and the short-term debt. So given the changes in the budget, we propose in Article 1 that the sum of 12 billion 189 million be replaced by 12 billion and 830 million, and in paragraph 5, instead of the sum of 12 billion and 50 million, an amount of 11 billion and 787 million is put in place. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is predicted that the Government can be further debted up to the amount of unsecured receipts from the sale of shares and shares in the capital of the so-called so-called. "Mosing with a loan". And what has caused the most debate on committees, and everything is that the government is proposed to be able to decide on a proposal from the ministry to redistribute the funds for operating expenditure and to obtain non-financial assets under the budget of the planned funds and expenditures. I will say here with full responsibility as Minister of Finance, given that the Governments did so before this and that there was a policy of what happened in the 2004 budget, but if we are to be correct and look at it from the professional side, then this article is 40a. only one real reflection and picture and display of public finances in the Republic of Croatia. When we have the strength to discuss programmes in the budget and when the budget is planned in several basic groups: wages, material expenditures, subsidies, donations, other transfers of payment and capital investment and when these topics are discussed in the budget, not how much it went for car tyres, for this or that material cost for political reasons, and when the basis for the budget will be the programmes that the ministers and the budget users will set up, then be convinced that this provision of Article 40a will be the only element for budget control. It won't be necessary. But I repeat, if this is to be discussed later, this is a provision used by the former government, and I am sorry that when we are discussing these issues, I am setting myself up by the system that was allowed for you and then we come up with some irrational discussions, but I repeat when we have the strength to base a programme like other countries, and that on this basis we are planning a budget that will make it much easier for us to see whether 100 kunas for toilet paper have gone there or here, but the programmes will be the basis for discussion of the budget, and also the basis for budget implementation and then, according to the budget, it will be seen whether all programming activities have been carried out or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40862	Thank you very much. Do the workbody reporters want to report back? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Cube of HSS Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. He's gone. The club's losing the right to debate. Individual Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone, too. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40863	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I want only two aspects of this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget to point out and appeal above all specifically to this proposal for the text of the law. I disagree with Article 40a. but I am convinced that he will be such a voted so I appeal and in that sense I have submitted the amendment, that what the Government believes should have the right, such a right equally to the heads of the local (regional) regional self-government units, as the minister himself said in his opening statement that public finances are in the same state as they are, we assume, therefore, those relating to the units of local self-government. It is obviously a transitional solution and I personally think it is not good, but when we have it, then let's respect the local self-government units in the same way as the state takes some rights for itself and otherwise it would be good if in the future when we adopt the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget everywhere where we give some right to the Government we tell either in transitional or in the final provisions that this law is properly applied to the heads of state and that we give them such a right. And the second thing I want to show my dissatisfaction is that the state is raising the general government deficit from 3.7 to 4.2 this law on the implementation of the state budget, and also by budget rebalance. However, the state does not give the right and does not raise those 16% possibility for local self-government units to be in charge. Local self-government units have an extremely small share of debt in the general government deficit. We cut it with the original Law on the implementation of the state budget, and I think it was correct to allow them for 16% of how much the state takes for itself now a greater deficit of the general government that in such a proportionate share we allow local self-government units to be in debt because they are in the same difficult situation, or in the same situation, someone says that it is difficult, that good as the state has the need to finance development projects, they have no such possibility of flexible financing it, they have a very complicated system of borrowing, and then this complicated system is still limited in that it is, ultimately, that if we exclude HBOR and funds this year, it is not subject to some 350 million, so nothing would happen if we had raised that by about 50, 60 or 100 million more, or proportionally, as much as the state raises from 3.7 to 4.2, but unfortunately it is not subject to this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40864	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ante Markov, he's not losing his right 10 minutes. Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, she is not there either. Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain, she's not here either. Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I haven't written an amendment this time because it's really just a waste of time, but I want to repeat exactly what I was saying about the 2004 budget rebalancing, adequately to amend and supplement the law on the implementation of the State budget when this is actually added to this article 40a. If we go to look at these five amendments and additions, what is it? Thus, the possibility of a debt of 640 million kuna is increased, while Article 1 reduces funds for the principal of debt and interest by 262 million kuna. Article 2 states that it is in fact ensured that if there is no revenue from the sale of shares so that it can be additionally indemnified for nearly another billion kunas to which the proceeds from the assets are planned, a billion and a half should also be taken into account in relation to those 12 billion and 830 million kuna referred to in Article 1. Then only sanctioning what is in the budget is already implemented through the rebalancing process, which is that by 5 million kuna, the funds are reduced to HBOR. And now this controversial Article 40a in Article 4. In fact, this was also the case in the implementation of the budget for last year, and it is now still relativeized here, and it is said that the government will be able to redistribute funds for operating expenditure and to obtain non-financial assets under the budget plans. What does that mean? The operating costs of this budget rebalance amount to 87 billion 635 million kuna. This is what the accountants say about class 3 salaries, material expenditure on financial expenditures, subsidies, assistance given abroad and within the general state, insurance-based fees, pensions and other citizen benefits, other expenditures. And this second group of expenditures, for the acquisition of non-financial assets that are this rebalancing plan at 2 billion kunas 186 million, so 90 billion kunas can be redistributed in such a way. However, this paragraph 2 to me is nothing to me, because it is said that the government will inform the Parliament within 15 days of the day of making such a decision. Which means informing the Parliament, you don't even have to report much more important things, so for example this 2004 commitment, so I expect that in 2005, where the government is said to be bound by half-yearly and annually to report to the Parliament on how much tax and contribution payment has been delayed, we haven't received such a report in addition to the half-yearly and annual budget accounts, we haven't received it from a colleague, Mr. Minister. I only received an answer to the parliamentary question that it was only one company, you could have given such a report to the Parliament not only to me on the parliamentary issue. We passed the Budget Law two years ago, applied for two years, but every year we actually try to apply it to a lesser extent. This Regulation shall enter The budget law in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall state when possible and how much redistribution can be made in this way. Therefore, it says that the appropriations cannot be redistributed, except under the conditions and in the manner laid down by this Act and by law or by a decision on the implementation of the budget. It was certainly not meant by the adoption of a budget law that the entire budget could be redistributed, but by saying in the following paragraph that it is exceptional if the redistribution is not carried out in accordance with paragraph 1 that such redistribution of up to 5% of expenditure on an item that is reduced if it is approved by the Minister of Finance. So it certainly wasn't an emergency that nearly 99% of the government's budget could redistribute independently of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, voting for the second year in a row, for these amendments and additions to the Budget Law, we deprived ourselves of our right and our obligation to adopt a state budget so that we can control its implementation, as it happened with the 2004 budget, we saw a few days ago when we discussed the annual budget calculation, so this will be at the end of the budget of the Government that adopted the Government, not the budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament, of course I will not vote for such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40866	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40867	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The contentious article of the 40th and the manner of the Minister's oral explanation is something that should be startled by each of us here, we really need to be appalled. Not that the minister in his opening statement tried to say it was a practice from earlier times, not the minister said as long as we have this way of showing the budget, while with this methodology we have in the Republic of Croatia the Government will take the right Article 40a. Therefore, not that he taught the former government a lesson which is acceptable because they are political opponents, he is trying to tell us that we are responsible for why we have this structure of the budget, because it is so detailed where car tires are numbered, and that is impossible to determine by the government budget, then the Government will take that right. Mr. Minister pointed that out in his opening statement. I would like to make it very clear that the draft budget for 2004 and for 2005 is the Ministry of Finance, according to us the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No one has defended the Government in two years to change the methodology to really identify different positions, to be modern and European in some way if it assesses that the existing methodology is not good and essentially carries the burden of responsibility of the Croatian Government if it has not changed the methodology, and that is why the Croatian Assembly will punish us also members of the Croatian Parliament under Article 40a. Therefore, when and who means to change the methodology that the Croatian government could simply respect constitutional commitment and constitutional commitment says that we are the ones responsible for the adoption of the budget and the Croatian Government for its implementation. Therefore, indeed, as a parliamentary representative, it is difficult for them to accept these arguments of the Croatian government, which was guided by the proposal of Article 40a. It's also not true that it's the same as it used to be now. With this Article 40a. The Croatian government allows itself to redistribute complete expenditures. It used to be limited to 5%, and inside I would say the same items. Today, the government is providing itself with a complete change of budget for this year. This article allows itself to do so because there are no fences or restrictions at the height of the change in items. But it is not only that it enables itself to redistribute, it enables itself to make a budget because its obligation is only to inform the Croatian Parliament of the changes made to the Croatian budget. So we are really wondering if we are aware that we do not have the right to give up responsibility for determining the budget, that we do not have the right to deny that we are very clearly trying to say what the policy of the parliamentary majority is in the way of spending the funds and what is the responsibility of the parliamentary majority of policy-making that will be addressed to the economy, growth rates, competitiveness of that economy that will also be turned to social policy. We don't have the right to transfer it to executive power, we don't really have the right but by bringing in Article 40a, the amendment to Article 40a. we simply give up these commitments to set up budgetary policies in 2005. I think it's necessary to think carefully about whether or not we're going to accept a solution like this. We are in the seventh month of 2005 which means another five-and-a-half months until the end of the year. It is evident that the Government does not need such a provision in the Law on the implementation of the state budget or of such enormous powers. I wouldn't say power. Even the rights that there is not even constitutionally available, especially if we take an uninterrupted session, that there's no reason not to expect us to be incessantly sitting with autumn, the beginning of the autumn session. Therefore, after 15.9. again in full composition. Therefore, what are the reasons why the government does not want to rebalance the needs again before the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public because if we remember in 2004, none of us were familiar with the redistribution in 12 months 2004, none of the Croatian public was informed that the Croatian government had made significant redistributions. No, we learned that on the final report on the 2004 budget a few days ago. Simply powerless to do anything. This is the difference which means redistributing reporting and which means the government's responsibility to report both to the public and to us members of the Croatian Parliament. It is evident that what still needs to be noted really in this law lacks the right unit of local self-government to be in charge and something more. They're not given that right, even though we can see it's a deficit that's increasing. Why isn't that given right? Why is there no right to develop in the Republic of Croatia? Why is it not given the right that units of local self-government can also accumulate that is not their own, which is not currently achieved by revenue to enable the development of its environment and allow citizens in local self-government to feel simply benefit from investment projects. No, I don't. We also don't have that will and we don't give them the right for one reason only. Because the deficit only goes into consumption, not development. And of course, I also don't see why the government wouldn't limit the possibility of borrowing unless there was enough dividends when we were talking about using dividends to cover the total deficit. Therefore, in that part too, we can amend and restrict the government's right to be in charge if there is not enough dividend. All these reasons are that this small law, with only a few articles in it, shows how much responsibility is put before parliamentary representatives if the raise of hands accepts an article that regulates Article 40a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40868	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary, Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40869	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Representative did not object to having a personal discussion. However, good luck leaves written records of past times, so I'll start with what happened in 2003 when you take care of local self-government units today. You were the Deputy Prime Minister back then. In the Budget Implementation Act, you banned any responsibility for local self-government units and only with the budget rebalancing in the 10th month you allowed, and the basis of that task was two, three units of local self-government, they did not have. So, then local self-government units weren't supposed to be in debt, then local self-government units weren't supposed to develop anything. Mr. Linic, you have also imposed a ban on the borrowing of local self-government units for the control of deficits. So if, then, you were in such a position when you didn't allow any debt at all, and today this law allows units of local self-government to be in charge of 300 million kuna, then I don't understand how great it was when they weren't supposed to be in charge and today when they can be in charge of 300 million dollars today it's no good. But I'm saying, everyone thinks about their times, and in general this article 40a, we can just realize how it was and how it is today. The second thing, I have to correct you again, unfortunately, in the law on the implementation of the budget, is not to provide for borrowing unless you charge dividends, but it is to be... It may be additionally indemnified if it fails to obtain receipts from the sale of shares and shares in the principal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is, those privatisation revenues that are neutral about the deficit but are very important in whether these funds will finance the deficit, which is why I have to correct you for the record and for everything. And as for this, I'd like to ask you colleagues just a little bit. As for this article in 40, I will read the report of the State Audit for 2003, and you will see how the same provisions of Article 40 have been used by the former Government. So, in the report of the state audit, I literally quote: "The three billion kunas without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament have been redistributed, (which is permitted by the existing regulation). But the records of this are not in line and the control is difficult." It's a state audit report for the 2003 budget. According to the 2004 state audit report, 33 decisions on redistributions were made in 2004 which redistributed the budget of 3 billion and 200 million, a total of 3.2% of the budget's planned funds. But at the same time, it is said that in 2003 3,109 billion were redistributed, and so one is placed in the same basket. However, on the other side of that same report, the revision of the State budget for 2003 found that individual decisions on redistribution were incomplete, i.e. other than individual increases, i.e. the reduction of plans under paragraphs do not have a total number of increases and reductions although they have several pages of the paragraphs. Which was done in 2004. So it's not about any newspaper of this government, it's about something that was common. And that's why I told Mr. Linic that this clearly reflects the state of public finances. And nothing else. And I dared to be free to read a quote about the programming way of forming the budget that most European countries think, but your obvious understanding and thinking is going in the other direction. My thinking is going in this direction and perhaps the 2007 budget will be proposed in this direction. But I repeat, pure colleagues and colleagues that in 2003, in a far less transparent way, this redistribution was made, but we also introduced a newspaper in Article 40a. and this is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will report to the Parliament within 15 days if it comes for the redistribution referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 40, so nothing is new, it is something that has been practiced since the time the new Budget Act was adopted in 2002 and this Law was implemented in 2003. And so I say, speaking in such a way that there was a report on the implementation of the 2004 budget and not remembering what they were doing in 2003 is at least ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40870	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40871	It is incorrect that Mr. Minister says it is common, that the redistribution is common and tries to set an example from 2003. Sam says that that's how 3.2, two billion were redistributed, which is within the Budget Act of Articles 38 to 5%, and you yourself said it's below 5%. Now, by accepting Article 40a, there is the possibility of redistributing the entire budget of 90 billion kuna, which is 100% of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40872	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Representative Mršić submitted the amendment. Minister, please choose to show yourself to that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40874	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs Mršić has submitted an amendment to re-applying funds under the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The government accepts the amendment because we believe that the same rights regarding redistribution should be given to units of local, regional (regional) self-government as the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40875	Thank you very much. Amendment accepted. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I'm voting on the bill. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the law was passed by 82 votes to 39 against and one abstention. The proposal to show confidence to Ivica Kirin for the duties of Interior Minister was submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ivo Sanader. The Prime Minister delivered the report on the discharge of Marijan Mlinaric's duties as interior minister. I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, to take his word. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40877	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Minister of the former Marijan Mlinarić asked me to relieve him of his duties as Minister of the Interior for health reasons, I want to thank him in this occasion in the Croatian Parliament for his well-timed duties over the past year and a half. And I accepted his request and resolved him, sent a notice to the Croatian Parliament, and in his place we propose the mayor of the so far, or still the mayor of Virovitica, Mr. Ivica Kirin. It is a politician who has just begun the second term of mayor in the centre of Virovitica-Podravna County. After a crisis in the city council and early elections took place sometime in the middle of the term of office, then on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community, Ivica Kirin won, formed the city power and successfully acted as mayor by solving the accumulated financial problems and other problems that the county centre and our city had in the past term. It should be said that the financial problems of the city were solved that several infrastructure projects were launched as a detour of Virovitica, etc., in all of this Kirin had the main word and ran the city very well. This is not my assessment of ladies and gentlemen, this is the assessment of those who are the only competent to give reviews of all of us who are in politics and who are in public life and who have this honor and duty to serve Croatian and Croatian citizens in politics Croatia and Croatian citizens in politics. So it's about the citizens who gave that grade in the last local elections. On May 15th, Ivica Kirin led the Croatian Democratic Union's list of absolute majority of the town's mandates and formed a new city power. It's about a young man who was born in 1970. I'm not going to say everything in his resume. You can see this from the materials attached but it is certain that it is a successful politician, a young politician who can successfully deal with this great and responsible task of the Home Secretary. It's a very important portfolio. It's about a resort where there's a lot more to do. First of all, I'm going to say that it remains our firm commitment, a severe crime charge of every kind, especially organised crime. That the obligation to introduce order also remains in other segments and in other departments of the Ministry of the Interior and I am convinced that Ivica Kirin will act very well. I believe that at the age of 35 and is no longer as young as it would be, as it would say, but certainly falls if it wasn't the youngest minister in the government but either the youngest or the youngest one, in any case, it was about a promising and good politician who showed himself leading an important city like Virovitica but also in a political life that was extremely active with, as we prepared and his candidacy he told me that he was also working in the best way with the Ministry of the Interior in that area that we all want the police to become friends of citizens so that he formed in the city along with the institution of the city's MUP, the county level formed exactly that way the cooperation of citizens, the MUP and local authorities. From everything I have concluded and requested, I request the support of the Croatian Parliament to the future minister as we see him, Ivica Kirina, Minister of the Interior, to support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40878	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40879	So here's the future great interest and yet it's about the Minister of the Interior I think there's something to be said. First, I agree with the finding that it's better to have any Home Secretary than not to have him at all. We don't have a Minister of the Interior at this time, unfortunately. We know he's been on sick leave for a long time, and we know what their situation is within the Ministry of the Interior and what reforms need to be implemented. The first thing I think is, what's important is to say that whoever won the election has the right to propose a government, but also has a responsibility. It means responsibility if he proposes to be a minister. Therefore, responsibility in this case to the Prime Minister. It's been a long time since it's been calculated. It's been waiting a long time for who to be the new minister and now the Prime Minister has proposed. I would have been more pleased if you, Mr. Prime Minister, had said that he would behave perfectly, not very well. That would be more satisfying. I can say from the point of view of the Croatian party right because we in the area of the town of Virovitica had great cooperation and from that point of view I support Mr Kirin because cooperation was for the benefit of Croatian citizens, residents of the town of Virovitica. If it's going to work that way, I think we'll have a far better minister than we have now. But in the future, I think Croatia will have to make sure that people who already have a lot of knowledge about the areas they cover come to the post of ministers. It is the position of the Croatian party of law and the Croatian party of rights thus frames its people. So I think it's important for anyone else, even though it's most likely that we're going to be acting on this duty, we should have prepared people who will be able to act on those duties. All these solutions that have been happening in our government so far have been talking about just filling the void. In order for us to put into office the state administration and the resources of the people who operate these restaurants must be able to manage, but they must know the area they cover. And that's what we need to insist on, and that's what's going to restore citizens' trust, above all, in the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, in the activities of the police. I therefore wish Mr. Kirin much happiness and success in new jobs, but I believe that future appointments of ministers must be kept in mind that these functions are handled by people who know at least as well as their assistants so that they are sovereignly ruling the area, not that it takes every one from six months to one year to get into trouble and when they get into trouble, the elections come in and the man settles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40880	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, a five-minute debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40881	Five minutes. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know Mr. Kirin, so I don't want to bring anything personal about him. I wish him a lot of luck at that job. I also want him to be more effective than the predecessors, or even though his predecessor Mr. Mlinarić was certainly a good man, a good man was, but he was not an effective interior minister. I also want that the future interior minister is not dependent on Croatia's entry into the European Union, I mean here primarily on Gotovina. I wish him maximum efficiency on the issue. I want the citizens to feel safe. I want you to find the destroyers, like Partisan monuments. To announce those who brought down nearly 3,000 of those monuments. I want less accidents on the roads, but I want you to push for the elimination of that absurd standard of 0,0% more than pilots can drive aircraft with 0.2% and sailors with 0.5%. And finally it's harmful to the state budget. Croatia is a relatively safe country. The credit for that is certainly on the police force, all the ministers who have been so far. That's for sure. But the underworld, this organized crime that the prime minister was talking about, certainly works. The fact is that the Serbian and Croatian mafia is also cooperating. I want everything that's going on in these carefree homes to be made public from Bezovica via Pula to Lugo. What was mentioned in public about Pula certainly stands. There's a lot of drugs in there. Who does he lead and so on and act against this pedophile as rigorously as possible? Especially to take care of drugs. Year after year, there's more and more drugs on our streets. He's getting more and more addicts. For them, I get the impression that everyone knows in our places and that the police are kind of silent. Announcing the war on the drug mafia, as the Prime Minister says to organised crime. IDS is known not to vote for ministers, but we both wish the ministers and the Government a lot of success because the failure of any minister or government will also be the failure of this House, and thus the Republic of Croatia, and clearly we do not want it. Be also ministers, future ministers of pardon, effective when the issue of Croatian citizens who are not Croatian nationalities is effective. Be effective about granting work permits. Thousands of jobs can be opened. Croatian citizens do not accept these jobs, and our craftsmen mainly do not receive work permits in construction. And I want you to end up fighting for better police status. Here I mean first of all material status, I mean here on salary, because being a successful minister is only possible if you have satisfied police officers. If they are not satisfied with their material under quotes "satisfactory" then the ministry as such will not be effective. I wish you no matter how the IDS club votes, good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40882	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We should go to the vote. In order to show confidence, most of the votes of all MPs, at least 77, Article 109, are required. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. President of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40883	I would pray the same as if all MPs didn't have the keys, to raise their hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40884	Thank you very much. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Decision to show confidence to Ivica Kirina, Minister of the Interior. Please, who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 80 votes for, 23 abstentions, Croatia has voted in confidence with Ivica Kirina, Minister of the Interior. We will now move on to the oath of a member of the government, because, after a trust has been expressed, a member of the government, the minister should be sworn in. [[Applause.]] I will read the text of the oath: I swear that I will exercise my duties as a member of the Government knowingly and honorably, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order, and advocate any progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Minister Ivica Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40885	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40886	Thank you. I congratulate the Minister of Interior, Minister Kirin, on the trust that the Croatian Parliament has shown him, and I wish him, like all of us, a lot of success in his work. [[Applause.]] Let's go to the next point: - Final bill on amendments to the Law on Public Assembly, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 333. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. In establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Law which unites both readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, internal policy and national security. You received the reports at the session. I ask State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40888	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament before you is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Assembly. During the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Assembly, there were several reasons for this proposal. The Ministry of Internal Affairs must apply certain security standards to persons and institutions listed in the Regulation on the establishment of counterintelligence protection and the provision of certain persons, facilities and space. And in order for the MUP to apply these prescribed safety standards, it was necessary to adopt certain amendments to the law as proposed in the text submitted to you. I would also like to stress that the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Assembly have reached consensus on the Social Economic Council of all social partners. It is also important to point out that this amendment to the law, in line with the Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Rights and the Protocol of the Council of europe No. 146711, which entered into force in the Republic of Croatia on 5 November 97, which says that there cannot be any restrictions on the exercise of the right to freedom of peaceful gathering and freedom of association with others other than those prescribed by the Law and which are necessary for a democratic society for the sake of the interests of national security or public order and peace in order to prevent riots and crimes. Therefore, these proposed amendments to the amendments and the amendments to the law are in accordance with this Convention, also respect the basic constitutional principles which recognise the right to public gathering, which guarantee freedom of opinion and expression of thought, if any invitation or encouragement to war or the use of violence against national, racial or religious hatred or any form of intolerance is prohibited. Therefore, the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Public Collection have been respected and the international norms governing this matter have been respected and respected, and we believe that the proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior will be given the possibility to apply security standards on the protection of protected persons and objects that are common in all democratic states of the world, so this was the basic and sole reason for the proposed amendment of the Law on Public Assembly and we believe that it is indeed in the spirit of all these international acts that regulate that matter with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40889	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee, the rapporteur, President Florian Boras, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40890	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at its 47th session held on 12 July this year discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly with the final draft law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 8 July 2005. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this Act by an urgent procedure. On the final proposal of the Committee of the Texts of the Law, the Committee has no objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40891	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President Drazen Bosnjakovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40892	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly at the 38th session held on 12 July 2005. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the Bill's proposal, in particular regarding the determination of objects and spaces and persons protected. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of votes of 6 votes in favour and 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40893	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President Ivan Jarnjak please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40894	Your Honor, Mr. President. On 12 July 2005, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 8 July 2005, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Proposed Law adopted by emergency procedure. The Committee supported the proposal of the motion to adopt this law by emergency procedure because it considers that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the Committee also supported the opinion delivered by the proposing representatives and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. In the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40895	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP Club, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40896	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On June 10th, media released, the government decided to amend public gathering laws prohibiting protests in Mark's square from an emergency procedure and to refer to a regular parliamentary debate. There is news to the members of the Economic and Social Council, trade unions and employers that I brought Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who just because of the disputed law appeared before the social partners. On the same day, the media conveys a statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, that the government does not want to do anything in secret and is therefore ready to open up as wide as possible the context of the debate. So, when the government withdrew the proposal last time, I can even say the proposal of the contested law said publicly that it would make a new proposal which, after the debate, will be referred to a regular parliamentary procedure, I suppose we know what it means, it means to do the first and second reading of the Law, because yet the proposal then experienced the most frequent attacks from the ruling party's ranks. Of all these announcements, the only thing remains is that the government has received the truth in the meantime union support primarily, i.e. union centres, the truth not all, 5 out of 6 of them, for these changes but still today under a slightly dubious quorum in the Assembly decided to go to an emergency procedure with the bill, and we have witnessed that somehow in the last month a change of opinion has been made regarding the procedure in connection with the amendment of this bill. Here we are today at 9:30 after a full-day debate on budget rebalancing. I must say to us, at the SDP Club, it seems very convenient that with the proposal to amend this Act and yet restrict the right to peaceful protests and public gatherings, I am talking primarily here about our square Mark, that it comes from those who until yesterday, while in opposition, were able to help protest tents on the same square, and they were encouraged by some in the area outside the government building to remind the rest of them for more than a year. Of course, today’s ruling party did not mind, though it was highly desirable. Of course, we realize that in the meantime, the circumstances have changed, and today it is difficult to listen to whistles and protests when you are tableing on the other side of Mark’s square. However, unlike colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, we in the SDP and when we are in opposition, we want to be and are responsible. In fact, we at the SDP Club, too, think that this little space of Mark's square would take as much time to introduce a little order. And we are aware of the fact that it is very difficult, of course, to reconcile two contradictory principles in the draft amendments to this law. On the one hand, the right of citizens, people to express their views, their opinions, their demands to peaceful protests and public gatherings. So, in a very democratic way, they express their disagreement with power. And on the other hand, we are aware that there is a government responsibility for the security of public institutions, for the safety of their representatives, especially at these times when we are witnessing various terrorist attacks in Europe. And when I'm here, please, Proposer, warn. In the light of the bill, you put the date of September 11, 2003, the attack was September 11, 2001. However, I repeat that we at the SDP Club do not actually see any reason for this proposal to go through an emergency procedure. We propose that this proposal be discussed in a regular parliamentary procedure, the more the session of the Parliament ends this week, the summer period. And besides, gentlemen, here I remind you, we all know that Mark's square is mostly closed, it's about a month after the workers of Sljemen left and some other protests were announced. The square is closed, it's already fenced by good work today, apparently according to the information we have there are being excavated archaeologically. These excavations, we know, can very much stretch out, can last and, in fact, there's no reason for an emergency procedure. However, with the law already in place, I would like to make concrete comments and suggestions made by the SDP Club. As far as the amendments to Article 1 of the Law are concerned, we support the erasure of subparagraph 4 which deletes the provision of a ban on the maintenance of peaceful gatherings and protests near cultural monuments from the current law. However, we warn if we accept the new subparagraph of 6 proposed here to limit the protest to at least 100 metres from the Croatian Parliament, the Government, the President of the State and the Constitutional Court, then we ask for the adoption of the amendment of the club that will be submitted in the course of the debate, which will be attached, which is that, in the follow-up to this subparagraph, I quote "at least 100 meters from the facilities in which the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia" and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia are situated and the words are added: "unless the organiser of the meeting has special approval for a number of public protest participants or gatherings for a certain time". Furthermore, in some ways we would allow certain gatherings in certain situations at the time when it is approved. Furthermore, we are explicitly at the club against the fact that paragraph 2 is added in paragraph 1 which is proposed as follows: "In the case referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the provision of Article 4(1) of this Act does not apply in the section determining the number of participants in the gathering.". Namely, I remind you. Article 1(4) states: "A peaceful gathering and public protest involves every organised gathering of more than 20 people held for public expression and promotion of political, social and national beliefs and goals." which means that according to the Government's proposal, at the premises of Mark's square, each individual or group of people, two, three, five of them up to 20 would now be considered a danger to the safety of state institutions and state authorities because it is analyzed by this proposal by this number of 20. So, practically anyone who goes through one, two, three, five of them can be rated as the one that threatens security. This would mean, in other words, colleagues and colleagues, that when we come to the Parliament building for a session or members of the government when they come to the building across the street from Mark's square, no one could come, let's say, to hand over some flyer with their protest, some kind of petition or something like that. We disagree, and our amendment suggests that this new item 2 be deleted or that eventually the Government finds some different way to allow individuals and groups to still be allowed to come and share flyers. Finally, as the SDP Club, we do not support Article 2 of the amendment, which adds a new point 6 to Article 22 of the existing law and which is that there is a real direct danger to the health of participants or other persons. What does that mean? Article 22 speaks out when an authorised official of the MUP can prevent or interrupt a peaceful gathering and a public protest, so it is listed if the protest is not reported or banned, if it is held at a place which is not mentioned in the application, if one of the participants is armed with a peaceful gathering or protest, if participants call or encourage war or use of violence, on national, racial or religious hatred or any form of intolerance, if the monks cannot maintain order and peace, if there is a serious direct death from violence and other forms of serious disturbance of public order and peace. And now the government is proposing to enter a new item that will read if there is a real direct danger to the health of participants or other persons. We at the SDP Club are asking the question how will the official authorised person assess that there is a risk to the health of the participants in the protest. What does that mean? Now I'm going to caricate, lead to absurdity. Does that mean that if the sun frys the protestor doesn't have a hat on his head, someone will estimate that he might faint, it's not good for his health. Or it's raining, there's no umbrella, and the participant could get pneumonia, so it's a threat to his health. I mean, it has to be said in this kind of cartoon way that it would actually express a certain nonsense of this article. We, too, propose to the SDP Club that the proposed amendment should be deleted. So, finally, he repeats, as the SDP Club, we are aware that, as I said, two principles must try to reconcile, but we believe that this bill too, that it can be completed, that there is no need at all to go into emergency procedure, that it can go to first and second reading, that it can still try to reconcile, eventually respect our remarks. And the only respect for our amendments will actually condition our acceptance of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40897	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to say a few words about this ban on gathering in Mark's square. In fact, when we had the first text in front of us, which was withdrawn from the procedure, three controversial moments were present, and this was a formulation of banning public gatherings near buildings in which any state government institution had its seats, monuments of culture also as an absolute ban, and in that proposal, the ban on gathering also referred to individual protests. The explanation then and now is that it is about the bill solely for security reasons. I must say that the three objectives set out in this proposal have been fully achieved. In fact, the first goal is to definitely and ultimately completely prohibit any public gathering in St. Mark and Pantochuck, anytime, anyone or anyone. If by not saying 100 metres from the headquarters of the Government, the Parliament and the Constitutional Court then the rights of the official to prohibit or order the termination of the already started public gathering. The second goal that is fully met is the following, the Government and we in the Assembly are absolutely safe from all forms of showing workers' dissatisfaction or groups of other citizens who would have something to tell us that we would not like or that we could hardly listen to. Therefore, after the adoption of this Law, it is indeed true that full security has been achieved from disrupting anyone who in this State is unsatisfactory. However, this objective is also achieved with passive support from some who, apart from HDZ, have mostly organised public gatherings in Mark’s square, and I suppose the reason was that, at the same time, between the social partners, this Bill Proposal and the Bill on Associations that should define some of the assets of some associations, so we discussed the revision of the Labour Act, some contributions to solidarity and the devil, and Mark’s market and demonstrations on Mark’s square if we are to address these two essential issues. And the third goal has indeed been achieved because by this move we are all possible, don't give God the international terrorist network that could carry out any attack on buildings in Mark's square to put them in a position that they can no longer get close and the security is complete. It is true that defining the idea nearby using the experience of some other European countries, turning it into meters is good. However, these 100 meters is quite a rare example used as a security measure, some of our neighbors have 30 meters, 40, 60, 80. So, the very definition that this is about 100 meters, the premises of the Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court are actually giving me what I had previously claimed to be the goal of Mark's square. However, this Law does not address the two possible security and commuting dangers from one, the other and the third sides of Mark’s square. What about tourists? In fact, there are an increasing number of tourists in Mark's square who are still walking uninterruptedly, even this green fence does not prevent them from peeking at the entrances to Parliament and government. And what about the citizens of Zagreb who are also walking freely through Mark's square and they hope they're not a security threat to anyone? And finally, I ask the following, how will the police do if five groups of 20 people who have no intention of giving a public speech are gathered in Mark's square? Five groups of 20 people in Mark’s square want to say something without speech, posters, and flyers. Will that also be forbidden by the extensive interpretation of this Law, or will it be interpreted as a security threat? I understand that the protocolal reasons may sometimes be because of the discomfort of the hosts but then we had to seek a solution for protocol reasons rather than an absolute ban that applies even when the government is on vacation, as well as the Parliament on vacation. We have not written amendments because we will not pass and we will not vote for this bill, because it is indeed only in the direction that none of the dissatisfied citizens will be able to come under our doors and windows and tell us what they think among other things and the quality of the law that we are passing in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40899	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40900	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. President, We're not children, but I don't think a law like this should be discussed at 9:00 and 46 minutes. There's no transmission, they're going to take vacations, and they're going to forget everything. However, this is a delicate topic to exclude the public. And I'll be completely open, maybe I'll speak differently from my predecessors me to the government on a grudge too much that she settled with the unions. But I resent the unions very much. Why? Because it's St. John's Square. Mark the sacred place of Croatian democracy, St. Marka is the sacred place of Croatian Parliamentism, St. Marka is a sacred place of Croatian statehood. And that place gentlemen should be kept unsullied with this or without these unions. Better put it with these union leaders or without them. But the problem after this is far greater than our union scene has been spent. I find the employer's position quite clear to me. That's no problem, the problem here is unions. I agree with what Mrs. Dejanovic said, if I'm not mistaken, that 200 people in St. Mark and Square are full. That's right. In Ban Jelačić Square, you need 50,000 people to look as full as St. Mark. But here is the problem with the union's position because at this point they are unquestionably thinking more about themselves than they are about the workers. They, on the other hand, know that they work mainly on public enterprises, but at this point they become dependent on the government. So after this in St. John's Square, There will be no more protests for Mark. So the employers, the unions settled, I agree, no one said that, but I dare say, overnight in St. John's Square. I'd ban it myself, I'd camp out in St. Mark's Square. Mark's banned, sleeping in the chapel in some way I'd limit it. Protests when foreign officials come for security, too, but for me it is not questionable, one who wants to communicate in such a way with the public, the Government, the Parliament, etc., it must be made possible for him at some decent time. What my court should also arrange is St. John's Square. Mark, this disgrace from Mesnica Street when foreigners come up to see what our country is like, Mr. President, it's not your responsibility, it's the municipal thing of the city, this street of Cyril and Method, if I'm not mistaken, that little one under the government, but gentlemen need to take care of it, even if one more rebalancing ensures 5 million kuna that those streets don't look like that to us. What's far away for me may be questionable is what unions agree to. So they made a deal. And that's kind of, I don't know, let down the employment. These unionists who are politicians a couple of excellents, they're all better placed than MPs. They've got cars, phones, salaries like us, all the things that MPs don't have, they're better off being told here, and they're calling us all on the other side. Those unionists who never turned that siren today give up St. Mark's Square. If they're in favour, I don't know I can be in favor, but what's the problem? I won't be in. There comes the right to speak, protest and so on, and that's one of the basic constitutional principles. Elemental human rights and no one can ban it and unionists should not give it up. I agree that several major terrorist attacks have occurred in the last few years. September 11th and then it happened a few days ago 7.7. London. Before that, Madrid, a branch of Al'Quida planted a bomb in Rijeka and so on. And I agree that in St. Mark's Square where the Prime Minister, the President of the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court, the Parliament cannot tolerate anarchy. However, the protest cannot be banned. Not because of now more employers, not because of the government, not because of the union, but because of the constitution itself. And that's the point in our opinion, because it's kind of a questionable principle. But if unions are for what we should be means to. I believe the unions are wrong. This is where they turned out to be conformists. They turned against employment to solve themselves in an unconstitutional way the position of union membership, and I wonder why someone who is not a member of the Union would have to make a team more than we have a decision of the Constitutional Court to pay the union membership fee to that bureaucracy? And I don't think that's right. I also don't think Croatia needs a revolution today. [[Applause.]] I also said in the morning, I don't think we need another election at this hour. The third election in 2005 would be a disaster. We had presidential, locals. If they were parliamentary tomorrow, it would be a disaster because they always thought more about buying social peace and not being able to think about other perhaps more important things. What must it take to agree on how to proceed? Europe is important. It's all important, but economic really is at least that much more incomparably important. In 1997, I was perhaps among the first five or ten to break through that barricade on Jurisic Street when workers headed for Ban Jelačić Square. Today I see the unions retreat. Okay. I respect that, but I don't justify it. Why? Because that's where they are now, because they started trading visas for you and the union membership fees as to how the media carried it. The question arises whether trade unions can be trusted afterwards. Now how come, from this situation, I don't know, get out? In a simple way to ban ourselves from 10 meters on the one hand, on the other hand such protests but still that the middle of Ban Jelačić Square remains in a way how to express itself empty or free. This, this principle of that public standoff on that square, is simply no one's right to step on it. On June 29th 1918, SHS, on May 21st 1945, was declared in the Square by Josip Broz Tito, 4 years before that accident from Pavelic, 30.5. here in front of this building, Tudjman spoke. The protests, among other things, supported and encouraged the HDZ in the past term. Today we see that the situation is different. So safety is yes. No one and nothing should endanger anyone, especially the orderly functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. The minimum distance is certainly required, but the ban at this point is unnecessary. And I'm going to end up like I started not to blame the absolute government for this law, but I blame the Syndicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40901	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40902	Dear Mr Vice-President, Mr. Prime Minister, the Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Gathering and Emergency Procedure in the sense of the procedure as proposed in the Law proposal itself. At the very beginning, I would refer on behalf of the Club to all those remarks referred to in the proposal for a law which was constitutionally legal where constitutional institutes were interpreted in a way that this proposal, in terms of its legal solutions, is not in agreement or is not in agreement with the constitutional provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which regulates this matter. In this regard, of course, Article 42 should also be quoted. The Croatian Constitution which literally regulates or prescribes that everyone is granted the right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest in accordance with the Law. Of course, this constitutional provision should also be linked to Article 16 of our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which prescribes that freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. Perhaps the answer to, under quotes, controversial constitutional and legal issues, questions that are general, let's say the legal nature, which, in that sense, are legal categories which, of course, are regulated by the Constitution of developed rights and freedoms, on this subject perhaps the best and most concrete, and in terms of the specifically proposed law, also speaks the Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Protocol of the Council of Europe. Of course, in our legislation, these regulations entered into or entered into force in 1997 and which, identical to that general part, regulate this matter but as well as this Bill proposal and as these constitutional provisions provide for exceptions to the rules adopted or the Constitution of developed principles. Indeed, the Convention itself does not impose any restrictions on the exercise of the right to freedom of peaceful gathering and freedom of association with others other than those prescribed by the Law and which are necessary in a democratic society for the sake of the interests of national security or public order and peace, in order to prevent riots or crimes, in order to protect health or morals or, in order to protect the rights and freedoms of others, other people. I would especially like to stress the following here. According to a concrete proposal for amendments and additions, therefore, the Law on Public Assembly is aimed only at the most necessary constraints. Therefore, to the most necessary limits necessary for the sake of the interests of national security and to protect the rights and freedoms of others. And why not also mention the dialogue or concrete agreement of the applicant, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the social partners. Well, I guess these protests are also articulated through the work of unions, or union associations that thus regulate all that is regulated through their trade union work in terms of protecting workers' rights or social threats should be articulated at such gatherings, at such protests. I do not see any reason if these very associations agree with this bill, which is why we, for these or those reasons, are mainly about this daily policy or the daily political reasons, then at least such an agreement that was reached in the finale in one serious way and we do not analyse and see no reason for this to be an absolute positive feature of this bill. And why hide or hide from those problems that we look sadly at through television every day, we read in the means of public communication and which really show us that the world, the democratic world exposed to the deaths, will not mention but we all know what it is about, therefore, the last event in England, as perhaps nothing else, gives us in a certain sense and a reminder that we approach this topic in a very serious way, but also the basis of the Regulation on the establishment of anti-intelligence protection and insurance of certain persons and objects and of the space that is in our legal system and which gives us protection and which we can share for the protection of both persons and persons but also objects and in this proposal of law are therefore protected by three objects, this is the object of our Parliament, our Government and the Constitutional Court. Allow me and, of course, the President of the Republic of Croatia who, in the sense of this location, has been isolated from this space that we constantly think of, who we are, has been turned or directed our attention towards St. John's Square. Mark. Let me conclude, therefore, in this brief amendment is actually about amending Article 11 which has so far acted as an exception to the general rule adopted, of course, and the exercise of that right to a public gathering and to a peaceful gathering and to a public protest. It is this exception that we or which we have predicted in the amendments to the law that will absolutely specify the Law of Public Assembly itself in this regard. I think we will avoid a lot of unpleasant situations, unnecessary situations and that we will also have a constitutional institute and law, indeed the right to a peaceful gathering and to a public protest, in fact, even better and more correct, so normatively arranged. From the above, the Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the proposal of this law both in terms of the text of the proposed law and, of course, in terms of the urgency of the procedure applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40903	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40904	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Independent Club, on behalf of the three of us I would like to say briefly and clearly that we are against this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Gathering for simple reasons. I'll only be back on December 10th 1988, International Human Rights Day. On that day, in front of the then Government or Executive Council, what was then called, the Republic of Croatia, the Socialist Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court, the Croatian Parliament, the Socialist Republic of Croatia, a group of 50 people, including myself, including today the current incumbent President of the Parliament, the late Mr. Happy, Gotovina, Marko Veselica, Drazen Budisha and dozens of other then known and unknown, anonymous people, dissidents who did not have a travel document and who protested in front of this Parliament that day, in front of this Government then in that system in front of that Constitutional Court and who were not forbidden to express their disagreement. That was 17 years ago. 17 years ago, we were not forbidden to gather in front of these highest authorities of the Republic of Croatia, then the Socialist Republic of Croatia in one party system, and today the same you or followers of those who went into democratic changes in those 80s and 90s passed a law that did not work in the communist system. That's embarrassing. Shameful height and the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who from this pay phone in that old town hall, shrugged and promised the Croatian people that neither the Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian government would be available to them anymore. That they will be able to gather and express their differences with what is holding them back in a free and democratic Croatia. And what we are doing today and what we are trying to try to do today on a small door to ban a Croatian citizen, a Croatian worker, a Croatian peasant, unemployed from coming before the Croatian Parliament, from the Croatian government and showing his dissatisfaction. And where will he go? In front of the Kerempuh theater, maybe? Well, of course he'll come before state institutions and express his dissatisfaction. And therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, I appeal to you and your government, do not do this. Drag that law, don't bring Croatia back not 17 years ago, if not 17 years ago, Croatia wasn't where it should come today if this law was passed, but in the old Yugoslavia it would be returned. And so I ask you and I appeal to you, followers of that party who has changed the political horizon and the political situation in the then Socialist Republic of Croatia and in the first years of democracy, do not do this, do not vote for it because Croatia is returning. There is no deal with the unions, there is an agreement with several union leaders who are in the government's "cucker pixel" agreeing with the government, nod the government's head and approve of what the government has asked of it. That's not what unions think, that's not what unionists think, that's not what workers think. And it is not true that this is because of the state interest as the board of Mr. Jarnjak said, it seems because of the interest of the ruling elite, and the ruling elites are changing. Today is the one, tomorrow will be the second as yesterday was the third. It is true, and the fact is, during the coalition government after 3 January, that it was burning for choirs to be held, protests right in Mark's square, it was stoically tolerated for you, I give recognition to the representatives of the coalition government in those 3.4 years. It was not pleasant to work when there were 10 thousand people in the square, when there were all kinds of shouting, when they were being insulted, they were being thrown, they were running, they were crossing the lines of protest and dissatisfaction, which was being questioned and domestic education for many, that's true, and that's the fact. Therefore, my dear fellow MPs and former party friends do not support it, do not bring Croatia back if nothing else can be done and let it mature this text, let it be analyzed at another session in the fall and be sure after the nights that you will come to this conclusion and that it will be rare for those who will raise their hands to push Croatia back even further from that communist time and period that we have lived because such things have not happened in times of communism. And I remind you of December 10, 1988, and we often mention this anniversary as an example or beginning of democratic changes in the then Socialist Republic of Croatia, or the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or in a number of eastern countries in Eastern Europe in the communist bloc. So let us not forget that, let us justly value what we have survived but let us remember those promises and those desires and aspirations that led us all to these democratic changes in 1990. All that is happening and the protests that have taken place so far with a different approach with a better organisation can be allowed to continue to be maintained, not to question the freedoms and rights of others, not to be brought into question by the interests of the state, this state has instruments that have the responsibility and obligation to do its job to protect and constitutional order, to protect individuals and the rights and freedoms of others and also state officials who work both in the Government and the Constitutional Court, etc. Therefore, let each one do his job without trying to find a model to push dissatisfyers and protesters a mile or two away or to other locations inappropriate to hold such protests. Therefore, Mr. President, I appeal to you and your government, buy time and allow and suggest that the law go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40905	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40906	The honourable representative said Jarnjakov's Committee, it is incorrect because such a committee in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament does not exist and I have not seen it, but I know what he means, although he meant the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40907	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40908	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I've listened carefully and carefully to everything that's been brought out here so far, I didn't want to react individually on behalf of the promoter, but I'm going to look back on a few subjects now, and put things in the right light in our opinion as it is true. Not getting into the various speculations that were brought here. First of all, I would like to answer to Mr. Honorable Representative Cain, who spoke about the trade unions in one inappropriate way to me, and I say inappropriately because I participated in these talks, not someone else and representatives of the Government who are in the Economic and Social Council. The unions didn't go to any trade, the trade unions weren't any compromisers, the trade unions here weren't me with full responsibility, but at several meetings of the Economic and Social Council we discussed this Law to which the trade unions made some of their remarks that we respected and accepted this proposal, I would say if any adjectives could be applied today in terms of the union, then it would be "responsible". So they showed a high degree of responsibility. I welcome Mrs. Sobol's debate on behalf of the SDP Club, who said this law is trying to connect two principles. One principle of free gathering and protest and another principle of security protection. Both principles were also apostrophe and considered at our sessions, and we decided to accept what is in the Council of Europe Convention on Fundamental Human Freedoms and the right to gather and nothing else, and nothing more and nothing less we proposed this Law that was adopted by the social partners, and only after agreeing with the social partners did we send it to the Croatian Parliament. So if those who protest say we're aware of the responsibility and we accept it then why would we be more papal than the Pope and why would someone here now tell them that they were this or that and that they went to some kind of store that didn't happen. Therefore, those to whom this Law applies are responsible people, represent 6 union centres, that means most, 5 voted in favour, 1 voted against but represent 6 union centres, I did not say that all 6 voted in favour. They represent all 6 union centres, 5 of which voted in favour of the proposal, and one voted against. That employers voted for it is logical, we should not talk about it, but it is also logical if we say that employers voted in favour, let us say then isn't enough reason for us to think and accept this bill as a fact that key people are the ones who organise the protest, those who would rightly have the right to the greatest objections to support this law. Therefore, there is no word here on any prevention of public gathering, it can be anywhere, even more so, and I will say that although given the general debate it has fallen into another plan. We went with a proposal that has been in the Law since now is no longer available, and that is to abolish that provision that says that the public gathering of cultural monuments is forbidden, it has been, in the present Law, now it is no longer there, in other words Jelacič's plac, Trg Ban Josip Jelačić, since there is a monument of culture there from now on can be a place of public gathering. So, according to the new law, according to these changes and additions, it could be the old one it couldn't be. Finally, we accepted the conclusion of the government and the suggestion of the unions that went one step further and said that the issue of traffic regulation, tourist groups, not narrowing down these freedoms but that in agreement with the city and institutions should also be considered when it comes to such manifestations. Therefore, I reject on behalf of the government all qualifications except those which have been given. So it was a very comprehensive debate at several sessions that adopted a proposal for these amendments to the law. I'm asking the Parliament to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40909	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the government! I don't think it's wise for this law to be decided as a final proposal, and it's particularly unwise that it is now at this time of night. The Croatian public should know what is going on, and the government should surely direct this law in two readings, I think that would be good. Namely, I must say that I was one of those who had to go through this square every day and it was not very pleasant to hear the remarks of the fired officers who were all but we suffered, we listened and we still did our job and in particular no one thought to change the existing Law on Public Meeting. And I don't think it's a good thing to do it right now, and now I'm going to say why. Namely, neither is it good that it is done nor is it necessary to do it. That's not a good thing to do. We at the HSS Club believe that everyone, indeed everyone in this country, has the right to come to this square, to be what is said in the centre of attention, that they have the right to come to that market and that their voice should be heard by the Croatian Government and the Croatian public should know the same about that voice. That's why we think it's not good that this law is passed. Secondly, we don't think it's necessary to pass this law. The existing law on public gathering with all its mechanisms that it has can address this issue in a very good way. Namely, the aim of these laws, all these laws which, in a certain sense, allow, of course, the Constitution but very restrictive is, above all, to prohibit a certain public set of acts of violence. First of all, this concerns those acts that threaten the lives or health of people, and others those acts of violence that aim to cause harm. This existing law covers and we think it's one of the reasons why we don't need to change that law. For another reason, it is not necessary to change it for other reasons, and these are the rights of protected persons. No one contests protected persons to have the rights they have but they literally regulate those rights from the Police Act to the Regulation and a series of sublegal acts that are in force. Protected persons have certainly good protection and that is no reason to change this law. The purpose of this law is something else. I do not want to speculate that the Government wants to nor to guess which reasons why this law is submitted to the Croatian Parliament, especially in this final proposal, but I would like to say that the Government will be in a much more comfortable situation. In fact, according to the current law, when you want to organise a certain set, you must report the meeting within the prescribed time limit to the competent police administration, which then assesses whether all the reasons under the law are fulfilled, and then the meeting by the competent police administration either approves or prohibits you. With this law, the government, or the competent ministry, will be in a much more favourable situation. No one will simply be able to apply for meetings because if you see well-prescripted conditions under the law, these public gatherings are no longer possible. That is another reason why the Croatian Peasant Party Club will not support this bill. I repeat, this law is not good, it is not good in the sense that it is good to hear, especially that the Government hears the voice of those who find it difficult, and second that the existing law provides for everything or regulations all adequate mechanisms to protect the good that the law protects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40911	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40912	Mr. President, the Ministers of Honor! This law obviously has some purpose but what concerns me from this law is that I do not read it in the way Prime Minister Sanader interpreted it. Prime Minister Sanader told us a few minutes ago that there would still be protests in Mark's square but that they would have a different form. However, this law quite unequivocally says not that there will be no protest, that there will be no protest, but that what fellow Sobol said will no longer be possible for two people to come before the government or before the Parliament and share various flyers of protests, share their petitions that they have collected, let alone come for example and protest all day or more as it has been possible so far. There's one question for me why we suddenly got scared of the citizens. Because the fact is that there must be some security aspects, but these security aspects certainly didn't come out of the government's workshop on June 10th when it first proposed this law. These security aspects have existed all this time since when and here the government, since when is the Parliament here, since when is the Constitutional Court. What this law says or not clearly says is that protests will not be allowed 100 metres from where the government is or where the government holds meetings. So now the question is whether it really is Mark's square or in one free interpretation it can be said that in the future there will be no protests near all places where the government is, and these are all places where the government's ministries are, and these are all those places where other government institutions are, where the entry doors say the nice Government of the Republic of Croatia, and underneath it writes some of the ministries, institutes or other government institutions. Are we going to make it impossible for the citizens to gather there as well? For example, does this law say that 100 metres from the fence surrounding Pantovčak will not be possible to protest, or is it understood that it is only 100 meters from the building in which the President of the Republic resides. These are some questions that in the future give a huge discretionary right to decide whether or not there will be a protest. I don't know why the government is afraid of not only big protests because it abolishes Article 1 of Article 4 where it is said that public gathering is something that is above 20 people. So why wouldn't it be possible to gather 19 people in Mark’s square and demonstrate some kind of protest, or to show some satisfaction. Why do we always have to talk about citizens coming to Mark’s square to show their dissatisfaction? Citizens can come to show satisfaction with what we do in the Parliament, what the Government does, what the Constitutional Court or someone else does, but here we also prevent that 19-year-old from doing in Mark's square. I don't see why just Mark's square, why exactly the government, why just the Parliament, the Constitutional Court and the President should have such a privilege. Whether this will not be a reason for certain city heads or mayors, for example, to include in city decisions such possibility or inability for citizens to, for example, gather in front of town halls and show their satisfaction or dissatisfaction, or ultimately show their political views or other interests. Because here we always go negatively from citizens only and exclusively coming to the institutions of the state to show their dissatisfaction. For me, this law is totally unacceptable because I do not see any reason that in any place in the Republic of Croatia you cannot show your particular political position, your commitment or advocate for your ideas and your interests. And I especially don't see any reason for that to be 100 meters. Here can be a compromise solution, the Marko square is 80 meters wide, let's say it should be 30 meters, so we leave 10 meters in the middle of Mark's square so that it can show satisfaction with the work of the government or the Parliament. And the other 30 meters, I think it's quite enough for the safety belt to ensure that police and other services don't have any unwanted activity. Unfortunately, in a debate conducted in the Parliament that was fragmented by the media, even at one point, the prime minister spoke of tourists in Mark's square being able to pose a security threat. Fortunately, unlike last year, it seems to me that this year and Mark's square are going through a lot more tourists and tourist groups. Are we really going to come to the thought of saying that in some ways we have to decide when a tourist group is going to cross Mark's square because they represent a certain form of security danger? I don't think there's any reason to be afraid of citizens. I don't think there's any reason to be afraid of citizens who are willing to report a meeting. Who are willing to determine who their organizers will be, who are willing to tell them who will be their directors and come here to show their will or will or trouble they have. We must fear those who, in spite of this Law, may intend to come to Mark’s square, do something to an institution or a protected person, but for such persons it doesn’t matter whether it’s a limit of 100 meters, 30 meters, or the way we have it today. Let us therefore remain open, clear, public and transparent to citizens such as this public place called St. In the future, let us not be afraid of the well-intentioned citizens of Croatia, who may have problems and may think that these problems can be solved here in Mark’s square. A much greater contribution will be to tell these citizens where to solve their problems is. But so long as they are convinced that their problem will be easily solved or only possible by protesting in Mark's square, there will be a need for this Square to be open to those citizens. When we convince them where they can solve their problems, or when they will be in a position to solve their problem, so when they will know where they can solve it, where, when we won't even have to convince them, then there will be no need for such a law again. Therefore, this Law has no purpose for me and this Square must remain open to all citizens of Croatia under equal rules, regardless of whether in a group of two, 19 or 21, and in particular must be open to those tourists and citizens who are ready and interested to come to see all the beauty of Mark’s square. And finally I ask the question why again we single out only one place in Croatia compared to all other places in Croatia. This Law is exclusively intended for Zagreb, no other city in Croatia. Therefore, if we are willing to define something in general, then we should do so or we should write it down that it is really just for a gathering on, in Zagreb. I don't think there's any need to vote on this at all, but we leave it the way it's been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40913	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Otherwise, it's time for an individual debate on this point, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40914	Thank you, Mr. President, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly or how the HDZ intended to prohibit protests in St. Mark, who had been so generous and so tenderly helpful not two years ago. They cried here and cried for some MPs, not nearly a single topic began that we hadn't mentioned the poor campers, fired from court decisions, therefore, confirmed court decisions by the Administrative Court. They cried here, they shed tears, they complained of fate, of this disgusting, horrible government, which is so by law, by the letter of the law, fired. And now they're camped here. So here's the irony. Now they shut you up even though they're here. And this law we, beware, the law that in its name has the term public gathering, we discuss here... secret, away from the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Law is not an expression of a rational policy, it is an expression of a frightened order that was afraid for its power, for the position of power. He is an expression of the sterility, not of the inventivity, of the ruling, of the fear of the ruling for his own position. In fact, we even see these opposition benches and rows, not even some great justification, because this people are kind and willing to forgive them, give them a chance, so now the government has shown how little trust in their own strength. And how much it's all an act and a farce about drilling into decisive moves. What are these, what are the decisive moves, here's what we've had a chance to see today at the budget rebalance. No one stands for camping here, for camping, as the HDZ advocated earlier while the coalition was in power, but it certainly is embarrassing to ban on this market the expression of protest. In the square where new, new orders were born and the old regimes fell, but it is in the style of the original HDZ authorities who, in their first period of 1990 to 2000, defended Mark Square's approach to police barricades and cordons, in the same Square where Stjepan Radić was long ago advocating for freedom of choir, speech and agreement and as he reminded us of all the expensive colleagues Glavas, already not so long ago, but it was many years ago in 1988 when this protest was quite peaceful and common. There was always freedom no matter what he thought or how he evaluated such passages. When the Spartan legislation of Likurga advised to lift the wall around Sparta, he refused with indignity and said that the heroic hearts and the heroic breasts were the best wall and defense. Of course, when there's something to defend. Archaeological excavations are not the original solution to get rid of campers here. It's basically a bad copy of a good original that comes from where rather than from Zadar? From...... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The darkening HDZ power and the great trouble of taking down Gotovina's picture now that other times have come, is it and when it is no longer fashionable this picture, when she played her part because once wearing and hanging that painting was the expression of the greatest, greatest patriotism, and today, of those same people who once said it were suspects who didn't think well either of the Government or of Croatia, and then the dark government intended to reconstruct the small council and that reconstruction took months to finally be realized but, behold, in order to not ask the new mayor would hang the picture? He can't hang it because it's now a mirror hall and there are mirrors everywhere and it's clear that the picture can't be hung on the mirror. And now the question is, my colleague, I'm going to answer you for the elevator right now. Yeah, that's when the elevator was opening, that's when a lot was opening up, and now it's all closing down. ... She doesn't need an elevator, but she needs an elevator by building, say, 10 floors. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. And now the government is trying
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40915	Let go of the elevator.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40916	Government, I don't want to be in any debt to anyone. Not even this fellow here. [[- Oh, yeah.]] And now the government wants to camouflage this proposal and plant it in the light of unprecedented events and fear of terror and of terrorists. And who are the potential terrorists? ... In any case, they're not weddings that drink often, they're not processions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not just any passenger intended to pass here, bring anything and go, but it's desperate people who are looking for something specific from the government. They're dangerous. They're potential terrorists. They're potential attackers. And what is this, and now that power, power needs to be protected from these people. Of those people who were promised a lot. And in return they received such a message through this Law: Go as far away as our eyes can see or hear you. Just get together when the election is because we're the best. And what is the safety of a Croatian citizen, what is the safety of Croatian workers, this is not the current topic. That's not the subject of this government. And because, as this government has been invited by many MPs, it would be wise for this law to withdraw or in the trouble in which the government has fallen, and then it is forced that such an important law should be spoken of publicly and, as the law says, does not discuss it secretly, does not discuss the night. I wish I could accept the amendments sent by the SDP Club. The government's here looking somewhere together, so now the government's really working. Here we can see in front of the parliamentarians themselves how they will discuss these amendments, because it was quite unclear until they arrived very hot and from these machines they came to us warmly, and the government had already rejected them. She knew it had to be rejected. Quick government, quick government. And so I say it would be good for the government to accept amendments that will introduce order. Which he won't camp here with. But where a normal worker, a Protestant, any citizen will be able to come here freely. That's what the government should be proud of. You don't have to be afraid of that. And maybe the government is afraid with the right that we still don't know what they're afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40917	Otherwise, on December 10, 1988, as president of the Helsinki Committee and international commissioner Amnesty International, I called in the largest conspiracy of 40 people who were denied passports for political reasons not to protest but only gathered here under the watchful police pass, and we only managed to reach a port of the Parliament to hand over that document neatly recorded by the police. You're being watched neatly. And the President of the Parliament watched it behind the curtains, so when the power was handed over and I told the one on the port, one in the civilian: "Tell the President of the Parliament that next time we will come in a far larger number." Because when the handover of the authorities was then I said to him, "We have now come in a far larger number." And the gentleman who mentions himself that he was not there, he was nowhere near. Nowhere near. It's so one explanation about this Law and some of the prodigies out of freedom, and it's all written and written, but it's also recorded. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40918	A colleague of Anticevic said: "A public gathering and a secret debate." The public gathering is yes, but also a public debate because the public is present. Second, I'm very offended because she didn't mention my Mattie Loser. He was out here, too. And he should be mentioned. And a third. I must remind you, however, of the workers of the Ironworks on the bridge in Sisak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40919	Dear Representative, I almost told Matija Gubec, the correction of the incorrect quote Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40920	Mr. President, I will correct the incorrect allegation of the distinguished colleague Antičević, where she stated that HDZ worked hard and helped and organized protests in Mark's square while he was in opposition, and now defends them. That's absolutely incorrect. You have all worked hard and heartily to help your insults, callings, cancellations, and all the other moods of the so-called. from Croatian police officers to Croatian defenders to the creator of Croatian homeland. You helped them get together here. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40921	And respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40922	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Anticevic. We have not advocated camping in Mark's square nor yesterday nor today, but we have compassion for people with those whom you have violated human rights, dignity and unlawfully resigned. It has been repeated in the Croatian Parliament several times, and therefore, that would be the first. As for putting a picture of General Gotovina in the Zadar Council, you said the mirrors in the Zadar Council and I suggest we put your picture on the ceiling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40923	The mirror room should. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40924	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have to admit that the other day, looking around the Internet, I found a web site on which this law was presented with a single title that I think doesn't give up much of what's the point of this law, and it was about to read "beyond me a force of impurity". And it seems to me that really this law is somewhere along the system, so get everybody out of Mark's square, get as far away from us as possible, and the fact is that by now I just don't know 15 or 20 days ago no one here in Mark's square would be at risk, neither the people in the government nor us here in Parliament. No one's safety was compromised. She hasn't been compromised in the past three and a half years when there's been a lot more people coming in here than the police's security estimates could have gotten into Mark's square. When spears were thrown into the windows of the Croatian Parliament, when some other ways were tried, no one felt threatened at the time, are now threatened. What changed in such a short period of time I don't know, except that people and parties in power have changed. By 2000, the square could not have come to Mark's when you went to protests, on all the access roads stood the ramps, the gelenders, I don't know what it would have been called, stood the special police units and even the workers who worked in the Assembly had to legitize each morning with the card to work in the Croatian Parliament so that they could get to their jobs at all because they were very careful that none of the access routes on Mark's square could be picked up by protesters, our fellow citizens who wanted to protest here for the position they were in and for the violation of some of their rights. In 2000, Mark's square opened and so we had fewer protests and bigger protests, we also had people from the government who could stand in front of very angry and insolent workers and we were not afraid and we did not feel that our safety was compromised. We thought it was our fellow citizens who could be more or less angry, more or less bitter. Some even threatened, shouted something that was neither polite nor pleasant to hear, but we also thought it was their right to say what they were unhappy with, and it was never on our mind to ban it, and I think today we are fighting for the right to have everyone here on Mark's square to say what they think people in the government and people in Parliament need to hear. As far as the union is concerned, I might just as well say that it is quite logical that, right here on Mark's square, it is protested that both the government and the Parliament are the two institutions in which decisions are being made, in which some problems are being decided. So it's perfectly logical that people are coming here to claim their rights. As for the unions here, some have already spoken, so it may not be a problem in the government, the government has some policy, we have seen through the budget today. Here is today the same through this Law banning public protests on Mark's square, but it's really strange that unions that should fight for the rights of primarily workers, that this time they gave up their rights, hence fundamental civil rights, which is that they can be protested in such a square as Mark's square. We've also heard that the unions are now responsible for agreeing to such a law and a ban like this. It's my question whether in the past few years when the unions brought workers here, they were irresponsible. Suddenly they became responsible only for giving up the right of workers to come to Mark’s square and here in front of people who may be most responsible for their destiny, to say what they think about it. I am also asked the question where the great empathy of individuals who have supported all these years of protesting in Mark's square supported their right to say what they disagree with, where this great compassion of the same people sitting today and in the Government and here in the Croatian Parliament is now missing, that they can propose such a law and most likely still tonight and raise their hand to such a law. Who's afraid of workers in this country? Who's afraid of people who work for demining, who don't have any rights? So who's afraid of our fellow citizens coming here to protest because some of their human, working, fundamental civil rights are threatened more or less? It should also be said that, with all due respect to the fact that Mark's square is a very small square, that not many protesters can stand on it, that it is very questionable from a security point of view to the gathering of more people in Mark's square, I personally cannot agree to raise my hand for such a law that will prohibit any kind of gathering of our citizens, our fellow citizens here on Mark's square, and that will prohibit them from telling us here all the problems that plague them and that is why I will not raise my hand for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40925	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40926	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's only one quote I have to correct which colleague probably said because the media didn't follow the subject consistently. First, it's not true that the unions agreed to this bill. The agreement on the Economic and Social Council gave five union leaders and the only one, and none of these unions had it at their body sessions, and the only one against it was Mr. Kresimir Sever, president of the Independent Croatian Unions. For the truth and the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40927	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40928	Thank you very much. I have to admit I don't understand you. You're proposing a law that will keep people from acting the way you did. Imagine you now that we have passed this law, so how will you be bound by chains before the Parliament? How? So you imagine that such a good law as you suggest it was worth in 88 years? So how would Shakespeare be celebrated in the heroic act of teaching petitions to Angelka Runjic? How? He'd be banned. An unfortunate fate has this law. First he was sent to the emergency procedure, then the emergency procedure was removed, then he was withdrawn, then he was a little fixed, then he was sent back to the emergency procedure. What's with the tampering? What's with the tampering? I guess it's because they're dishonest motives. The promoter claims that the law proposes for security reasons, but actually suggests it because it makes him uncomfortable to demonstrate himself in front of him, to protest here in front of the government. Because you're careful of the security reasons. The government let this one sit in other cities, not only in Zagreb, but it will not be banned, there is no danger of terrorism, and the same government, the same prime minister. No, terrorists can't come to Rijeka or I don't know where. The threat of terrorism has been exclusively in Mark's square, there's been terrorism in action for years. It's known areas where terrorist acts, stupidity one, stupidity. You don't want to protect a protected person, you want to get rid of an embarrassment that the protesters tell you you don't know how to run a government, and when they tell you that it's not convenient for you to hear it, and now you're going to ban it by law. The protest, you know, was a different relationship between the government and the protests in Croatia, here's what Glavas said about the 88th year, I remember that protest for 101. It was announced that 101 started calling people, until evening the needle did not fit in the square. Everyone was thrilled that 101 would remain a concession because the protest was successful, all but the well-known Democrats of President Tudjman, who for this reason replaced the Jarnjak because he did not stop him from protesting. Already the next protest, the attempt to protest that union was brutally prevented, the cordon of SWAT prevented it, the square remained protected, it was defended. In 2000, when the third government of January came to the Bane Courts then they passed these iron fences by the barricades, and the end of each barricade were also special forces, it was Racan's government moved away and I will never forget Vice President Linic in Dnevnik showed up once and said let this guard move away, let them beat us, they chose us, so if they think we're not good enough to beat us. They didn't beat them, but they protested. Once spontaneously, sometimes a little less spontaneously, sometimes organized like when the cops were protesting. Some also threw pâtés at the prime minister at the time, and the then representative Sanader did not worry about the prime minister's safety. He didn't wonder what the hell was a bomb instead of a pâté, and it could have been, because the one who threw the pâtés at him found the whole arsenal in a double wall in the pantry, plannedly hidden, didn't have it left behind from the war, somewhere in the attic, but hid the whole arsenal of weapons, and he was in the square, throwing it at the prime minister of the pâtéte, and you didn't wonder then whether it could be dangerous. No, you stepped in to protect that patetar with the arsenal, you said that's how they should be supported, them. Let us not fool ourselves, but tomorrow, when HDZ is not in power, it will organise HDZ protests again, and they will not be concerned with the safety of any future prime minister and any future government, let us not fool ourselves about it. They are simply such people, organizing a huge gathering on the Split Riviera to protect the generals from The Hague and not release the Co-operation Act with the Hague Court, but when they come to power, they immediately deliver those same generals. When they fit, they say the budget rebalance is passed under the budget law, and five minutes later it is not passed, five minutes later, because that's how it fits them. That's the way you people are. This government is therefore not to be trusted, and even when it says that this law proposes for security reasons, that is not the reason. You're proposing this law to protect yourself from the protesters. And you know what, Vresk has a right, we have a law on public gatherings that when someone wants to protest, he has to announce the rally, he has to tell the police how much he expects the protesters, he has to specify the time of the meeting, and when the meeting will end. And the police can grant it or do not approve it if they estimate that the security risk can not grant him a set and give him a security risk, so that you do not act under that law, you will not assume responsibility as Government, of course because the public would tell you that you are afraid of protesters, but you are sending us to the House to cover for you, that we protect you by law. That's not what I want to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40929	Thank you very much. Otherwise, my colleague Stazic did not particularly celebrate myself with this because I had been denied a plea for pardon to lift the legal consequences of a ban on dealing with a law firm that had been imposed on me for 10 years because it could no longer have been, and that was to explain that it was an enemy counter-state activity that I only tried to come to this square with a group of those who were also taken away from me, to hand only a protest petition to the President of the Parliament, so I was rewarded in this way, the truth of some people like Drazen Budisa and others got passports afterwards. It happened later. And by the way, my colleague Stazic has honored HDZ's men and I, as special people, are proud to be the people of a special kind. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40930	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mr. President to blame Mr. Stazic for speaking ironically to President Tudjman's famous Democrats, which means President Tudjman is not a Democrats. That's incorrect, Mr. Trainer, because President Tudjman has brought down your one-mindedness and introduced democracy, and I understand that you will never forgive him.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40931	And the second correction of Honored Representative Anna Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40932	Mr. President, Mr. STazić incorrectly stated that this proposal protects Mark's square in Zagreb only as some cultural protest post that this government is particularly afraid of in the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the Law is to add a substitute 6 and says at least 100 meters from the facilities in which the Croatian Parliament is located, the President of the Republic, the Government of Croatia, etc., which means that there will be protection and facilities wherever the Government is sitting, in whatever part of the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40933	Dear Representative Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40934	Your Honor, Mr. President, I usually don't talk a lot about the draft regulations either of those laws or others, both here and on committees, if I agree with those laws. I, of course, feel obliged to say something under the proposal of this Law because, indeed, with a previous proposal that has been withdrawn, I have stepped up quite sharply and I am glad that I can talk today about a bill on the same subject that I truly support from the heart on the one hand. And on the other hand, some of my colleagues called this law and lex wrinkles, so that's why I feel like I need to say a few words. Why do I support this law? Of course, in a conflict of two principles, two guaranteed constitutional freedoms, two natural freedoms, that is freedom to public gathering and speech on the one hand and the right to security on the other. I think this time the government has found an ideal reconciliation solution so neither of these principles will be compromised. Freedom of public speaking is not limited to anything. On the contrary, with this bill of law, places where public gatherings can be held and protested whether it is citizens' protests, so if you want strikes, it also extends to sites where protected monuments of culture are located. The only place to restrict such protests is 100 meters from the government, 100 meters from the Parliament, 100 meters from the Constitutional Court and 100 meters from the Office of the President of the Republic. I think it's for security reasons even an insufficient belt but given the fact that the city's state of affairs, I think 100 meters will be quite satisfactory and will guarantee the safety not only of the government but of our representatives, etc. I'm not going to tell you why I think this is a necessary measure. The latest events actually show that we are not spared from any of these worst threats. But as this is, some colleagues say lex wrinkles, somehow I was moved by the concern of freedom from some colleagues and colleagues who simply don't care about such things for well-known reasons in the near past. I mean, the period before the '90s where the declared rights were huge and real nothing. Not only was protest and public gathering not allowed, neither public speech was allowed, nor any other word written if it criticised the existing social order, political forces in power, etc. But I won't talk about that period. I'm going to say about those self-residents of freedom who today are so warmly defending themselves for absolute freedoms that in themselves are impossible by objecting to this government and to us, that we're being too restrictively, too limited by rights, limiting the possibility of protesting 100 meters from these objects, and not so long ago, I'm not going to mention Matija Gupco and more. I'll mention an event from the recent past during the coalition government when police protesters were driven from Mark's square even though the law existed that could gather on it. So the public protest was disabled. They fled to the chapel of the Church of St. Mark. And that wasn't enough either, they were attacked by police officers in a chapel in a holy place to arrest them. And since they didn't make it, they stood up, locked themselves in a chapel. Then the spokeswoman Zrinka Badric said against all of them we will file criminal charges because they have imprisoned the police, please. So, the Protestants who were in the sacristy of the chapel of the Church of St. Mark was imprisoned by police officers in that same sacristy and should therefore be prosecuted. It's freedom, it's the right thing to do. For this reason, then, you could cite a number of other examples. I witnessed a series of debates in this committee assembly, on the parliamentary committees where I began to try to push through a syntagma that spoke about legally elected authority and street. So, constantly stressing that to God some legal authority on the one hand and on the other hand some street crowd is actually with one dangerous tendency to restrict the right to public gathering and protest. Therefore, if anyone is immeasurable and there is one sensitivity to the right to public protest and gathering, then it is my colleagues on this side of the phone and I personally because we know very well what ban and names and speeches mean, etc. and I have stepped out especially sensually under that first bill of law when I sincerely opposed such a proposal because it was much more restrictive and I am glad that the government came out with this proposal and I think Mr. Prime Minister that this good proposal, but I would certainly add, I am glad that the representatives of the union also saw that this is a necessary law on the one hand. And on the other hand, Mr. President, I think that, as the trade unions have said, you should consider the security reasons that threaten one fairly uncontrolled traffic in the Upper City. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40935	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40936	Mr. President, this law has a strangely powerful effect. It hasn't even been delivered yet. It's already working. And how does that work? Look out, he not only prevents public protests by more than one person in front of the Parliament, he prevents one person from protesting in the Assembly. It is so powerful to remember Mr. Boras, how he strongly protested against this law that he became almost likable to me and now so strongly advocates this law that my sympathies for him have returned to natural proportions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40937	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40938	Mr. President, it is hypocritical to speak of freedoms by those people whose freedom is not innate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40939	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40940	Well, here's exactly what I'm going to connect to. So, not only is freedom inborn to all of us, but we have sworn to fight for the freedom and rights of citizens, and so is the right of citizens to meet publicly and especially to gather in a place where we represent them and represent them because I do not see any direct communication if we are to communicate with citizens within 100 meters. This law really enables citizens and freedom of speech but only enough loud enough citizens we can hear at a distance of 100 meters. And secondly, maybe you didn't read this law to the end. So, the law that was so undemocratic that you're talking about allowed our Prime Minister, Seks, to come here in 88 and announce that he would be Parliament's president. As of tomorrow, some new young Shacks won't get that chance. So, the young Shex new one won't be able to make it to Parliament and I'll be here in two years with a large group of people and president of the Parliament. One citizen can no longer protest, not 21 as it has been. And finally about unions. You know, they didn't protest or protest at Mark's square just the workers, they didn't protest just union-organised workers, they protested and fired cops, they protested other citizens, but not all those who were at Mark's square and protested. For example, some of them advocated the protection of the Drava River, which was neither in union nor anywhere else but was an ecological association. Therefore, the fact that some union leaders have given some kind of consent does not mean that citizens support such a non-democracy law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40941	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40942	Dear fellow Mršić, I will not remind you again of the period before the 90th. I'll repeat, the government of Ivica Racan and the party you belong to recently arrested by people who were in the sacristy of the Church of St. Mark accusing and asking them not to protest in St. Mark. Thus, regardless of what was actually allowed, it was really forbidden, not only in the Square but even in the sacristy of the Church. And I didn't hear you as a young party rebel against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40943	I no longer intend to appear in protests because I have no reason to do so anymore. And then I didn't show up, I didn't announce a protest. And it also resembles the same as the Zagreb police, the police have banned the establishment of the Croatian Democratic Community Assembly with a reason that the programme will upset the participants of the founding assembly. That it would upset us ourselves with that draft program, and then we kept it in a public place. Dear Representative Joseph Leko, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40944	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So given the way this proposal is discussed, the final proposal for a law on public gathering could first say that evolution is a process that, over a long period of time, quantity turns to quality. If I quote it correctly, Mr. Vujic, it would be something like that. That evolution is slightly faster when it comes to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40945	Second law of dialectics, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40946	When it comes to HDZ, so indeed the quantity has grown to the quality of the protests and the protest organisations are now banned from protests. And with some colleagues, this evolution lasts even a little bit shorter, so the law that came into the procedure is called the Law on the slave system and is now being praised. And the tolerance between us is like this. Some have the right to evolution, and others have no right to evolution. And that's, that's the story of us. Now something about the law. There is no competition here in the law of two principles, security and right to protest. If you have really read the applicable law carefully, the emphasis is on calmness, and it is only about peaceful protests. No, there's no talking here about any protests that might put someone at risk. The law only speaks of peaceful protests. Everything else is a matter of practice. The Croatian State and the Croatian Government have the deposits of the authority to organise and provide security and the law is only a legal basis and this Law solves nothing but prohibiting citizens from protesting just before those to whom the protest was sent. So they're not going to protest the Dinamo football club here, they're going to go to Dinam Stadium. And neither will the government protest before... Even under this law, there is no protest in front of the guesthouse here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under this law it is forbidden to protest against the government at... No protests in Katarina's square, no protests, no protests, no protests in the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I can protest against the government in front of Dinam's stadium, but I can't protest against the government. If that is the case even when the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is carefully read, let me read the Constitution to you. The Constitution says that every restriction of freedom and rights must be, listen to your colleague, listen to the relative nature of the need for a restriction, and in each case, not in general how the Government provides itself. This is a general ban on protesting against the government. And individually, the government could always ban it. And that's what the Constitution says. If we look at what he says, what the Convention says. And the Convention only says by law in cases of the interest of national security. Is the interest of state security injured if it comes to the government to hand over the protest. A petition. If 20 people come to the Church of St. Mark from the church comes out, says let's go and hand it over to the government. Forbidden to both the Parliament and the Baby, and it is forbidden to hand over more than 15 people. That's right, that's right. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40947	Okay, the government can turn itself over to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40948	But the government isn't for itself, it's for the citizens' sake. It's for the citizens' sake. Therefore, if we are to respect, if we are to respect our own Constitution in Article 16(2), it is only in a particular case of endangerment and not in general. The government of Croatia is not generally at risk. If you claim to be a general, then it's really a bigger problem. The constitution says only in a single case. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues of this bill are not allowed to dress in anything but in the Law on the Protection of Peace of the Croatian Government while at the meeting No, no, this law came from the Croatian government. [[Intruder: I Parliament.]] Let's be honest here, I stress that this is a law that regulates peaceful gatherings and peaceful protests without the possibility of jeopardizing the government because the levers of the government, the levers of security are with the government. So it's a practical question, it's a practical question, not a legal framework. No, no, no, no. If you ask me and the citizens will surely tell you that this really is a restriction on the freedom of citizens to direct their government to protest, even if there were 21 and not 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40949	Thank you. There is one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40950	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Leko has incorrectly stated that this law regulates a peaceful protest. No, this Law regulates a public gathering and Article 11 provides for exceptions, therefore, for a peaceful gathering and public protest. And they are precisely taxed and, in the context of the proposal, even in this proposal, it was stated that, according to current law, there was a ban, a public gathering, a peaceful protest near cultural monuments, a zero category if it led to the death of protected values. So, it's being abolished now. I just wanted to say that Article 11 in this regard lists the exceptions to one general principle and in this sense... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40951	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40952	Mr. President, here you can see how corrupt this democracy is. Today we are discussing whether anyone will protest or not. Today we are discussing whether anyone will protest, whether or not, let us remember, for example, at a time when there was a working class in power, and in her name she ruled her avant-garde. Then we had these democracies so abundant that we could protest wherever we wanted. And you see at that time when the working class was in power as we had democracy. Turk Ivan, named Johan, born on May 25th 1871, was named August 31st 1946 in the Kotar court of Pakrac, and I quote "an ideal Ustasha, a war criminal and a national enemy". A copy of the death certificate says Ivan Turk died on October 4, 1938. Fuy democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40953	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40954	So I can only say that I listened and watched some shows of colleagues, colleagues of Loncar in that time with Croatian TV, and I, I couldn't even get a scholarship in that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40955	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Loncar... It's not working because he responded to a replica, and in response to the replica, a representative can. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you can't. [[Intruder: But he also told the lie]] No incorrect quote corrected No, there isn't. [[Intruder: I came on TV 1992.]] But there's no, there's no replica, there's no if the representative said something... No, there's no... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let it go, let's leave it all to the Ministry for the Organization of Spontaneous Demonstrations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40956	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, there are a lot of serious arguments that lead me to the conclusion and I won't repeat these arguments that the security win will be small, but unfortunately that one democratic standard that we're used to is going to be violated. I will not repeat these arguments, but I will look only at my contribution to this debate on a situation comparatively-legal in democratically developed countries because it was here, the promoter said it was a common norm that is common in the democratic world. In Austria, there is no spatial restriction on public gathering. Here's the law, I have a quote. There is a gathering in Belgium and it is limited to a narrow center of Brussels, so something similar to ours, our cultural monuments, let's say, the Royal Palace and Parliament. It's true. In Cyprus, there is no spatial arrangement in Cyprus. There is also no spatial arrangement for a public gathering in the Czech Republic. In Denmark, the gathering is limited in buildings and their immediate vicinity. It's true. There's no space limit in Finland. In France, the spatial limit has been limited to public road gatherings and meetings against foreign heads of state visiting France. Access to the presidential palace, courts and parliament may be limited. So this is in the area of, say, such an assessment of whether a concrete event threatens security or not? The code, too, has no obligator ban in Greece, but it is about possible restrictions if it threatens the safety of social and economic life. In Hungary, it is also optional to say such a restriction if the gathering would endanger the functioning of Parliament, courts or threaten traffic. So there's no absolute ban but if there's a concrete event at stake. There is also a possibility of restrictions in Ireland, and this is interestingly not allowed on private property without the consent of the owner and if it is Parliament and public buildings if it is sought by the Security Service for certain concrete reasons. There are no spatial restrictions in Italy. In Slovenia, the restriction is only possible in the case of objects protected by special regulations but, if it is ensured, endangers the safety of these institutions. So not obligatory again. In Slovakia, which is very close to us, there are no spatial constraints. There are no spatial restrictions in Spain. There are no spatial restrictions in Portugal. There are no spatial restrictions in Luxembourg and there are no restrictions in the Netherlands either. In Sweden, there are no spatial restrictions at abstract level, but only there are spatial restrictions related to a particular threat. It's the same in Poland. In the United Kingdom, which we see as very endangered and probably has the most fear for such restrictions, there are also no aprior restrictions but are related to concrete security threats, and there are some European Court of Human Rights rulings relating precisely to certain specific restrictions that are mentioned. In one word, there are no aprior restrictions in the vast majority of democratic countries, but of course they are aware that there is a potential threat, the restrictions attached to the assessment of those whose job it is. What's going on? I personally don't believe that at least in this situation like we have today's amendments to the law will lead to great practical consequences. Why don't I believe that? Because if you were to literally read the possibilities and restrictions that arise from the text, literally reading the text of the new proposed standards would make the restrictions really scary. To the fact that really a group of people can't walk around Mark's square. I'm sure no one will use it like that. I am also convinced that if there were more serious protests than before in democratic Croatia, the Croatian government did not limit the force of protests in Mark's square so that no democratic government would do so, and of course this government is, so I almost see these changes of law as an unnecessary stain to the democratic face of today's Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40957	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40958	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues at 23 hours and 27 minutes, I will be an expedition. We at the Democratic Centre have an understanding of these government motives to increase the level of security of protected persons and objects particularly in the context of global security problems today in the world. We also have an understanding of government intentions to increase the level of security of foreign statesmen and delegations when they are staying in St. Mark's Square. We particularly stress this because, in the context of terrorist attacks in London and media information, in Italy today fear similar terrorist attacks, in Denmark and in other European countries. The less these are countries of the anti-terrorism coalition, and Croatia is one of those countries of the anti-terrorism coalition. Furthermore, we are convinced that, by banning these public gatherings and peaceful protests, these prohibitions will not significantly increase the security and protected persons, objects, foreign statesmen and delegations themselves. It should be added to this by quality work of intelligence and counterintelligence services. By combining these two protections we will then have quality protection if we just rely on this physical security I don't think that's enough reason. The truth is that this ban on public gathering will not significantly limit constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms to public gathering and peaceful protest because we have such restrictions in developed countries of democracy as much as you want. Therefore, we can interpret each other more or less in our own way, but these standards exist in the world and therefore Croatia is not special, some special exception. And the end itself. We are all aware that St. Mark's Square is a cult place, that this square as such is a special destination suitable for daily political use and abuse. Thank you very much. And we will normally support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40959	Thank you. And the last speaker, Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40960	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since time has really moved on, I'm going to take my exposure down for two minutes. Two questions, two answers and two conclusions. First of all, I am glad that there are so many of us left, because I feel that this is a very important moment for the further development of civil society in Croatia. I will not repeat what Mr. Leko said, Mr. Josipovic, I am on the verge of their thinking on this. But we have not heard anything about the Croatian specificity, referring to the Council of Europe, these examples of European democratic countries, the rule of law. I don't think that's good. My first question is: How many colleagues and colleagues today are having an affair, corruption, malfeasance, illicit actions of all kinds associated with Croatian politicians and Croatian politics. The answer to that question is: Still very much, far, far away, too. Second question: What if we didn't have this extra pressure on civil society today? The answer is: Certainly not better, it would probably be significantly worse. That's why this law or something like that in this law, I might support five, six, ten years. At this point definitely not. Croatia is not a legal state, citizens have no one to turn to. Will the judiciary protect the citizens? How long will it take a citizen to prove his right? So this is the only weapon in the hands of civil society to put extra pressure on us, to seek fairer, more efficient, more correct work. That's why not right now. What particularly bothers me in tonight's debate is the mention of the word "terrorism" and the connection of those words in any way to those who are unemployed, disproved, humiliated. Such people in a peaceful protest have been changing very often in the square in front of this building for the last year. That's why I don't think I can support a law like this right now. That I consider citizens allies in our business to make Croatia a better, more democratic and legal state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40961	Thank you very much. The final review of State Secretary at the interior ministry, Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40962	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen, I will only repeat once more what I said in the introduction to explain the need to pass this law. Namely, there have been attempts to dispute that similar solutions to restrictions on public gathering on public areas have other countries. When we passed this law, we consulted a solution from other countries. Austria has similar solutions, Germany has similar solutions. Mr. Josipovic, you have listed several other countries that have and know similar solutions. It is also quite clear that such restrictions are recognised by the Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Protocol of the Council of Europe. These proposed amendments are therefore in line with this Council of Europe Convention. The adoption of the draft law also consulted the social partners gathered in the GSV and the social partners also agreed that such a change to the Law on Public Assembly was adopted and it is also clear that what is stated in the explanation of the material was also stated that constitutional principles on the protection and respect of human rights and freedoms were also respected. And in the end, I would just say what the MUP is proposing, that the MUP has a really great responsibility to ensure the necessary level of security of all state institutions with such a law will be far easier and what is very important to say, it will avoid arbitration as it could have been applied so far because it is clear where public gatherings are banned and in what situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40963	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40964	Here's a very short one. With regard to the Austrian solution and some other solutions, similarity is such that it cannot be the same reason. It is true that the Austrian law of 53, watch out from 53, defends the holding of meetings when the National Council is sitting, etc. 300 meters, but only when he's in session. So there's no aprior ban and maximum coverage of certain territories by banning gatherings. It's similar in other countries that I don't bother you with it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40965	Thank you very much. We're going to the vote. I ask the Secretary of State to be first on two amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives. First, on Amendment 1, to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40966	Amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40967	A little explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40968	Because this law is prescribed exactly where a gathering is prohibited without the possibility of approval as proposed by the amendment. It is subject to a general ban in that area prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40969	Thank you. Who's going on behalf of the proposer? Honorable representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40970	Mr. President, the SDP Club is ready to support this law provided that our amendments are adopted, and we have tried to make sure that when it comes to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, we did not go to other institutions like the President of the Republic, to ensure that principles can still be applied in co-existence. One is the principle of security, of course, and the other is the right to demonstrate the country's citizens' protests before the highest democratic institutions of their government. That is why we have proposed, in this first amendment, that, under strict conditions, protests be made in a limited number and limited time. That's what we wanted to break the practice that you HDZ gentlemen stimulated while we were in power, an anarchic situation that was really possible in Mark's square of things, and anarchy, and tents and so forth. We think order should be introduced but help to achieve the democratic principle of citizens here, that they can hand over petitions, flyers, representatives of the Croatian Parliament or may be members of the government. That's why we've proposed these amendments. We think they help the proposing's intentions. And that's a condition for us to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40971	We have to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40972	Only if I may say so, intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40973	We must vote Mr. Secretary of State. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40974	Article 2 is also not accepted in the second amendment and otherwise I would like to say that it will not be limited and impossible to share leaflets individually either before the Parliament or before the Government. Sharing flyers is not a public gathering or protesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40975	Dear Representative Ivica Racan on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40976	Well, we can't use your oral statement like this, you're proposing these amendments and supplementing the laws to make it impossible because you're erasing the possibility that you're gathering over here, you're erasing the possibility of 20 people here to, for example, handing out petitions or handing out flyers on sight, that but you're erasing an article that's talking about a number of over 20 that defines what a gathering is, so all you're erasing it is just a statement of the lips that we've heard and the law says otherwise that you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40977	I don't think anyone who wants to come will turn something over, there are other norms of the law and the application of the law. So we can ban someone from coming to the President of the Croatian Parliament or to hand over a petition, protest or something. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We're going to vote on the law. Here you go, Mr. Baby. Please. I'm voting on the bill. Who's up for this bill? Goldie, there's your hand stuck to the camera. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 76 votes in favour, 26 against and 1 abstention, this bill has been passed. Passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we shouldn't continue to discuss the agenda today, just a little bit to say what we're going to do tomorrow. So tomorrow we should start with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, and with these points 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. These points from 8 to 12 means only nomotechnical transfer of substance to value added tax in these laws, so I suggest that a united discussion be carried out on these laws. After that, when the Committees on Health, and the Committee on Legislatives and other interested committees hold a debate on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, then we will return to it. Since we stayed too late, I suggest we continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. My colleague Antičević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40978	Mr. President, you have just announced that the law has been passed, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly is an organic law because this law is governed by human rights and fundamental freedoms. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. Article 42 is replaced by the The constitution states that the public gathering and peaceful protest are constitutional categories, therefore, you have violated the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, i.e. this law did not receive the necessary majority of 77 votes and we announce the Constitutional Appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-12-0.u40979	Thank you very much. If there was a breach of the Constitution, it wasn't me who committed it, it was him who did it by voting. Otherwise, in that article, the Constitution you quoted failed to say if the Constitution of established rights and freedoms were to be elaborated. But you will, if you want to file a constitutional suit and bring that law down. So it's ten o'clock tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
