ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36523	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. On the agenda (a) Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004, (b) Report on audits carried out for 2003, (c) report on audits carried out for 2003 – specific part – official secret. I ask the state auditor, Mrs. Simu Krasic, to further explain the proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36524	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before you there is another report from the State Audit Office, the report on the work, the report on the audits carried out. It is common for each year to submit a report by the end of the year for the previous year. This is one jubilee report the tenth in a row, and I think you'll see all those who've read, that it's much better than it's ever been before. The State Audit Office was established and started in 1994. During the first few years of work, the Office has worked on its structure with the implementation of the audit and training of employees. Today it is organized through the central office and 20 district offices in the county headquarters. In 2004, of the planned 301 employees, there were 273, slightly less than the previous years, as a dozen auditors left the State Audit Office, of which 230 are high professional equipment or 84%, and 225 are authorised state auditors. We know that we authorised state auditors can carry out independent audits. In order to carry out the tasks, a single annual programme and a work plan shall be adopted to enable a better organisation and implementation of individual audits, as well as a more complete use of the working time and professional capacity of the auditors. According to the provisions of the Act, the State Audit Office is required to carry out an annual audit of the state budget, funds, i.e. at the level of the Republic of Croatia and the budget of the units of local or regional self-government. The audits of other entities shall be carried out under the work programme of the State Audit Office. All we have to do here is mention that there are about 10.5 thousand subjects who file financial reports for us. So they're all potential entities of the State Audit Office audit. In the last three years, apart from regular audits, the Office has carried out audits of conversion and privatisation. A special report has been submitted on the revisions of conversion and privatisation carried out in this House. The audits covered 720 entities of 570 local units, state budget, 19 ministries, 9 state institutions, 5 agencies, 3 funds and 113 other beneficiaries of budgets involving institutions, certain companies owned by units of local and state and other entities. The audit procedures cover the total budget of HRK 104 billion. The revenues of the state budget are 88.8 billion kuna or 85.4%, the revenues of the City of Zagreb 4.7 billion kuna or 4.5%, while the revenues of all other local units are 10.4 billion or 10.1% of total revenues. Contribution to pension insurance since half 2001 and contribution to health insurance and employment since the beginning of 2002 are revenue from the state budget. In 2003, a contribution to health insurance amounted to €12.3 billion and a contribution to pension insurance of € 13.8 billion and to the employment of €838 million. The expenditure of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance amounted to $13.5 billion, with insufficient funds of 1.3 billion kuna being compensated from the state budget. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been shown at 22.7 billion kuna so that the disbursement of 8.9 billion is compensated from the state budget. For pension payments 22.1 billion kuna has been allocated, or almost twice as much as the funds collected from the contribution. The employment contribution was made in the amount of 838 million kuna, and the Employment Service spent 915 million kunas from the funds transferred from the previous year. The revenues of the City of Zagreb and other local units have also been achieved in greater amounts than last year for 1.9 billion kuna or 11.5% since local units took over certain basic and secondary education, healthcare and social care financing commitments in half 2001, which provided them with additional funding from the state budget and increased share in income tax. In addition to budget budgets for 2003, other public funds amounting to €9.6 billion were included. They relate to their own revenues of the Institute of Health and Pension Insurance, the revenues of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Roads, highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb. The total audited funds in 2003 amount to HRK 113.6 billion or 58.8% of gross social product. The total audited funds in 2002 amounted to 102.7 billion kuna so that the 2003 audits covered 10.9 billion kuna more than in 2002. The audit procedures cover financial statements and the business of the entity. In addition to verifying whether the financial reports are drawn up in accordance with the general principles and standards adopted and whether public funds are used in accordance with legal and other regulations, the audits shall also include an evaluation of the economic performance of the activities as well as the effectiveness of the achievement of the objectives of certain programmes. The audits shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the State Audit Act, international audit standards applying all other national audits in the world. In accordance with these standards, the audit shall be carried out by a team which allows for a professional and quality audit procedure. The audits carried out shall be drawn up a report with findings and recommendations and an opinion on the business and financial reports of the audited entity to which the legal representative has the right to demonstrate or clarify certain facts. The statement is being incorporated into the report and becomes part of it. This avoids inaccuracies and misunderstandings regarding the determination of the factual situation. A high degree of protection of the interest of the audited entity and the objectivity of the audit reports is ensured. It also speaks of the fact that only five objections to the audits carried out during the past reporting period have been made. It means that audits have been carried out professionally and has undoubtedly been established in a factual manner so that recommendations are accepted by the legal representatives of the audited entities. All reports were submitted to the legal representatives of the audited entities, the councils and the local units' assemblies so that certain measures could be taken and irregularities could be removed where observed. In addition to objectively identifying the facts on the business of entities and giving orders and proposals to improve the business of State audit tasks set out in the Law on International Standards, this House and the public have reported on how public funding is available. All data collected during the audit are official secrets until the report is delivered to the Croatian Assembly and at local level to representative bodies when they become available to the public. After the debate in the Croatian Parliament, full reports are available to the public via the website of our Office. I stress that our Office does not have the authority to take any criminal action but that is done by the other state institutions we are working with. It should be stressed here that this is in line with the accepted international standards and guidelines of the European Union with the audit practice of other countries. However, as of this year, we are asking the audited entities to report on the measures taken according to our reports within 60 days. In this Report referred to the Croatian Parliament, the summary reports on the audits carried out consisting of three parts, opinions of general data, findings and recommendations shall be provided. In accordance with international standards and the usual practice of other audits, after an audit has been carried out on the basis of the audit of the facts identified, the opinion on financial reports on the business of audited entities shall be expressed. There are four types of opinions which differ unconditionally, where irregularities have not been identified, provided that irregularities are identified which are not relevant for the understanding of financial reports or which do not affect the business of the audited entity. In cases where significant irregularities in business have been identified, an unfavourable opinion shall be expressed. And the last kind of opinion is a abstention when the documentation is insufficient or there is no way of expressing an opinion at all. During this reporting period, of 56 audited entities at national level in 7 subjects, an unconditional opinion was carried out, 3 unfavourable, while other audited entities had their conditional opinion drawn up. In subjects where an unfavourable opinion has been expressed we have made during the year with these entities that they have acted on our findings so that the Croatian Olympic Committee has accepted all the findings and corrected, the implementation of recommendations and our findings in the Hydrometeorological Institute and REGOS is under way. ... the data relate to the basic financial indicators of the audited entities, and the findings and recommendations state in a reduced form significant irregularities in their business and state the reasons and recommendations of the State Audit Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Allow me to present the basic data from the audits carried out during 2004 after this few short data. As audits have been carried out for the past 10 years, however, some irregularities are still being repeated. The most frequent irregularities can be grouped into three basic groups, accounting business, income and income, and expenditure and expenditure, especially in the part of the planning of funds and dedicated expenditure, and public procurement. Since the new accounting system is only applicable for the second year in 2003, irregularities affecting the area still occur but have not been as numerous as in the previous year. The most common irregularities relate to a list of assets, liabilities and claims which have not always been complete or have not been harmonised in real and accounting conditions. These financial reports, which did not contain all the necessary information or were not timely in line with the data contained in the Treasury. Some failures as an example are irregular records of income and expenditure of data presentations in financial reports and similar to what was not relevant for the whole business, discussed with audited entities are given certain instructions and part of the irregularities corrected during the audit. Irregularities in the part of income and income, expenditure and expenditure most often relate to budget revenue planning and to the implementation of expenditure above planned amounts. The revenues were not always planned in real size and expenditures were executed above the plan or not planned. It has also been observed that individual expenditure in the recording of positions in the accounts that are not intended for this purpose cannot be obtained in full and thus cannot be obtained a complete picture of the implementation of expenditure by individual purposes. In certain cases, the own revenue generated by the budget users is not paid in favour of the state budget as to why there is a legal obligation. The State Audit Office has warned of insufficient control of the transferred funds, significant funds are transferred to budgetary extra-financial users and not controlled what the internal audit is going to do in the future, which is precisely in the establishment and beginning of... The third significant group of irregularities concerns non-compliance with the rules relating to public procurement procedures. Special attention is given to the revision of the public procurement process as significant funds are spent for these purposes, for example only for the purchase of non-financial assets during 2003, 5.4 billion kuna or 5.3% of total budgets. According to statistics from the Bureau of Statistics, about 18 billion kuna was spent on capital expenditure in the public sector in 2003. Although the Public Procurement Act has been in force for the third year, numerous irregularities have still been observed, most often refer to the lack of procurement plans, the appointment of commissions for the implementation of procedures, the implementation of public procurement procedures or the collection of offers, the offer documentation, the selection of tenderers, the assembly of contracts, and the monitoring of contract implementation. At local levels irregularities occur in a small number of local units in borrowing because no consent has been obtained for the task. The debt effected outside the law of the prescribed sizes and credits were subject to other obligations other than those intended for use. However, it has been observed that some units could not meet their obligations if they had not done so from these funds. Irregularities in business and financial reports were audited to the need for a strong internal audit from the establishment of an internal control system, and therefore state auditors warned of the need to set up an internal audit. By passing the budget law in 2003, the role of budgetary supervision has been amended and implemented by the Ministry of Finance in all legal and physical persons using budgetary resources. Instead of internal surveillance, users are obliged to form an internal audit, just under a CARDS programme implemented by the Ministry of Finance and all other users of funds called "Internal Financial Control in the Public Sector and Internal Audit". I think it will soon function and all of these irregularities will be significantly less future, because these audits will carry out previous controls rather than ex post as the State Audit Office. The State Treasury, which has a supervisory function in one of its segments, functioned in 2001, and further develops and public debt operations, part of the accounting of the state budget, and ties to foreign payment traffic have not been fully established. Therefore, all this project should be completed in all parts as planned and further work should only be done on its improvement and improvement. The borrowing of the Republic of Croatia by means of foreign exchange accounts, listed in part of the report relating to the state budget and this segment of business, should be paid due attention with a view to removing irregularities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in this brief presentation, I just wanted to draw attention to the work of the State Audit Office, its structure, its tasks, how to draw up the report, to apply the standards on the basis of which the audit is carried out, and to the fundamental and significant shortcomings identified by the audited entities. I will look briefly at the programme tasks for 2005 of the State Audit Office. During 2003, a strategic development plan was adopted, representing a long-term plan and a system of development and improvement of the State Audit Office. The plan was in line with the standards of the European Union and adopted by... which, on behalf of the European Union, the European Commission carried out an external audit of the State Audit Office. According to this document, jobs and tasks are set out in the next period relating to continuing to carry out audits of financial reports and operations set out in the State Law..., specific activities aimed at auditing the effective spending of public funds. Furthermore, to carry out continuous education of auditors at all levels. Co-operate with other authorities, professional and scientific institutions, taking into account the independence and independence of the audit profession and beyond, developing and establishing cooperation with other top audit institutions at the European and global level as well as cooperation with countries that have related audit systems. This not only improves the quality of the work of state auditors but contributes to further developing international relations. Continue the ongoing process of modernising the information system and linking it to other public sector information systems at national and local levels. It is these days that the State Audit Office receives information equipment obtained from, from the European Union Card Programme, equivalent to EUR 400 000 consisting of equipment and programmes. So here we are from about half this year, each auditor will have their own laptops. We have adopted the European Union programmes on the implementation of the audit, on the monitoring of audits and on all auditors, or on the course of audits and on the coordination of the full work of the audit, our audit with audits in, members of the European Union. In the context of the process of integration of the Republic of Croatia into European integration and, above all, to adapt the way of work, to implement international obligations and to seek to participate in joint projects using the knowledge of other European and global state audits. Now one of our auditors is on the exercise work in the State Audit of the European Union which takes five months to train her to accept funds and European funds so that we can carry out audits, because this is required by the State Audit Office, when these funds are used to train her, behind this we get, I think another person will go to training. The independence and public work of the office must continue to be present in the business and audits carried out. Evidence, in addition to our reports on the Internet, or web pages of the State Audit Office, which made our reports available not only abroad bigger and abroad. That's what we've satisfied... the principles of work, but this is the principle of the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, it would point out that in 2004, the National Audit Office was involved in the Cards Programme, which will work on a project to strengthen external control over the implementation of the budget in partnership with the UK. The project has already been implemented since 111 last year. It will take 30 months and will cover all areas of state audit work. The financial audit programme has just been implemented. All state auditors of the offices are scheduled to pass these programmes, seminars and thus contribute to a better quality work of the State Audit Office. Ours, me and our assistants, we've already been to the UK, and all the leaders, or all the bosses, are scheduled to go through this program, but in London for eight days. So the first group of eight people has already spent, now the next one goes, etc. We hope that, in line with these standards, we will also achieve better results, i.e. to bring all that is required in, the European Union in these negotiations which, so that very little will be left for us when the negotiations begin that we need to coordinate something in the national audit with the European Union standards. Thank you for your attention, and we're here to provide answers to all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36525	Thank you very much to the state's chief auditor, Mrs. Simi Krasic. And now we ask you to come forward with a report on the audits carried out which is a special part of the official secret. First of all, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to remove the official secret from the State Audit Office's report. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that the Committee's proposal has been unanimously accepted. In accordance with Article 11. The State Audit Act was submitted by the State Audit Office to those reports. The material and CD for points a and b you received into boxes, and the material for point c you received in person. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Before we move to the debate, we welcome the students of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb who are today in our session. Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr. Representative of Šima Prtvenjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36526	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on Finance as a parent working body discussed this report. In the first part, not to read everything we just heard, a summary of this report contained in the first part. But the other part that the Committee has discussed allows me to brief on this. The Committee supported the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which the Government took note of the reports in question and pointed to some findings of the State Audit Office on the basis of which it was assessed that the accounts do not provide full and timely information on the total public debt, assets, obligations and claims of the State. In the Committee's discussion, it was noted that the work of the State Audit Office in the past 10 years made significant positive developments in budget users in spending and rational management of budgetary resources. However, it has been observed that the same irregularities have been repeated for many years in the audited entities, which is, in the opinion expressed, due to insufficient professional training of state and local government employees and possibly self-government. It has been warned of many failures identified by the revision of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So, besides, just let some of them. For example. No receipts in the 2003 financing and accounting account amounting to 576 000 900 and some kuna under the approved loans of HABOR, the Ministry of Public Works of Reconstruction and Construction for the implementation of the organised reconstruction programme 2002-2003 and 2003 and 2004 were recorded. No part of the short-term debt from 2003 in accounting and annual financial reports has been expressed. No costs were recorded in 2003 and their transfer in 2004, which is why the deficit of the state budget is not shown in the real size of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia indicated when taking over this mandate. The rebalance of the financial plan "Croatian highways" planned a significant increase in the deficit amounting to a billion 556 million 325 thousand transferred in 2004. The Croatian Parliament did not agree to this rebalancing, nor was it included in the consolidated revenue and expenditure plan of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2003, which is not in line with the provisions of the Budget Act. Expensive expenditure and expenditure relating to projects of individual ministries financed from loans from international financial institutions and organisations from specific foreign exchange accounts not related to the single system of state treasuryes are not recorded in the main book of the state budget. For example, expenditure on the Iberde railway modernisation and reconstruction project of 62 million, etc., for the Iberdea railway modernisation and restructuring project of 37 million and some kuna. Secondly, the PRAS form does not show any receipts from KEF loans for the reconstruction and modernisation of Croatian railways amounting to 78 million as well as expenditure on the financing and loan project of 7 million. It's not a complete record of the list of all loans and debts of the state. The review of the guarantees issued and activated and the state of debt with all the necessary elements does not cover all data for the previous years and 2003. There is also no overall data on loans and guarantees that the State has taken over from individual users of the state budget or individual companies and has paid them instead. It's not part of the commitment to the Holy See. The Croatian Bishop's Conference for the period from 99 to 2003 is not registered in obligations, i.e. obligations are not recorded in accounting and balance sheet. According to the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2003, the value of the new financial guarantees was made, i.e. it was established in the amount of 5 billion and 900 million kuna, and a guarantee of 9 billion kuna was issued which makes a difference of almost 53% nominally, i.e. a relatively nominal statement. In addition to the Committee's discussion, the majority of guarantees issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 do not meet the criteria set out in the decision on the criteria for granting state guarantees. The Committee took the view that the work of the State Audit Office has received significant positive developments in the audited entities in spending and in the rational management of budgetary resources. However, it is necessary to continue to insist on a more rational management of public resources and on the conduct of operations in accordance with the legal rules. The State Treasury project should therefore be put into operation in all its segments in order to achieve the objectives set. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose unanimously to the Croatian Parliament the following. It is noted: (a) Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004, (b) Report on audits carried out for 2003, and (c) Report on audits carried out for 2003, a special part, as we assumed we would remove this seal of secrecy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36527	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36528	Well, here's the first part of the Financial Committee's position, and we remember a lot of debates over the last year about the state of public finances and public debt, and then the government deficit and all those problems we had. Of course, there were different interpretations of why certain such different attitudes and interpretations occurred. Finally, we have the position of the State Audit, which confirmed, that is, most of these phenomena that occurred during that period with the assessment and certain binding conclusions. Let us therefore, in this report, how much time it allows, of course, warn of those problems that the review has identified, confirmed, therefore, in its written report and based on it eventually and gave an assessment of what should be done of course. Here we have heard in this previous report and I will repeat, not chronologically, but about the importance of the phenomena that occurred in that budget in that year of public finances, certain phenomena that we hold should be eliminated as soon as possible and which should no longer be repeated and reported. Of course, all of this will depend on the speed and dynamics of the formation of the State Treasury, since it would then be much easier to manage state, or public resources, especially public debt, which will for many years torture the Croatian state. In the first warning that the revision warns that business books do not literally give a quote, so a very short comment does not provide complete and timely information on the total public debt on state property, on the state's obligations, on the state's claims. Then there is, of course, foreign debt, long-term, short-term debt and everything else. What this suggests is excessively speaking, but of course in such poor records and such poor insight or better to say not to see public finances, it is not possible to conduct an economic correct policy so that the state should, in view of the height, especially foreign debt. It is warned that most of the state's assets have been unrecorded over the year we have heard here a debate about how we don't even know who our public institutions are, especially our companies, and many other assets for which the state still doesn't know who it is, and how it can only manage such assets, I think it's completely unnecessary to point out. The audit also finds that guarantees, mainly provided by guarantees, and that there are no records in the insurance of these guarantees, which means that the state is very mismanaging in this segment of guarantees which, at a certain point, can burden the state budget, so unfortunately it has happened in the previous time that the administration of the state budget paid the price of such a situation and such guarantees that are not recorded. The State Audit also warns, in particular by pointing out, I will not list all together, records and insights in fact, and then management of funds that were from different sources intended for the needs of HH. In addition, it is clear that it can then be calculated later and talk about how and what funds were intended for what, but within these funds, the audit finds that these funds are not recorded or better said that they are not well used. In foreign exchange accounts, it's a very interesting phenomenon no matter how many of them we are, but the state as a state has had a lot of foreign accounts, and I'm particularly taking out foreign exchange accounts that were held at the Bank of Commerce and Raiffeisen Bank. It is said in the official report that it is mainly not recorded, i.e. that the state of these accounts is not known and even in the foreign exchange account of Raiffeisen the bank warns that it seems to me that three times the funds have been withdrawn, and that no documentation has been given to do so, of course, which can be doubtful and the purpose of such funds for which they have been paid. Thus, the foreign exchange account sector is absolutely also involved in the business of irrational management. In the absence or misrepresentation of state property, many other problems arise, and many of them arise, of course, when, from that part of it, eventually dividends or the acquisition of state-owned public enterprises that we don't even know about, or those we're co-owners, we don't know who we are, what state of such property we can have, how we can only manage it. It also says in the official report that there is no or very bad state record of the concessions issued because part of these revenues is shared with local self-government units, and a significant part of these revenues belong to the state budget. Therefore, if the state has no insight and does not know what concessions it has in any way, it cannot have control of the collection of such claims, and obviously there is no record of the contract that could be managed by these contracts and that measures could be taken in time in the interest of the Croatian State because it is a national good, mostly maritime good, but also forests and many other assets. As the next problem arises in the report of the audit, the change of revenue in that year namely the rules which conditional upon the change in income, especially for the first time the revenues from pension and health care were included in the state budget, and that the records and the different data also result in different amounts, which could result in a certain difference that should then be determined here at the end of the year by the Assembly or other competent authorities, and, in particular, in the Assembly, the budget rebalancing. It has also been concluded that no commitment has been made to the Roman Catholic Church in the amount of contracts the state has signed and taken to the amount of about 260 million kuna, which, of course, remains a debt, and all of this, I point out that the positions are precisely those that follow and continue. In fact, they are transferred as obligations in 2004. It has been specifically warned of payments, and then the need and accounting of funds allocated, e.g. for elemental disasters and others. So I remind you that last year we also argued, and now once again the revision confirms that the payments from some, indicatively, 800 million kunas that were paid or made commitments for droughts that occurred as the biggest natural disasters in that year have never actually been made in the final account. Because the final reckoning means that someone should have returned some of the funds that he did not or did not purposely spend in that time. And it's for sure that there are any. Thus, it was absolutely necessary to carry out such a calculation so that the final state with the resources allocated could manage and manage. The records and monitoring of public debt are also established that this public debt, at least according to official documentation, is not fully covered and can of course not then be talked about the public debt as well as the policy involved. The next phenomenon, which is particularly unacceptable and which must never actually happen, and especially in future times, is the break-in of HAC funds for about a billion and a half kuna without the parliament's approval. The breakthrough was carried out, the funds were increased, transferred in 2004 without debate in this House and we think absolutely according to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and under all other laws it is unacceptable. And such budget penetration was not possible without saying that there were other actions, especially in this part of the HAC and the construction of these capital facilities, any significant costs not recorded, and they were broken down to the next fiscal year, 2004. The receipts of the debt, e.g. following the amendment and the budget of the plan, were then established, and were broken past the plan for about a billion and a half kuna, which was not rebalancing again. Loans and obligations for purposes are mainly used by a regulatory, cross-sectoral regulation instrument, but not by the end of the year through the State budget rebalancing instrument that needs to be passed on to this House. Here, allow some of the phenomena to have a significant impact on the state of public finances, especially public debt. It is a record of the repayment of the loan and now a literal quote so that we can discuss it better and, of course, draw some conclusions from that and measure. He says that "the funds of individual loans are not withdrawn within the agreed deadlines, but are delayed and compensation is paid for the used part of the loan, and on the other hand the state is additionally in debt". This is one example and this is the State Audit's finding that public funding cannot be managed. And then this part, very briefly, at the Department of Defense. The fact also says that fees and interest payments were paid for not withdrawing funds. So, for funds that haven't been used, it hasn't been used, but the state pays the fees neatly. Many loans, too, the code, and an example of the IBRD, the IBRD, the CEB and the EIB is listed here. The CEB is particularly current in education and health care, it is also similar to the situation in these previous ones that mainly due to poor records have not been used or there have been payments of certain costs as they have been in this particular example with the Ministry of Defence. With HABOR, we especially warn once more about the phenomenon, and it is now confirmed that HABOR has finally given and funded the Ministry of Public Works in part and the construction of particularly family houses and that this part has actually been out of the system of records. That he did not constitute a government public debt and that he was not famous in that year although he did and happened. Therefore, we can ask whether it is intentional or by accident that a largely lack of such records does not allow public finances, i.e. the state of public debt. It's the same occurrence of interest unsecuredness. So in paying interest, it also happens that because of these lacks of these records and such phenomena, the state pays significantly more interest than it should. I said earlier that with shares and shares, in those societies where the state owns, if the state doesn't know what the owner is, what kind of records then exist in both the shares and the portion of those revenues that it should contain. A special phenomenon in state guarantees. It seems to me, I'm going to say, in my memory, of course, that it was recorded that the state issued about 5.6 billion guarantees in that year, what was recorded, and really issued over 9 billion guarantees. It can be said that the guarantees were either this or that kind or that they eventually didn't have to come for payment. But since it's a huge risk, and you never know what kind of guarantee is actually going to come to a charge, then absolutely puts the attitude, the conclusion that there's an inadmissible difference, almost 53% of the difference between the guarantees recorded and the difference between the guarantees actually issued. And from that comes this doubt, the other day we heard, and we'll probably hear more discussion about "Lance." Here's an absolute finding, since here at the end, let me just point out what specifically warns the revision, that there was one phenomenon. That the Ministry of Economy, which had to be issued by the Ministry of Finance, had to propose to the Government to issue such guarantees, but there were cases that the Ministry of Economy issued such opinions and based them on the issue of guarantees. And also, at the end of the conclusion, that the state did not, I quote, "the state should not have issued guarantees to the Lenac Shipyard because it was a part of the guarantees. Since time does not allow, just a finding in that part. And finally, that, that the changes in the budget were mostly made without Parliament's approval, that is the conclusion and the view that this must not and cannot happen. Note that it was also from these current reserves that it was also non-intentional, i.e. no accounts were made, and then it may be suspected that there was a non-intentional spending of funds. And that such a state of public finances contributed to the fact that in 2003 a completely different deficit of the state was shown than it was actually achieved in 2003. Which, of course, restricts and hinders the work of the next period and simply cannot be transparently led by politics. Finally, the view is that our HDZ Club, without the introduction of a state treasury, regardless of the problems followed by the full organisation of the state, and of course especially public finances, cannot be effectively managed by public finances. Therefore, intensively continue to work on the formation of the State Public Treasury and in view of all these facts and phenomena that I have presented, and part of this we believe that this Report should be taken into account. In the end, it cannot be changed, and the rebalancing has not been changed in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36529	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Representative Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Luggage said the State Audit confirmed what was previously said about debts, deficits, etc. That's not true. The state audit of course finds numerous shortcomings, but says on page 73. "A significant positive shift in spending and rationale in budget management has been seen." In addition, the State Audit has not confirmed a small part of what has been said here about public finances before. Of course, as a mainly excuse for the current problems in state finances, lack of income, problems that make the IMF unable to accept balances for the past year, etc. By the way, it is a pity that the representative of the HDZ Club has not noticed and stressed that Croatia's state audit with this report has become.. which is getting closer to the quality of the work of European audits, which is very important for the activities to be done, and which are not listed here by the representatives of the board of directors or the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36531	Thank you very much. The first part of the correction, the second part of the opinion. Now there's still a correction Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36532	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the omak 800 million was mentioned as a basic accident that was paid, paid 400 million, and I remind all commissions at the lowest level of the municipalities, the county and the state county with the presence of the Assistant Minister of Finance, which estimated the damages with certain corrections gave to the adoption of the Parliament, the Parliament made decisions, the money distributed to local communities and the feedback each local community had to deliver to the State same commission. Everyone who thinks it's done somewhere else thinks, I say, they'd be a little fooled because they should have been in the field to see where those funds ended up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36533	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36534	Mr. Vice President, the state's chief auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the work of the State Audit Office and will vote in favour of accepting work reports and audits carried out. It has been 11 years since the establishment of the State Audit Office, and 10 years of audit work, and the annual audit covers a large part of the social-gross product. For the year we discuss reports almost 60% of Croatia's gross social product. We estimate that the State Office for Auditing from year to year in the Croatian Parliament delivers more and more quality reports and, with regular work, has done a huge job on the revision of conversion and privatisation. This is due to the work on education and raising the quality of the work of the state auditors. While the audit at the beginning of the work was about the control of documentation and the determination of illegality, today through its reports it also points to the observed irregularities, the legal disadvantages, the economicity and rationality of the spending of funds, and in this report for the first time the State audit gives opinions to the audited entities, and four types of those unconditional, conditional, unfavourable and unfavourable cases where there is no such thing in this report at all, when it is unable to give an opinion because there is no adequate documentation. We find that the State Audit works in one part of its work and educationally for all those entities who regularly audit their reports year after year. But this year, the State Audit Office report also found a reduction in the number of irregularities but also a finding that they are still numerous, that they are repeated, as the report said legislators do not take measures out of their jurisdiction to remove them, and while in the State Audit Office a continuous training programme is implemented according to international criteria in the state and local administration almost nothing is happening in that field. Since 2000, we have also had significant legislative activities in harmonising domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union. In parallel, it is necessary to work on training and training of people who have to do so or to warn about certain irregularities in the implementation procedures. Since this is not the case because the reform of the state administration is only in its own right, education programmes, warnings by the State Audit Office remain often or most often without realisation are missing. And we are concerned that, as in earlier years, this report has repeatedly pointed to several groups of irregularities relating to accounting operations, poor planning and unintended spending of funds, shortcomings in public procurement to unsecured assets. In mid-2003, new budgetary accounting was to be applied, the current principle of cash flow was abandoned and costs were recorded at the moment of business change. The new Budget Act envisioned the adoption of a significant number of implementing rules, but they were not adopted today, so we suspended some of the provisions of the Budget Act for 2005. The State Audit Office reports continue to read high centralisation and a large range of economic strengths of individual counties, resulting in different tax forces. This should be a reason for the government and the Parliament to find the moderations through the state analysis and take measures to eliminate such a situation. There is also an increased borrowing of local units by 7.9% compared to 2002, which is followed by certain irregularities, such as the lack of government consent, the borrowing of legal levels and the like. It also concerns the growth of demand by 12.1%, indicating the ineffectiveness of public spending in local units. As regards the state budget, the findings of the State Audit Office from previous reports are repeated year by year, such as the lack of reports on the total public debt, assets, obligations and claims of the state. It is pointed out that insufficient reviews of guarantees, other contractual relations and other data can result in obligations or increases in assets, conditions and deadlines of long-term and short-term loans, goods and financial loans. Revising the guarantees issued to shipyards, the State Audit Office recommends that a comprehensive discussion of how many states will subsidise shipbuilding and continue to deal with high losses. In short, I would also refer to the government's opinion from this very point of view, so the government suggests that this year's reports for 2003 be made known. We estimate that the reports are quality and realistic, and we ask why it is simply not accepted as we accept the opinions delivered each year, we do not have a representative of the Government to explain why the Government thinks they should be taken into account, whether the Government will not take the necessary actions as regards these reports because this refers to the previous mandate. Furthermore, the government says it indicates that some findings and very little space gives us the part that would be important to us, which is that the government will make such a situation not repeat itself. I will say precisely on this example of a recommendation on the debate on shipbuilding subsidisation where the government is not even aware of such a recommendation which is very important because the significant resources from the state budget are used to subsidise shipbuilding and part of the guarantees given to shipbuilding often comes at the expense of the state budget. Therefore, in the opinion of the Government, parts of the findings of the State Audit Office are commented which were taken as an alibi for the work of the current Government in the adoption of the 2004 and 2005 budget. It's about the level of the budget deficit, the change of the HAC plan and the like. It is only in the end that the government gives formal duties to the ministries that it should do. We would be interested to know what kind of report the Government has given on the measures taken by the State Audit Office, as we heard from the chief state auditor that the State Audit Office has requested such a report on the measures taken within 60 days of receiving such reports. It is our view that the Government must establish concrete measures for the short- and long-term character to remove irregularities that appear in the State Audit reports continuously. Therefore, we, we also suggested that the Croatian Parliament draw a few conclusions regarding the 2003 reports. First, to accept reports on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004 and on the audits carried out for 2003. Second, the State Audit Office reports shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to determine any criminal or criminal offences. Thirdly, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit within 60 days a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities identified by the audit to the Croatian Parliament. Under b, to take the necessary actions within 60 days in order to adopt implementing rules relating to, with the Budget Act, and to report to the Croatian Parliament. And under c, within 30 days through the Office of State Property Management, complete the list of assets owned or used by the State and report to the Croatian Assembly. Of course, we can also accept certain extensions of these deadlines if the government can then do more quality work. And in the end, I would only like to say in one sentence Mr. Prtvenjač speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club that it is not known what property the state has, that it is not known which companies and in what percentages the state is co-owner of them. He may best speak of it as the chairman of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's Supervisory Board for more than a year has not called a single session of the Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36535	Thank you very much. Mr. Shime Wretch, correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36536	... As the predecessors used in my case, so do I now use here along the way, it may serve as an answer although I don't answer them. [[Specially enabled.]] These aren't my incorrect allegations, these are the findings of the State Audit, from which the literal quotes I've been making before have been cut short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36537	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS's representative, Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36538	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed lady auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HNS Club, the PGS, will support these reports even though we have objections to certain allegations. In a report on the audit carried out for 2003 at the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, I point out the following in order. The application under point 1 pointed out that the planning of revenues and receipts is not comprehensive and realistically planned. The revenue from HBOR's debt was planned to amount to 212 thousand kuna, million kuna, as a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 26.7.2001 planned to extend the programme of organised reconstruction of one billion kuna. By 31.12.2002, 787 million kunas were used. During 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to continue an extended programme of organised reconstruction and approved HABOR's responsibilities for an additional 600 million kuna which could not be planned from the beginning of 2003. Since the State budget for 2003 was planned to grant the concessionary "Vina Istria" in the division of 0.25 the Ministry of Finance, and for 2002 the agreements on consulting services were concluded by the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, the Ministry of Finance provided funds to the Ministry of Public Works amounting to 13 million kuna for the settlement of the obligations of consulting services. These expenditures were not planned at the Ministry of Public Works in 2003, but in the division of the Ministry of Finance. The agreement between the Ministry of Public Works and the Croatian Highways, Rijeka-Zagreb highways and Bina Istria and the funds for this purpose could not be planned in early 2003. During 2003, the Fund of King Zvonimir allocated to the Ministry of Public Works through the Ministry of Finance donations of 15 million kuna for a programme of returnees and refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 29.3.2001. The funds for the project have been withdrawn according to the expenditure incurred to obtain construction material for BiH exiles. As the funds for this purpose are planned at the Office for Expatriates, Returnees and Refugees, they are not planned at the Ministry of Public Works. The Government of the Republic of Croatia project on POS is designed as a mixed funding model. Partly from the state budget, local self-government, commercial banks and payment of citizens' participation. Under the model, contracts were concluded with citizens to whom citizens pay their participation before the contract is concluded, and banks are paying credits to citizens. Since, according to the Law on Socially Encouraged Apartment, the institution of the APN project, the Ministry of Public Works was unable to plan funds from the payment of citizens' participation and approved loans to citizens. The Ministry of Public Works and APN, for the transport of real estate, concluded an agreement on the basis of which the Ministry had undertaken to carry out the work related to the preparation and implementation of the tenders, the production of project documentation, works of construction, technical reception and the promotion of facilities until training, i.e. staffing of the Agency. As funds from the participation of citizens and authorised credit funds were paid to citizens at the expense of the agency, and the Ministry of Public Works carried out tasks related to the construction of apartments from POS projects, the agency provided funds to the ministry. Other unremarked revenues relate to the repayments of previously paid expenditure. Payments of 2% for HRVIs under the orders of the State Audit Office, repayments of paid support for reconstruction of housing units from 1 to 3 degrees of damage, refunding of insurance companies, payments for public tendering, payment of penals and repayments of funds invested in the restoration of family homes. These revenues are slow-tracked and cannot be planned. Reference below 2 and below 3. The following remark refers to the fact that the expenditure in the ministry was higher than the plan. It is said 44.3% and are not shown in the financial year. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the financing of the completion of the programme of organised reconstruction in 2002, 2003 and the start of the programme of organised reconstruction in 2003, 2004 of 17.7.2003, an agreement was given for the insurance of funds amounting to about €600 million for the completion of about 4 000 150 housing units from the programme of organised reconstruction in 2002-2003 and for the start of the organized reconstruction programme 2003-2004 for some 4.5 thousand housing units. The same decision gave consent to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Banking Market Liability up to an amount of 600 million kuna. Point 4 of that decision obliges the Ministry of Public Works to plan the funds for the repayment of loans in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the following year, which is what has been done, and thus has been planned in the state budget for 2004 by the Ministry of Public Works. The main and interest payments for 2004 have been taken over by the finance ministry. By law implementing the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the 99th year, Article 23 and the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2000, Article 48, in order to settle part of the capital expenditure of the Ministry of Public Works, shall benefit shares from the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund until the full use of nominal value. Given that the use of shares is regulated by those laws, the ministry did not specifically plan the funds. The project of reconstruction in the war-damaged houses, infrastructure recovery, island development, regional development projects, the construction of apartments from the POS project, the construction of school projects are projects carried out over several budget years. The term of payment of works of 90 days has been agreed with the contractors and the funds for the payment of the situation for the implementation of the work from 10, 11 and 12 months are planned in the national budget for the following year. The budgetary situation for reconstruction jobs in the war-damaged housing units totalling 36 million 779 442 kuna was adopted at the Ministry of Public Works in early January 2003 and was the same after the review and verification of 27 January 2004 by the Office for Budget and Finance for further processing. It was not possible to review and verify the situation delivered in 2003 precisely since the transactions carried out on a continuous basis continue to take place. As instructed by the Ministry of Finance to draw up financial reports, budgets and budgets for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003, the deadline for the submission of financial reports was 2 February 2004 and the Office for Budget and Finance included all accounts from the situation in the Administration until 15 January 2004 in the annual financial report. It is interesting that the audit was carried out for everyone, that the audit was carried out for each calendar year and that this payment model was present in both the former HDZ government and the coalition government, but these recommendations were only now. Next remark. The following observation points to the collection of claims for advances made to the refurbishers. In earlier years, the ministry provided advances on the basis of the approval of the Ministry of Finance to performers of reconstruction works in the war-damaged houses that were calculated on the basis of the temporary situation of the contractors. A small number of performers stopped working mostly because of bankruptcy and it was not possible to charge the advance. The ministry is listed in that case as a bankruptcy. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance The application of the audit to the purpose of the budget spending. The funds spent in designing and preparing works on the adaptation of the Vojarna in Vlaška, buildings for the needs of the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Science and Technology. Over the years, the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Science and Technology has used more locations in the City of Zagreb, which, apart from the inconvenience and difficulty in organising the work for the result, also had unnecessary spending of the state budget. As a result, the government has decided to move the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Science and Technology to the Vojarna premises in Vlaška owned by the Ministry of War and to provide for further extension of the construction of the northern facility if necessary. The earlier government left the coalition authority with the obligation to settle the debt that eventually increased to 19 million kuna, which refers to the outstanding and unpaid works on the military Kuniscak. The government therefore decided to complete and settle claims on the military Kuniščak, which was also the prerequisite for this triple replacement, when adapting and moving to the Voyarnica space in Vlaška. In order for this complex project to be resolved, a relatively complicated new model of public private partnership was approached, which was not known until then in Croatia and was first applied, and all parties contracted should be satisfied by both banks and creditors and sellers and performers. That picture... the financing of the performance of the works, and the model was conceived by a 15-year payment at the level of the annual rent that the government had spent on renting the premises of these two ministries by then. Since this model in Croatian construction was not applied until then in the state administration, some specificities such as those were present. Inherited debt was necessary to engage professional legal services. All the necessary consent, location and construction permits were issued, and how the choice of a decision to conclude the contract was overlapped with the period immediately after the elections when it was uncertain who and what government would draw up, was considered an opportunist that the minister made a decision and signed the contract in the new assembly. It was also considered that the price offered was obtained at the re-licensed auction and that no agreement was reached with the only bidder in giving the usual discount was correctly opened to the new minister of re-competition and it was annulled at the end of November 2003. These costs are up to one cost of preparatory actions, and they will calm down when the future user shows interest in these premises, or perhaps the ministry in the manners of a good economic operator has already settled them. The damage was caused by this government, which did not complete the start of the project, but continues to pay unnecessarily at various locations in the City of Zagreb. In view of the observations on the costs incurred to eliminate shortcomings and safeguard buildings intended for victims of the Homeland War. In order to remove the gaps in apartments and joint spaces, the buildings have been agreed on by guarantee deadlines of two years under which contractors are obliged to their cost, stressing their cost, remove the shortcomings resulting from unquality or sloppy execution. The security of the realisation is secured by obtaining a 10% investment guarantee from the bank in case the contractor refuses to remove it. The problem of handing over and taking over apartments from the ministry's resolution has led to a prolongation of deadlines for carrying out the final accounts. For example, defence lists were not defined in due time or long-term disability checks and audits were carried out. Therefore, there was a delay in immigration, the cost of keeping was incurred and housing was to be ensured and organised in order to avoid devastations, violent immigration and possible costs of court proceedings for emigration. For all these reasons, it was necessary to protect the property and the state from further unnecessary costs and to ensure that buildings were kept for the victims of the Homeland War. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It is not true that the ministry did not have certain criteria. Unlike the previous government, which had no established criteria, i.e. in written form defined criteria immediately after the formation of the coalition government, the criteria for distribution in regional development, demographic, geographical, infrastructure, economic were established. It was spent on areas which had not been established by the Law on the areas of special state care and/or island development. in areas that are lagging behind and outside these areas. This is also the first time that the ministry responsible for regional development has intervened with its resources in areas which have lagging behind or had other difficulties and have not been covered by the areas listed above, the border area, the mountain-mounted area and other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36539	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, at our session is the National Council of the Republic of Austria's National Council, led by its Excellency, Professor Andreas Khol and our friendly Austria, Parliament, and I ask you to welcome them warmly. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. [[Applause.]] The first is Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36540	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The colleague, speaking on behalf of the CNS, said that when explaining certain positions of funds, for example, they could not have been planned for reconstruction in the budget because the commitments were established in the middle of the year. This is simply not true because obligations cannot be made unless there is a planned position and the planned amount, and the funds could be planned in the rebalance of the budget that was once or twice that year. And another thing, a colleague says that practice from previous years was also a transfer of commitments in the following year. This has also been identified for the following years as a deficiency and can therefore not be used as an argument for further violations of the law but should be corrected by previous audit findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36541	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36542	So here's two little ones, when it's already started. I will not correct the findings of the Audition as some have tried to correct me, but two statements by a colleague who, or her quote, could not be correct. First, that works carried out at the end of the year for payment within 90 days are transferred to the next period is, but all works were mainly completed and carried out during the summer. Thus, for the 11th 12th record, they were not declared to be obligations in the following year. And secondly, the resources for the development of the island are not used for the development of the island but depending on where Mr. Cacic had his private property. For example, in a settlement on the island, Pouljani on the island of Pag, in Preko on the island of Preko, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36543	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chief State Auditor and Associates of yours. A few, before just reports, several general notes, actually about how this report from the HSP Club is discussed. In particular, the report on the work of the State Audit Office and, in particular, the amount of material delivered on audits carried out for 2003, as well as all previous years, as well as the reports submitted in the last few years on the revision of the conversion and privatisation which all have together several, whose number of pages of these reports is measured in thousands, it is apparent that the State Audit Office does not actually lack jobs. And that job is quantitative, and we assume it's also qualitatively well done. But even though the quantity and thousands of pages do not necessarily have to mean quality. In fact, in such a vast amount of material there is always a great opportunity not to actually capture the essence of the report itself. Therefore, given above all the way of discussion in the Croatian Parliament and the level of media reality in Croatia, the easy availability of information with the help of modern technology, too much information loses its meaning and can have the same effect as the lack or lack of information and most often has. It should therefore also consider a different approach and discussions on the findings of the State Audit Office. In our court, it would be necessary to prepare text with measurement summary of the revised entities or to discuss it more frequently in the Croatian Parliament in a way that each audited body is a separate item of the agenda. From the example I will set later, you will see why there is a need for this. Furthermore, the last government made one precedent and amended the rules in such a way as to place state auditors in state officials and salaries, rights and obligations of civil servants depend on the government's will to regulate their salaries by its regulation. In addition, the State Audit Office has the obligation to report to the Ministry of Finance, and in this context we cannot talk about any independent position of the State Audit Office, it is quite clear. I suppose it's clear to everyone that whoever pays you, that you depend on him. As every year before us, therefore, there are a large number of entities, but this year there are no reports of audits carried out by judicial authorities, courts, state attorneys and criminal jurisprudence institutions. In the HSP Club, it is not clear to us why these entities are not audited, although they are both budgetary users and according to all surveys and surveys, the highest degree of corruption, bribery and irregularities is precisely with these bodies. We think we should perform an urgent review of these bodies. Reports delivered, however large for the debate in the Assembly, are nevertheless appropriate and should primarily be the basis for the work of the state attorney's office, police and other law enforcement bodies which, in the reports of the State Audit Office in rows and between rows, have an inexplicable source of information for the performance of their tasks and tasks. It's supposed to be the basis of their work, not the concentration of all strengths in the hazing of one man. Namely, through thousands of pages of material in a professional, quiet, self - secretive, cautious, and above all reasonable way, auditors tell us what the problem is. Of course, the voice of those and these reasonable people is quite quiet, and those who shout and seek the removal of someone's head is always loud. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as I was saying in the report on the implementation of the budget in the first half of 2004, those who remember are the most questionable and significant funds that were allocated to the associations. And based on intellectual and personal services. The system has been established, to repeat once again, in such a way that for the same thing associations or individual people from these associations are funded several times from different bodies and from different items. Without any possibility that these payments may be transparent. Therefore, if, from the reports submitted by the State Audit Office, we single out irregularities based on unconscious work, ignorance and accounting errors, the most significant irregularities we can reasonably suspect as illegal actions and the realisation of large property benefits can be classified in several categories. First of all, these are irregularities based on public procurement. Non-compliance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the Regulation on the procedure for the supply of goods, works and services, small values are present almost for all entities audited. And that's obviously the basis for considerable income to certain circles. Public opinion has already been addressed that it is actually the main item that enables the glory and luxury of many former and current officials. It is expected that the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction is ahead of a number of other irregularities in million amounts. The second category of irregularities is based on the implementation, non-implementation of programme plans and similar useless projects, grants to friends and the like, and personal and intellectual services. The creation of a legal basis for the treatment and allocation of funds to associations, companies, centres, institutes and even individuals based on the implementation of pointless projects is an invention of the former government but continues in the past year. For a significant transfer of such funds to the same-minded. So in the State Audit Office reports, we can see part of such pearls, so I'll just mention some. The ministry mentioned for public works, reconstruction and construction thus paid for the legal services of 345 thousand kuna and for consulting services of 226 thousand kuna. As a result, expenditure has been incurred in almost 50 000 euros for law enforcement activities, obtaining ownership papers and drawing up a proposal for a contract. Of course, it should be borne in mind that employees of the Ministry have all graduated lawyers and architects of architecture, construction, engineering, etc., prepared tender documentation and conducted a large number of competitions themselves but legal services are paid for these jobs. Another example is law enforcement and real estate intervention agencies. Watch out now for the implementation of the right of ownership book to the lawyer is paid 976 thousand 610 kuna, so almost a million kuna, and to make the matter worse, this fee is paid on the basis of the value of the investment envisaged on that particular land, not on the basis of the value of the land itself which was the subject of that sale. Therefore, the possibility of using a legal tariff is not used, but the tariff is determined according to the value of the investment for which you buy the land, it is indeed something that is more than interesting we really are masters in finding the possibility of hiding the money, least said. The Ministry of Economy example, the payment of subsidies without evidence, so these are the findings you have in this Report, the payment of subsidies without proof that users have fulfilled their obligations to the state, is certainly the case of Viktor Lenac Shipyard. The Ministry of Culture is obviously providing funds for friendly relations in somewhat smaller amounts than in shipyards, but that does not mean that we should not be dealing with such a job, because precisely because we have these huge amounts paid by friendly connections in Viktor Lenc should not be ignored too in the Ministry of Culture. That reminds me of that old girl when I was a little boy, that old party line, "defying, saving." But anyway, please don't let this report go as well. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison did not exercise control over the dedicated use of transferred funds to beneficiaries for a million-euro grant and nearly 500 000 euros, ongoing aid of 2 million kuna, pardon, capital aid of 300 000, current donations of 32 million, and capital donations of 105 million in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Act. In that ministry alone, the contracts for the total amount of work amounted to 2 million and 73,000 kuna, in part, have been completed for operations belonging to the regular activity of the Ministry. The Ministry of Health, for example, in the implementation of the "Live Healthy" project, received TV-spots and animation logos for which 161 thousand 846 kuna were spent, while the materials received were not shown on TV. Otherwise, expenditure on operating contracts in this ministry is 2 million and 300,000 kuna. In the Ministry of Science, this is particularly interesting, there is a famous centre "Bicro" or "Bicro" however you want, which has been awarded funds for the implementation of the project under the Sense Sub-programme, amounting to 26 million 624 thousand kuna, and is spent 20 million, and the resources allocated in 2003 are almost 4 million kuna. In addition to the untapped funds from earlier years, there are another 43 million kunas, so I am talking about neutral assets, and the Bicro centre has been given a total of 46 million kunas more funds than they needed, where that money is. Although, of course, the promotion of the Fast Same Centre programme spent significant resources on the economy almost not being included in its realisation, and beware now, the alleged goal of this programme was to connect science and economy. In the Ministry of Justice, the peak, as well as the culmination of damage, ignorance and haughtiness, is seen in the example of the Ministry of Justice where someone raises almost $200, not kuna, but 200 thousand dollars and the project is essentially not even launched. Namely, the loan of the international Bank for Reconstruction and Development, known as the World Bank for a project of technical assistance related to bankruptcy, is not realised according to planned dynamics. The implementation of the project started in early 2002, and the project is due to be completed in early 2005. By the end of 2003, according to this Report, $587,000,372 was withdrawn, which amounts to much more than half a million dollars, $315, and 666,000 euros were spent, of which I am particularly emphasising for the end, the first head of the project's fee of $183,000, 700. And the World Bank for Approved Loan was also paid a $50,000 fee. The same World Bank was paid, of course, the compensation for the unused part of the loan, as well as the interest on that withdrawn part of the loan that I was talking about here. And of the total funds planned, even though the programme is to be completed this year, 37% of the funds were withdrawn in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36545	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that at 11.05, it's 10 minutes' notice. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36546	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Chief State Auditor, Honorable Mr. Representatives. Mr. Rozic may not agree with me, but all these audit reports are like holy water. Finally, the conclusion of this home as so many times so far will say that it is required to remove irregularities without the report being addressed to the State's Attorney's Office, and in the end, we know nothing, because if it goes radically on this report for 2003, then it will take for 2004, 2005 and then never end up and all suddenly become criminals and yet it is not so. However, the first thing that bears now is the official secret. Department of Defense, on 31.12.2003. Moreh counted 31 thousand 145 employees today about 26 thousand. But why do I mention Moreh? Only because of the finding that the assets entrusted with use and management in most cases are not subject to procedures against the responsible persons in general when it comes to the assets of the MORH. That's why I started with him. There's a total concern. I know the MORH doesn't have any money, especially in the 2004 budget that was never smaller but that doesn't mean that they don't have to keep their assets. I'll only mention these abandoned catharina military barracks, Vele Lung, Pula. These were the old Austro-Hungarian military stations taken over by Italians, so Yugoslavia. In the late '90s, they're completely left to collapse and today everyone who wants to build their own stone building or wants to have some stone detail on their house then goes nice on that Katarina, Vale Lung and takes a piece of stairs, part of the ert, benches, baskets and even old cherries. Second, the M.O.P. and they build or build like an army without permission, and if anyone else does, then his skin will be cut off. But I didn't want to say it, but you know how much an apartment is worth in the MUP. 0,01 kuna. It's simple that a man can't believe it. However, which are now the interior ministry's own revenues and why they did not end up in the state budget. But again, the point is that in 2003, according to the MIP, 49.4 million kuna were removed from the account and another 44.2 million kuna in 2004 to 14.6. It'll probably be that much later, and that's inadmissible. Why was this obligation created on the other hand? Because they didn't pay overtime, extras for the area of special state care, civil suit fees, I don't really understand. The fee for the uniform yes, this second one I don't know what that means, but regardless of all these cases should be put in an ad act. First, in 2003, the state budget generates 88.8 billion kuna. To this should be added the City of Zagreb with 4.7 million kuna and 560 units of local self-government still around 10.4 billion kuna. So, the country is being waste 85.4%, the City of Zagreb 4.5% and the 560 units of local self-government 10.1% to show that public money. But what's interesting here? In 1996, the state came in, say, 34 billion kuna. Today and the report is for 2003. 88.8 billion kuna, local self-government units in 1996. 4.7 billion kuna, 2003. 10.4 billion kuna, City of Zagreb in 1996. 2.2 billion kuna, 2003. 4.7 billion kuna. So it should be noted that this standard is growing, that the state and cities spend more but instead of investing in the economy when Croatia is on Wednesday all money exclusively goes into consumption. One word we've spent or we'll spend ourselves. It's true what you have to admit. In 2003, it was undeniable, it lived better than in 1996, and clearly it was due to raise the standard due to four years of war but on the other hand it will not go on forever. The first to strike clearly in the time ahead will be the pensioners and parallel to them and the standard of each citizen of this country individually. However, the biggest absurdity in all these reports is the revenues of our counties. In absolute terms, the institutions have less than "2%" of that public money. I wouldn't even mention it if some counties weren't responsible for the so-called. General hospitals. Yesterday I was just listing some of the older statements, so I wrote to me one that Mr. Hebrang said 20.2. "Or health reform or bankruptcy." There, two days ago, there was this big health strike. And indeed this health care has problems because it is the most felt by the old people, the pensioners whose pension goes down year after year compared to these absolute amounts that will eventually increase this problem. But I mention it exclusively in the context of these general hospitals. Clinical hospitals are rehabilitated by the state, general hospitals are in charge of the county. However, as Countys with 200 million kunas, let's say their income can take care of hospitals with 220 million kuna of the necessary incomes, etc. I'm sorry you're not talking about VAT cuts. It still stands at 27-28% of the budget. Right, VAT is only spoken of before the elections, but after that, it becomes the highest tax. Clearly, VAT can't be abolished and pensions can't be restored, I don't know how to build roads, I don't know how to restore rights to NOB fighters, I don't know how to rehabilitate the economy, etc. or-or. But what am I saying? That, unfortunately, in a country that had only reached its 1990 gross social product in 2004, it does not seem possible. Or-or. That is why it is the obligation of people in politics not to deceive the Croatian public, which is why it is an obligation to tell these people the truth, that for a number of years unfortunately they will not live better. If they're okay with it, okay? And if they're not destined to fight for naked survival because it's obviously more than that social expenditure at this point that's hardly possible. Everyone is rightly dissatisfied and yet these social separations in Croatia are above almost all countries in Europe, not in absolute amounts, but relatively, with me always saying that the best social policy is a full-time policy. So that should be some Croatian ideal. Only when we reach it will we begin to live carefreely. There, two days ago, an article appeared in the "Evening List" of the Employment Institute, which lists unemployment rates in Croatian counties with a high title in Slavonia record 33% unemployment, the Croatian average is 19%, the lowest unemployment in Croatia is 6.1% in Istria County, in Zagreb 7.8%, in Primorje-Gorski then 12.7%. What is indicative of 2003 according to these reports is an eclative increase in budget debt of as much as 14.5 billion kuna or 14%. Unfortunately, we live on debt, we'll live as long as we can see. I'm sure it doesn't go on like this. Today, only external debt has passed $30 billion. Debt was slowed this year or last year, reaching again 30 billion dollars or 80% of gross social product. This year, I'm sure the foreign debt will get close to the $35 billion border. In 2006, close to maybe 40 billion dollars. This country will really disintegrate if this doesn't end. The day will come when we will simply not be able to serve this debt, and I think that the European Union is the only way out even though one is the European Union and the other is the monetary union that Slovenia is waiting for, for example. We gentlemen today need between $18 billion and $20 billion to service imports and debt. Where to make foreign exchanges? Exports are about $6.5 billion, tourism is $7 billion, someone says realistically 4. New annual borrowings between $5 billion and $6 billion, foreign credits between $1 billion and $2 billion. So we still manage to serve it, but how long? If we don't re-indust the country, we don't attract foreign capital, this illusion of a stable life can really break up like a bubble of soap. One solution might be radical decentralisation. Clearly both rights and money, not that all Croatian counties, as is the case in that division now, participate with only 2% because it is simply ridiculous. What is the key to all Croatian problems? These are obviously contributions. They have been achieved in the amount of €27.4 billion. So 12.3 billion kuna for health care, 13.8 billion kuna for pension, 1.2 billion kuna for employment, and on that basis, it's been spent to contribute about 40 billion kuna. So 40 billion kunas this country is out for pensions, for health care, for help, 18 billion kunas for wages. To this should be added plus 4 billion kuna for subsidies plus 4 billion kuna for aid plus 4.4 billion kuna for the material expenditures of the ministries plus 9 and a half billion kuna for the repayment of loans and then we can calculate how much left to start Croatia, for capital investments, for the development of the country itself. Maybe 10 billion kuna, and then there's no need to be surprised at the 6.7% deficit it was in 2003. In one word, if we keep that in mind, Croatia is gentlemen in trouble and we eat ourselves. From the fiscal capacity per capita Istarska County is seen in these reports in the first place with 2369 kuna. Then Primorje-Goranska with 2165 kuna. It's saying something again, and it's saying the state of guarantees in 2003. Who in Istria could get a guarantee? He could only get an Oilman. But Split County received 462 million kuna guarantees, Primorje-Goranska 102, Istria 65, Varazdinska 99.7, Sibenik 75, Osijek 61 million kuna and so on. According to this report, the most negative assessment in 2003 was given to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications and the Croatian Olympic Committee. I don't know if people have noticed that because of this concord between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia in 1998, the state owes them 257 million kuna. That was in 2003. In 2003, Kaptola or the Catholic Church received 185 million kuna, and the obligation was as much as 245 million kuna. Page 87. The current stock increased by 155 million kuna compared to 2002 and for INA sales advisers, page 89 spent 66.2 million kuna. And that's really a lot. In 2003, guarantees amounting to 11.7 billion kuna were issued. It was found to be financial guarantees of 5.9 billion kuna, and 9 billion kuna was issued or 52.6% higher. All the credentials in 2002, 2003, refer to shipbuilding, but I'm not quoting that now. What's he saying? This speaks of a major problem of Croatian shipbuilding. And where is which Croatian shipyard and that shipbuilding is in big trouble, and enough to say it is 2001. Ship Split showed a loss of a billion and 500 million kuna. May 3rd 600 million kuna, the Queen 20 million kuna, the Oilman is nowhere to be found. In 2003, guarantees in tourism are issued. Of the 232 million kunas and again fortunately there are no Istrian companies. So that's what you should say. The economy has been granted 179 million kuna guarantees. There are also no companies from Istria, page 107, which have issued 140 million kuna guarantees for agriculture. There's no one in Istria and so on and so forth. It means that the economy in Istria, with all the problems it is dealing with, is still more stable and confirms that out of $6.5 billion, exports to Istria are worth over $900 million, and this is the only county that has a positive growth in export ratio. This part of this report is certainly the best quality. He was highly processed regardless of what I said that this report by the world guide Croatia is without audit reports which is well no longer imagined and it in any case affects the seriousness of public administration behaviour regardless of whether it is municipalities, cities, county or state. And those reports and they're supposed to admit it from year to year are getting more serious. At all these levels only when it comes to someone being persecuted then it is exclusively reserved for municipalities, cities, county levels and unfortunately it all stops there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36547	Thank you very much. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports cancelled until a further meeting of the Committee, scheduled today for 13 hours. Mr. Vidovic cancelled that session. Croatian Representatives' Club, respected representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36548	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Like our colleagues so far, it's about a report on, from which we always learn something new and that's good. And I'll probably talk about some of the things I first read in the report to illustrate that irregularities exist and were there. But it's bad that it all ends up... Facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We find out and other bodies and other bodies that need to do what is in their jurisdiction obviously don't do their job. And this year we received a comprehensive and very professional report on the audits carried out for 2003. For most users of the State Budget, for a large majority of ministries, for state institutions, for units of local, regional and local self-government as well as for some companies. The failures are mainly related, as are the years so far, to unintentional spending of state money, the list of assets, non-recording. As a rule, the purchase of goods without a public tender and other irregularities appears. However, at the very beginning, I would like to say that there are also those audited entities where there have been no objections by the state audit which should certainly be pointed out and particularly commended. Since it is not too popular to praise and affirmative talk it is always easier to criticize, call and point to mistakes, I must note that there have been no irregularities in the Ministry of Education and Sports this year as well as in other and previous years. For years there, everything has been going on about the state audit reports, which cannot possibly be accidental and honoring the ministry's staff as well as the minister who headed the ministry. There were no irregularities with the Competition Agency either. At the Ministry of European Integration. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the Croatian Employment Institute, the State Institute for Motherhood and the project for institutional empowerment for the purpose of implementing the Montreal Protocol in the Republic of Croatia's Ozone Office. Because of the scope of the material, I will look at some irregularities in some ministries and funds in front of the HSS Club, and above all those who had the most irregularities in previous years and the irregularities that we think should be pointed out in the HSS because of possible future abuses. In 4, in 3 cases, the State audit expressed an unfavourable opinion as to how the lady explained this methodologically and, in others, gave a conditional opinion except for those in which it was all neat. I cannot not look back on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the audits carried out, and this opinion really grieves me. It is not to believe that the government in its opinion has shown, that in its opinion the government has shown itself almost only about one ministry, which has shown best care for taxpayers' money and their legal spending. On the basis of this opinion, it can be quite clear that this is a complete matter, and I would say to a volunteer political assessment aimed at discrediting ministers and people from that ministry because they spoke louder and louder about some irregularities in some government officials. It will also look little at the budget, the adoption of the Budget Law for the first time is based on the accounting principle and this is the occurrence of events, expenditure is recorded at the moment of business change. In 2003, revenues and receipts of the state budget increased by 10.8% compared to the previous year. In order to include income from contributions to pension insurance and privatisation income, which were recorded outside the state budget in 2002. Excise duties were also increased by 5% in 2003 and the most significant share was in excise duties from oil derivatives and cigarette excise duties. The cost of incentives increased by 69.2% in 2002, respectively, for companies for craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and farmers. In the amount of 2 million 518 million 650 thousand 151 kuna. This is a confirmation of how much the coalition government cared for small entrepreneurs and farmers. In 2003, funds to help citizens and households increased by 11%. Other expenditures account for an increase of 54.3% and above all for unpaid compensation for damages to public service employees, services that were unfairly and unjustly fired. And in this place I've already warned in the previous session of the Parliament that eventually all this will come to us fat on the charge and it always comes because someone dares to take the law into their own hands, and easily share layoffs by the state services or because of the color of the eyes, or because of blood cells, or for any other bizarre reason. If the reasons weren't exactly like that, I can assure you there wouldn't be. The cost of disbursement has increased by 8.8%. Attention should be paid to ensure that individual users do not return to the state budget on spent funds. The rents made for the rental of business premises are not paid in favour of the state budget. According to the state audit for the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County, it was observed that Zagreb owed the state 162 million kuna from the sale of apartments since 1999. They already have expenses over the proceeds of transparency are in the lease for real estate and utility fees. They don't even have a point value of property. A city that does not pay the government obligations but helps those who have and too much and finance which some retro-balls are tight for a narrow circle of people, which is totally unacceptable even for us. Who wants to dance let him do it for his money for his lizard. And make him pay well. If it was to help young future musicians, singers, it could have seemed in other ways not through scholarships or in some other way. Funding means bales, Potkin's villages are being built, it's recently the city that has not blinked apart one football club an extra 3 million kuna and I assure you that this much money in Split gets all the athletes together for the whole year. And beyond that, every little one, and down there, it's known, every little bigger street gives an Olympic. Perhaps Zagreb could do so and allow itself to have a gross domestic product twice the rest of the country in the best region. And not to mention several times more other regions that are lagging behind. This is not the situation I blame and it is not really the city of Zagreb. The only culprit is the state that has centralized everything, and as everything happens in the central and centralized state, the rest of the country only survives, vegetation and live life. Without a change in the policy of general and decentralisation there is no shift to the better, I assure you. Last week we discussed the proposal of our esteemed colleague Kramarić about the need to pass laws on large cities and again it seems there is no hearing and no thinking in this direction that decentralisation is the only real model and exit in the unequal development and development of the state. In the state budget, the fact is that major shifts in the management of budgets and irregularities are becoming less and less necessary from year to year in the last 10 years. In particular, better results are expected by the functioning of the Treasury and are expected to reduce expenditure and increase revenues. The audit also said something about guarantees that exceeded the established plan for 52.6% of the plotted plan and guarantees, as we always say, should be very careful. Be careful not to repeat old mistakes because they often turn into real debt. In 2003 86 guarantees were made from 49 financial and 37 effective. In June, the government takes over the debt of the Croatian railway D.o.o. According to banks worth 600 million kuna on the basis of the approved loans of September 2002. The list of Croatian railways did not record an additional guarantee of 3 million 520 thousand euros. Due to foreign banks' responsibilities for the modernisation of the Zagreb-Split railway. 18 guarantees have been issued for the Ministry of Public Works in favour of HABOR. Guarantees have been issued for shipyards clinical hospital Zagreb, TLM Sibenik, Željezaru Split, Sladoran Županja, HZO and others. For the guarantees of the day of the shipyard, for all and for the most shipyard of the 3rd May Uljanika, Brodo-Trogir, the Queen and Viktor Lenc. In these guarantees, it is disputed that the request was sent by the Ministry of Economy instead of the Ministry of Finance which did not consider or give its opinion. The Ministry of Economy for the Authorisation of Subsidisation for Shipyards has not collected evidence of compliance with the shipbuilding obligations to the State. The guarantees met the criteria set out in the decision on State guarantees criteria. Guarantees are questionable for me and for us in Viktor Lenc because it is a private shipyard, mostly owned by foreign banks, because actually the government has no influence on their work. They were supposed to ask for loans from banks that they owned. And they had an impact on the shipyard and they chose the administration and influenced the business policy. The HSS supports the proposal for a revision on a comprehensive analysis of guarantees and the need for a preparatory debate in the Government and the Parliament on shipbuilding and permanent provision of guarantees and, in addition to continued intervention by the State, business in these entities is still negative as we know. In the Ministry of Justice, in addition to the incomplete list of assets and the obligation not to perform the works and the agreed deadlines, our attention has sparked the loan of a world bank that lends loans to technical assistance projects related to courses and thus loans are not used in planned dynamics. The project leaves in 2002, due to be completed by the end of 2005. He's already talked about it, but it's not a waste of time. By the end of 2003, $583 million, $372 thousand, $587,372 were withdrawn. 11.7% spent $315,866. And 66 thousand 82 euros. The next first project manager is 183,000, 700 dollars. And the World Bank for the approved loan takes $50,000. Banks are also paid compensation for the unused part of the loan and interest on an undrawn and unpaid part of the loan, and that is $37,000.36. The loan was contracted for $5 million. I don't see a logic here to conclude a loan contract to pay benefits for an unused part of the loan, to withdraw the agreed funds and not to spend them for the purpose for which they were taken. And pay interest on undrawn funds and high fees to project leaders, and businesses continue to whisper. And all this is happening at the Department of Justice calling for reforms, and they can't use the funds according to the approved project. At the Croatian highway, the purchase of land was not realistically planned. Some investments have been made in excess of the plan, and some have not even been made. The distribution of land to the predecessor has not been made and is not recorded in special books of which part is in their possession. There's a discrepancy of public and core capital with the real situation. The County Road Administration does not provide monthly and annual reports on the cost of maintenance of local and county roads. Artists did not comply with deadlines and offers with the lowest price are higher than the planned value of works. Croatia's highway compensation for speeding up the construction of highways paid in one, is one contractor of $5m 500m before the contract was concluded. Why should deadlines be respected when money was won in advance? Indemnities amounting to 24 million 754 thousand, 755 thousand kuna on the basis of an additional contract concluded. It's easy for highways to pay taxpayers' money. Such a thing happened in the small chapel tunnel, the premium is 48 million kuna, and they did not have the consent of the supervisory board. The services of a lawyer are paid on a flat-rate basis rather than on a job done, it's already spoken of, giving these in advance for what they haven't done. But that's why they didn't settle their debt of 2 million and 41 thousand kuna for the defense attorney's housing. The Ministry of Environment shall pay the funds for the above-average work and the results of the work. We're interested in what parameters it's estimated to be. Maybe it's the number of stopped constructions or something, but we don't know that. The audit report frequently mentions cleaning and degasation cost ministries a million and a half kuna. So also the cleaning service ministry pays 249 thousand kuna, and the maintenance of transport funds is 431 thousand kuna. As with previous years, the Privatisation Fund has a number of irregularities and this list of real estates and their records on business books. The revenue shall be deducted from the planned, the assets from the shares, the share of things and the rights must not be retained but be paid into the budget. Three lawyers close the agreements on the cobwebs, no matter what the job's done. Uncoordinated status records, changes and portfolio values in operational records and business books. The value of shares and shares by other owners has not been made up yet in 98 years, long-term loans to the burden of the state budget for the inclusion of 21 companies from Podunovre into the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. According to the government's decision, the loan had to be converted into a share of the funds and those companies, and it was only done for three societies. A bankruptcy procedure and theirs has been opened for six, and the claim has been reported in the bankruptcy. And for the other 12 companies, the claims aren't turned into stakes. As time runs out, I could still talk about strange work, about taking money at 3% interest, while at the same time giving my own funds actually interest at 3% and taking loans at 4% interest and other irregularities. But in the end, I still have to say that the audit has done a huge job and that their effect is of great benefit because the irregularities on the part of the user are getting smaller and smaller. Significant positive developments have been made for budget users in spending and rational management of budget funds, although there have been the same irregularities in audited entities for many years. And in the end, we at the HSS will accept this report and expect it to be sent to all the competent state authorities so that not only information for our parliamentary representatives here in this Chamber remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36549	Thank you very much. Clubs have made their views known. We have registered for individual hearings of 42 MPs and MPs. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36550	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the first thing to do is to commend Mrs. Šima Krasic and her valuable team because, year after year, MPs cannot say anything but to commend her work. Reports from year to year are better and better quality not only by the State Audit but also by what is being observed in these reports. Yet there is a certain progress that is certainly far from the ideal state. This time in the report, we get first-time audits where parole is said to be estimated to be about 80% of the audited subjects, unconditionally 12%. This unconditionally means that they have worked immaculately without any objections. This conditionally means that there are fewer irregularities. It would've been good if there'd been an evaluation before, then we could've compared it to the previous states. We could see how many in the previous audit reports of the audited entities deserve this high assessment unconditionally, whether 12% of them were more or less. How much would you get a negative estimate against these three that you've got now. But if it wasn’t in the past, it’ll be in the future, so we’ll be able to see if things are developing in the positive direction that we feel now or in the negative. What is the constant about these reports and these discussions about these reports? Well, constants are constantly the same conclusions of the Parliament that don't constantly produce it seems to me absolutely no effect. Reports are accepted. Reports shall be sent to the State Attorney's office for further action, and the audited entities shall be called upon to comply with the law. And that's how it goes from year to year. When considering the reasons why the audited entities got this conditional, this conditional assessment means that they did not do very well, but also that they did not make any major mistakes, then it is concluded that this is insufficient professional, insufficient professional training of employees, means the clerk. Well, that should last one time, one time you should say enough because after all, those clerks had enough time to learn their jobs. Then either learn or not to work in the public service. Because it doesn't make any sense from year to year to realize that they're not trained enough to do their job. It would be good for them to learn their jobs. Why? Because we would then have fewer or less of these insignificant irregularities or irregularities of minor importance, so our attention could be better focused on the real major irregularities that deserve to be realised both in Parliament and in the public and certainly in the State's attorney's office, and, of course, consequently in court. This is how the attention of both the public and the representatives falls apart. Okay. So the clerks don't know, and now let's see, some do, but let's see what happened to the teams that know. Of the 7 audited subjects, the unconditional assessment means the evaluation of the impeccable work received them 7. So of all the audited, 7 got an unconditional grade. There are now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Integration, two institutions of the Croatian Employment Institute and the Croatian Mothering Office. What happened to those who know. They've been replaced. We don't need you in the state. Mrs. Dinder Dulcic was removed and her establishment was lifted. Mrs. Pozaic has been replaced. What message was sent to those who know? It's very dangerous for you to do what you do. That's what the government doesn't like. The fact that you're doing it impeccably is not what the government likes. You're not wanted. You need to be removed. That's where the message was sent. One of these institutions, not only has the head of lawless work been removed on the findings of the audit, but the entire institution has been removed from the Ministry of Defense where it died, there is nothing that the Family Administration does, and under the Constitution of the State must show special care for the family. And that's how the state shows its very own special concern for the family to lift the institution to move it to a ministry where it doesn't do anything. So, when these reports are analyzed, I think a brief final assessment can be given to make things better, going slow for the better, but still going. Another conclusion is that more attention should be paid to those for whom the State Audit has shown that they can work, that they are able to dispose of state money, to operate by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36551	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36552	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the State Audit Office. Well, I'll give up being honest about the debate I've prepared at home because it doesn't correspond to a debate here in Parliament. Since it is a discussion about the past, and we are top-of-the-line trained here, how many, 20 MPs have reported for this debate on the past in the Croatian Parliament. And that debate is repeated several times in the Assembly, so I'm a participant of these repeated debates, and that reminds me of student days. It didn't happen to me, but I heard that story. The student came in the fifth or sixth time in front of the professor for the exam and answered and the professor commended him that he had progressed in knowledge, in learning, but that it wasn't enough and suggested to be seen again. That's what a student, dear Mr. Professor, for making a little progress, will give me an index. So we might as well finish this debate, give us an index that we've made some progress. So we're discussing spending our citizens' money, but from 2003, and everything we can do here will end with a conclusion, let's send this report to the competent state authorities to determine whether there was an illegal availability of taxpayers' money and whether there was an unintended use of taxpayers' money, and there's our range. There's our chance when we don't want anything else. Well, I guess it's not our obligation to just realize that in spending state money, constant, permanent illegality and inadequacy, or unintentional use of money. It's not our job to say that 70 or 80 billion kunas have been spent even legally. It would be our job to accomplish our function as a supervisory body. As a supervisory authority and the responsibility of the State Audit Office is not according to the Government, but to us, we are responsible for citizens who have not received any new jobs from the spent 80 billion kuna. It's not reduced the cost of the state by a single kuna, and it's our job to ask those who are responsible for offering us a programme to reduce the spending of state money from the budget, not just to find out. If we were to add further that our task is to discuss within a fact that is not disputed today, it is still not working today and is seeking a job of 320 thousand citizens. It would be our job to look for why the revision of the conversion and privatisation of Croatian banks has not been carried out. Not to spread the subject, but isn't it more interesting to find out, and beyond that, ask the government and responsible institutions that the growth of Croatian debt is not stopped but is still in progress and that there are no projects financed from this debt. I already said here once I know that the banks are building apartments so that we can get out of the authorised citizens who have borrowed houses and cars and put them in apartments. We don't care about that. But that's what citizens are interested in. That's what citizens are interested in, and we're not wondering how to keep saying these destructive trends continue and we're just finding illegal, irresponsible, unfair, and there's no demand from the government to offer us a programme of development and a programme that will systematically disable or to the greatest extent spotlessly react to illegal or unsustainable spending of state money. Is that a good tool for the Treasury? Maybe organizationally. Maybe it's organizational. But the treasurer doesn't just make buildings, machines. She's being held by people. The basic human activity of everyone is the most important people. Whether we've also trained the State Audit, but also the State Administration and the State Administration to only have control over the spending of state money or not. We didn't. But worse, we're not asking the government to propose such a program. We're not looking for a program like that. My colleagues and colleagues may really sound like I would say not optimistic enough, but these discussions just show that we don't have a solution, so we tap in place, so every debate that's in the past is good for us. Instead of shorting out the 2003 debate and asking the government to suggest what it will look like in 2006 from the aspect of control, spot control of state money spending, or taxpayer tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36553	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36554	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam State Auditor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say immediately at the beginning that every State Audit report is an improvement in the work of not only our ministries but what I am particularly interested in right now, the regional and local self-government units. I must stress that as far as the government is concerned, these improvements are seen, and if, when we considered 1999 and 2000 and later, there is a marked improvement in the work of the state bodies. We cannot deny ourselves there, because there were a number of irregularities, mostly accounting, but very little illegality in the work of the state administration body. This should, however, be stressed and said that this is a significant shift in state money. Most often what we are dealing with and what is mentioned in all these reports is a public procurement process not only in the authorities but also in all public companies. Unfortunately, we haven't learned anything from that. I expect this government, if we are already calling for this, will come with a new Public Procurement Act that will facilitate the procurement process, both the authorities of the state administration, means the ministries closest, and the units of local self-government, as well as public enterprises. Let's not forget how often we talk one thing when we're in a position, and the other we talk and promise when we're in power. I remind my colleagues on the other hand that they were fiercely attacking the Public Procurement Act when he was at the adoption of this House of Commons. Unfortunately, it has been almost a year and a half since we have a new coalition power in the Republic of Croatia. There has been no change in this Law that would have been made to improve and speed up the procurement process. Often not at the expense of prices, but on time limits. I think that's exactly why, here, I'm going to give an example that we have in Varazdin County right now. The government established a customs office in Varazdin, Varazdin County, by its sublaw. That customs office agreed to the City of Varazdin and the Varazdin County to pay for the adaptation of the space, to pay for the furniture as well. It's over 2 million kunas right now. I am aware that the State Audit, when it is considered how the county and the city will pay for it, will record it not even as a violation, perhaps even as an illegality. Because the thing is, the customs office needs to be opened because of the need and interest of the economy immediately, but if it goes through all those stages of the public procurement process, that customs office will not be opened within a month or two. If it's open by the end of this year it's going to be a very significant shift. Therefore, I appeal, here is Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, for you but also for the government to prepare such an emergency law. One of the frequent violations listed in the State Audit reports is at least according to the counties, the distribution of money from poachers. We know that in the areas of individual counties where common hunting grounds exist, an annual lease is paid. And she would, the county should point that money towards the owners of those lands. Now we have a case like this. In the area of Varazdin County, the average property where we have hunters, or those land users, is about 1 hectare below. I'm asking you how can a county not get into a loss get that money back to a hunter, or landowner. Very difficult or not, but according to legal regulations, auditors, of course, correctly doing their job record it as a violation. And that is, and this shows that life requires us to change some other laws and we expect it to yet create or move towards the Croatian Parliament of Government. That's why I think often life carries something completely different than we have legal regulations. And most often for daily policy purposes, audit reports are used to attack those in power. Or those red, yellow, green, black, etc. One more thing I would end up doing or saying, it's that we still have to commend the people in the audit. They do their job correctly, relatively small numbers. We have heard from the state auditor that there are some improvements in the equipment, but we must recognise that the work of the State Audit is increasingly quality and quality, and that it also affects state bodies, as well as units of local, regional self-government. That every year, there's more and more quality work and there's less and less violations. I think I share the view that there are very little or to the least possible legal abuses. And it's also because of consultations often times with the State Audit, but also because their hands go through the papers that point to what needs to be done and how to do it. It seems to me that there is far greater responsibility with the bodies of state and government and units of local and regional self-government of public enterprises and on us as representative and legislative bodies to adapt the laws we bring to life opportunities and situations, so that they are not a hindrance to good and quality work especially units of local and regional self-government. I propose that, in accordance with and accept this proposal, the conclusion given by the SDP regarding the work of the State Audit and this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36555	Thank you very much. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36556	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Madam State Auditor with Associates. Allow me first of all to express my personal point of view, not only of view, but of our club. That we will accept the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004 and the report on the audits carried out for 2003 and the report on audits carried out for 2003 – a special part. Namely, there are several important reasons why it is important to accept these reports, and above all one important fact needs to be seen. To show great progress in the work of the State Audit. Independently, it is only beginning to apply amendments and additions to the existing law and new laws as well as a new methodology that is in line with international standards and in this respect is very, very important for the establishment of full financial security and stability on the one hand and public finances, and on the other hand for the rule of law and the establishment of a legal order. It is very important that, by means of the State Audit, the deficiencies actually detected are eliminated as soon as possible from the one hand and on the other hand, that the state and its bodies become appropriate bodies by which all other public income users and not only those, in fact, all other entities participating in financial... Yes, how to do and what to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another reason why this report should be accepted is that it actually shows very clearly that there is significant progress in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the behaviour of the ministries, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, other beneficiaries of budgetary resources on the one hand. And on the other hand, it warns of one very serious issue that the same, if we may say so, are errors and failures that are not actually related to political decision-making and public administration, but rather to the methodology and way of working and applying the existing system. And this warns that very seriously, very clearly, should be reconsidered within, of course, existing opportunities to help educate people who work on these means. I argue that from all these examples found by the State Audit, it is easy to see, in fact, that many of these failures are not the result of intent, but not even harsh negligence, but simply a little bit of ignorance, intricacies, incompetence on one side. And in this respect, it warns of another fact that we had too short a deadline when we passed the new Law on the State Budget, the new Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and started with a new methodology related to the entry into force of the law and the start of its application. In addition, the best example shows itself, for example, that it is up to the state ministries and beneficiaries of state budgets to submit a report on the achievement of these, by the end of 1 month or by the end of January, and before they had until the end of February, which is simply not realistic and quite right, for the first time since the legislative change took place. The State Audit also warns and gives the opinion that the provision should be reconsidered and that it should possibly be extended again by the end of February. In this context, it is particularly commendable to all these reports, which the State Review for the first time, except that it audits and determines failures and failures, actually gives an opinion and suggestions on what should be done not to repeat it, on the one hand. On the other hand, it warns and not only the failures of those who apply the rules but also of the legislator when it is seen how each regulation applies. Whether this regulation is actually functional or not and whether it should carry out a certain correction, etc. The third group of questions is what you're actually looking at missouts and that's commendable. This requires very serious consideration by both legislative and executive authorities, so if you want some of the judicial authorities. In fact, the same findings are repeated, one of them belongs to a group of issues related to the registration of the administration or the use of state-owned assets and which is at the disposal of the State. It is once again warned that we actually have no real record of this issue. How we will ensure the quality of investment investment in the Republic of Croatia and especially any investment when even the state does not know what it has, what it owns, what it benefits, etc. Therefore, here I believe that it should really be taken... in this respect, in particular, I support the proposed conclusion of the SDP Club to make a report and inform the Parliament in the short term on the state of the state of property, and then, of course, to take the necessary actions and all those measures that the law allows and allows and requires that practical property be recorded to know what it is available with. The second group of issues that also draws attention to positive shifts is actually issues about the functioning of the legal system. We now have a counterfact that concerns legislative and executive authorities. Often when the executive government is represented by the Government, it proposes a bill to the Parliament to leave a part of the room for it to try to regulate, regulations, implementing regulations, etc., then pile up a whole series of rules that should be passed in order to make it easier to implement the law, some of these issues could be settled in their own law. But the consequence is that you've accumulated a business executive authority that doesn't have time to do it. One of the more serious objections to this is that some 30, 4, 5 implementing rules have not been adopted, which, of course, if they are not difficult to say that there is no failure to manage state finances, i.e. not only state finances but also other operations related to budgetary resources and the behaviour of certain ministries. The third group of issues is, of course, related to a problem that is very interesting, it is again a question of public competition, and it is obvious that there is no question here whether the tender commissions will be appointed in a quality way when it comes to public procurement. Instead of 5, often 3 are the majority needed to make a decision, etc., but actually it's something else, it's about the unrealisticity and reality of planning and the business management that needs to go. It is too much of a pragmatism to react when the situation requires instead of knowingly managing social flows and social finances so that in time it can plan and call a tender, or in that part, reform and commissions that will implement it and process it all. And this warns of a serious situation, that at a time when budget spending and behaviour on certain items were audited, in fact, the Republic of Croatia was in a very difficult economic social situation in which it had to sometimes reach for pragmatic solutions at some point to put out the fire that appeared at certain points, and that is correct. But on the other hand, the question arises whether it is acceptable and acceptable to behave, as a behavioral methodology, is not, and that state review is quite correct and the question is now what we are going to do to in the future, not entirely, never completely avoid such things but can be brought into normal under the conditions of tolerance of behaviour. The fifth group is of course related to certain failures, again which are related to ad hoc decisions, when it happens that in fact an unauthorized body must decide in a certain way because it is responsible for implementing the regulations, and at the same time there is no time to wait for the competent authority to decide, the best illustration is the case of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, where the Minister of Finance has brought several permits, gave permission to be able to behave in a certain way which... failure and at the same time did not have time to wait for the Government and now became... which thing to apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Waiting for the government's decision so have more damage or decide to make a conscious little failure with that practically that... The government is also aware of such a decision without avoiding greater damage to the social community, or the state, etc., the beneficiary... of the funds. From all these conclusions it is quite clear... in fact to support these Reports, to accept the observed comments of the suggestion, and in particular in those cases where it is unsatisfactory decisions, and in these failures where in 45 it seems to me a conditional opinion, etc., we should actually see what to do and in this context is not just a matter of education, it is shown that we are once too fast laws, and the time that warns us that we will have to make these laws even faster in order to comply with the European Union, etc., therefore we will have to have more room for education and for the preparation of people who will have to implement these laws in part, in this respect there is no need to ignore the fact that praises should be made from this report and which slowly opens a different role in general state audit, and this is an educational role through these positive opinions or any other opinion which the state audit gives to audit of a particular subject to the law of the State. This is why I repeat the proposed Reports personally and, of course, my Club and vote for them, on the one hand, and on the other hand, support the conclusions of the SDP Club, which are going in a direction to further strengthen the role of state audit in strengthening the financial and rule of law in the Republic of Croatia in this segment and in state and social action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36557	Thank you very much. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36558	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Madam State Auditors and Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The State Audit Office as we heard it carried out a complete audit of the spending of public funds and all entities at local and state level in 2003 during the conduct of the former government. As this Report is a very complex and extensive matter, I will look back at one area of the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration and the Tax Administration in this exhibition. The Ministry of Finance, Customs and Tax Administration should be a role model in the way in which business conduct is objective and true, but this ministry also saw a number of irregularities, illegalities and failures in the performance of business during 2003 and the situation at the end of the year. It must not happen, for example, to one Ministry of Finance, or Customs Authority, that the list of assets from 213 border crossings, 171 border crossings is not covered, so that is 80% of the border crossings. The property of these border crossings amounts to 268 million kuna. The list of claims and obligations in the Ministry is also not complete and consistent with other records. For example, in the financial books of the Ministry of Finance, claims for housing loans amount to 2.7 million kuna, and according to data from a business bank that manages the debt and repayment of the 5 million kuna loan. This means that only 51.4% of claims for these purposes have been recorded in the Ministry. Is it not logical to suspect that someone has been erased or forgiven from over 2 million kunas of funds? The list of assets and obligations of the customs administration was not complete because the list did not cover claims for customs duties and customs duties of a billion and 300 million kuna, 120 million kuna of which are related to claims of more than 365 days and 1.2 billion kuna of outstanding claims. The census also does not cover funds in the deposit accounts of customs offices other than Pula customs offices where at the end of 2003 there were 6 million kunas. In a number of irregularities in the Ministry in 2003, it is difficult to understand how it was possible to adopt a Regulation on the granting of authorisation to carry out operations to authorised customs consignors and authorised agents which did not comply with the provisions of the Law on the conditions for carrying out representation operations in the customs procedure adopted in 2001. In this respect, the provisions of the Regulation must be clear and unequivocal, and that would not have been the case if the approvals of the Director of the Customs Administration were in conflict with the Law or the Regulation. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, each state body is obliged to adopt a professional training programme for its officials and subsistence staff. And the finance minister made a decision to refer 48 employees to a postgraduate study even though the 2003 training programme was not adopted. In 2003 alone, 692 thousand 991 kuna were paid for these legally unfounded shops and total tuition amounts to a billion, 1.8 million kuna. Of course the difference was paid in 2004. In the field of expenditure, some expenditures have been made in the smaller and some in the larger amounts than planned. If we know that, according to the principle of budgetary financing, expenditure can only be carried out up to the planned amount and for the purposes planned by the budget, then these are irregularities in business. The ministry had to know that, and that's what they had to do. In particular, since the process of re-use of funds has been established and thus should have been. In the case of the acquisition of property, office materials and the provision of services for the needs of the ministry, public procurement regulations were not fully respected with a view to rational and thrifty management of budgetary resources. And in the end, as the crown of everything, there was no supervision of financial operations in the tax administration. It is unacceptable to see so many failures and irregularities in the business of such an important and key ministry during 2003. The question of responsibility is raised, the issue of expertise and awareness of such responsible jobs is raised. Finally, the issue of damage and loss of the state as a whole remains. It is incomprehensible that the SDP Representatives' Club makes a proposal to the government of Prime Minister Sanader to adopt a plan of long-term and short-term measures to address irregularities created at the time of the SDP coalition's behaviour. Finally, the report can support, but it remains a bitter taste of ease and illegal spending of the State budget for 2003 as well as of extra budget funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36559	Thank you very much. Replica is a respected representative of Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36560	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms Majarić resents Majdenic resents the decision being made to fund 48 young people and send them to a postgraduate study. [[Intruder: Majdenić.]] Unfortunately, professional training, advancement, quality and the ability of people employed in the state administration, especially in the area of finance, really require more complex training programmes than there were, including postgraduate studies. These people simply in the administration don't have enough opportunities to advance professionally. And actually the quality of people who work in the administration is weak because there's a negative selection, which is what those who are more quality in time and very quickly the state administration leave. We know what the salaries are like in the state administration. How will you get a young man in the state administration with a minimum salary that is much lower than in the economy if it does not enable him to make professional progress at the same time and send him to a postgraduate study because more education will work better for his country. It's the first note I wanted to respond to. Second, these irregularities and problems of the treasury are often mentioned here, etc. Look, Mrs. Auditor here initially said that the state treasure had started, or started more seriously in 2001, and she had made progress year after year. The truth with the problems they've been having at the same time... We've still got them. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We obviously... We must make further efforts in this area in all sectors to work. [[Specially enabled.]] But at this point, it seems more important to me that the processes and trends in the whole area are positive, so we hope that this will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36561	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36562	I don't mind going to professional training. I only have against the adoption of a professional training programme according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think one of the finance departments has to respect the decisions. If there is no decision of the Croatian government, then you cannot. On the other hand, it has to be said that millions and 800,000 kunas have been spent for this. 692 thousand were paid in 2003. So the rest had to be paid in 2004. So let's move to second term. Speaking of state audit findings, then it should be said that it is truly amazing that according to the State Audit Order, foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign currency, individual long-term and short-term loans, there are no complete data on the assets and it is impossible to conduct one policy, an economic policy of a country that not all of these data are known. And it really doesn't surprise me that given the large number of irregularities in 2003, debt increased by an additional $8.2 billion in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36563	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear gentlemen. I join all those who have praised this report and praised the revision because it is obvious that and the effects of the work are visible in the improvement and work of the services that are both covered by this revision. So I join all those who will accept this report, and in the shortest case, I will only talk about one segment. In fact, of all these subjects, three entities have received unfavourable opinion and one of these is the State Hydrometerology Institute. During the past period and here in the assembly there has been a heated debate over the need of a whole system of defence against fighting, namely the implementation of the Law on Defence against Fight, which is unfortunately missing and with the will only the directorship of the State Hydrometerology Institute, that is, Dr. Branko Gele. In this report is a series of elements that talk about conscious obstruction, and I will try to bring out the following in the shortest possible way. In the previous review report for 2001 and 2002, almost the same irregularities were identified and could be said to be almost a true copy in 2003. And, unfortunately, the exact same condition is evident to be maintained in this year 2004. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Law on the Fight Defence System for the period 2001 to 2004 from a total of 62 million kunas granted to defend against the fight was not purposefully spent as much as 17 million kunas after the year 2001. 2.7 million kuna, 2002. 4.1 million kuna, 2003. 2.5 million kuna and 2004. 7.7 million kuna. Most often, these funds are used for intellectual services, i.e. other activities which were not planned by plan and programme, and particularly by financial documents. As I come from the Brod-Posavina County of Slavonia, which, along with other parts of Croatia, suffered huge damages due to the fight, due to the lack of a system of defence against the fighting, the representative bodies demanded and proposed to the Government to literally and consistently implement the Law on Defence against Fights in order to minimise the negative effects of the turkish clouds. But apparently no positive shifts have occurred, and they are evident even now. Not only was it not planned to implement the defence system against the fight, but I dared to base these documents and claim that it was a planned and targeted obstruction because it is in no way different to conclude if it was known that in 2002 and 2003 it was planned to acquire 4,000 rockets for each year, and it happened in 2002 that despite the fact that only 2,000 missiles were purchased, and in 2003 the rest, so 2,000 again. In other words, she skipped out for a year. In one year, to put it that way, he concluded the contract in one year. If we add to that the time of the contract is done then, which is obviously in the big rest, then this picture is where and where clearer. Simply from this report, there is awareness of obstruction and lack of and rule of law, but also of the rule of law. Unfortunately, neither the competent ministries have taken, and I dare say, nor are they taking concrete measures to stop this kind of behavior. Even more so, Mr. Gello, on his own request, was relieved of his duty, and I believe that this should have been the opposite, that it should have been done in accordance with some of the other services that my colleague Stazic spoke of before me. Let me get this straight. I want to believe that in the report that we will have a completely different picture by the year, and that this institution will start acting in accordance with the positive legal regulations and what we all conclude here together, and in particular that the Government will actually control law enforcement and, on the other hand, sanction all those who knowingly violate it. I want to be commended to believe that even the number of those who will be on this larger scale by the year will be where and where higher, higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36565	Thank you very much. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36566	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the State Audit Office, colleagues and colleagues. So here I will look back from this extensive material to the Ministry of Health, because I am in health care, in fact, my entire working life and I think I have enough insight into the work of the Ministry of Health and the former and current minister and before him as well as into the functioning of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Of course, the Ministry of Health, and now here is the social care management of a resort that is extremely complex and sensitive and no minister will be easy, but I would still point out some of the items that the State Audit Office stated in its report. So I'd say that the expenditure on work contracts at the Ministry of Health was 2 million and 249 thousand and that they were concluded with 46 people and that some jobs meant work for jobs that were in the regular operation of the Ministry of Health, which I don't want to say that in the Ministry of Health employees don't even work consciously, that they don't work consciously or that they don't work enough, but I've often witnessed that they're really burdensome in their work, but I don't think they're allowed to make contracts for such jobs. Then on information. We have been talking about information in health for several years, and it has been said in the media lately, and we certainly need the information to make the system more efficient and more efficient. But we need to make such a system again that will be both just and effective, because we see here that the question of procurement is being asked, who gets this information equipment and who doesn't. So here's the health system information project is estimated to be between 375 million and 475 million kuna, which is definitely big money. However, what is important is that, in its indication, the audit states that the launch of the project was not sufficiently elaborated and was launched before the basic conditions for implementation were obtained, and no decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was made which suggests that it is contrary to Article 37. Budget law. Although it was neither sufficiently elaborated nor prepared and the basic conditions had not been met, the contracts for equipment and services amounting to HRK 83 million were concluded, which is certainly the same large amount of money. I witnessed it myself at the end of 2003 when I was at the Ministry of Health because we had one project financed from the state budget. All the money was withdrawn from that information item so that we too had to pay for the construction of some 340 thousand kunas from our own resources, so I know how the project took place. Then it is also mentioned that there was no consistency between the construction and the acquisition of medical equipment, so the medical equipment used to stand in the basements or where it was, and we know what it means for medical equipment, and also that we do not say that its value falls every day, but also that better solutions are found. The report then says that the Ministry of Health has concluded with the counties and health institutions 18 agreements on co-financing of billions and 521 million from the state budget of 624 million not to read these other figures, yet no agreement has been obtained between the government. In addition, commitments were also made to invest in general hospitals which were not situated in areas of special state concern. We almost had a bill here to actually change the Health Protection Act this Article 8 that all general hospitals are financed from the state budget, which is good that we did not accept because I think it would be centralised again and that this funding from decentralised funds is far more effective and meaningful. But of course these decentralised funds should be more, but they should be deployed even more fairly, so I would just give the information that, say, Koprivnica-Kryzevci County per capita has 124 thousand and gets 11 million and 794 kuna. Istarska, here we are often our colleague Cain points out that the hospital has a budget of 220 million, and the county of 200 can't finance it. So normally that the county does not finance the hospital in this way because the hospital is financed from the contract with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, and we saw that these tranches that are still being provided were increased for each hospital and several million kunas per month. So this Istrian county gets 89 kuna per capita, and we know its gross social product until we say Vukovar-Srijemska 78. And I think that these are irregularities that we need to correct in the next deployment of decentralised funds, and then those funds will certainly, every health institution and county will know best to deploy. But what's certainly interesting is that the World Bank's loan is $29 million, and I've been tracking the whole thing myself, health care system projects normally as one participant in it and as the director of health care facilities, and it's due to end in 2003. It is not realised according to the planned stock, dynamics, and only 39.9% of the funds have been spent and I ask you of that 11 million dollars for advisory services. Something went to remove pharmaceutical waste and medical equipment. And here, it literally says that the agreements on advisory services were concluded for certain jobs that had to be done before the loan contract was concluded and for the services of recording the situation in Croatian hospitals and health homes, the services of conducting different surveys, research, the recording of equipment at General Hospital Koprivnica and other institutions. I mean, really, to spend everything on 11 million dollars, or almost 39% of those funds, that it's really inadmissible. It would also point out that the claim made by the Ministry of Health had a claim of 879 million from 4 companies and that 3 of these were for the performance of the works because they did not comply with the contractual obligations. I don't understand how these, such debts occurred, given that we know about all these construction, craftsmanships to be paid by the situation, by the temporary calculations, and later by the final reckoning. And so, obviously, something was paid without it. And some of the funds are also required of, which are paid, and not delivered vehicles. It means it was paid in advance, which is the same in our situations as it is inadmissible. Then it is mentioned here that the project is also "Live Healthy" that TV videos of 161 thousand kuna and videos are both recorded and paid, but are not shown on TV, which is certainly a pity. Not only because of these 161 thousand kunas, but because they were to receive results, to learn how to live healthyly what we really need. And in the end, she would say that in the last three months, the former government has concluded contracts for a billion and 400 million kuna, and without, you could say, automatically, without strategy and without, and without insurance. I think it's an obvious indicator that you can't work, that so many debts and so many obligations are created for some future governments that then need a mandate and maybe a mandate and a half to actually meet the obligations that some of the previous governments have created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36567	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36568	Thank you, Mr. President. Like most of my predecessors, I agree with the already stated view that this is actually a report on the revision of state institutions, the state bodies should be divided into several sessions so that we can explain our views more in detail and in order to get to know the Croatian public more in detail, in fact what happens to the spending of taxpayers' funds. Because such extensive material is really very difficult to process in one session, especially in one day. But here, we're going to try to point out those irregularities that have been repeated frequently and shown in most ministries as irregularities. In fact, what does this State Audit Office report tell us, and what should the Croatian public actually be interested in? Well, first of all, the way they were then, because it's 2003, the way the officials at the time treated those funds, the resources of our citizens, and the way they spent the funds, which were foreseen by the State budget. Generally, we can say that it has been warned of a lot of failures and I will point out those specific examples so let me single out. In particular, no costs were recorded in 2003 and their transfer in 2004, which is why the government of the Republic of Croatia, the new Government, which came in 2004, was not shown in real size at the end of 2003 when it assumed its mandate. In particular, the rebalancing of the Croatian highway's financial plan planned a significant increase in deficits by a billion and 556 million 325 thousand kuna that was transferred in 2004. The Croatian Parliament did not agree on this rebalancing nor was it included in the consolidated revenue and expenditure plan of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, which is not in line with the provisions of the Budget Act. So this is about disrespecting the law and disrespecting the procedure. Namely, the Croatian Parliament was supposed to be the one to give consent to such rebalancing, but he simply did not do so. So it's out of the law, outside of the Budget Act. Expenses and expenditure related to projects of individual ministries financed from loans from international financial institutions and organisations from special foreign exchange accounts not related to the single system of the State Treasury are also not recorded in the National Budget Master's Book. For example, expenditure on the project of modernisation and restructuring of railways amounting to €62 million and more, expenditure on the project, the same project by... for 37 additional million kunas, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not a subordinate obligation to the Holy chair, part of the obligation to the Holy chair is also not settled for this period until 2003. Also, according to the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2003, the annual value of new financial guarantees, this is extremely important, was estimated at 5 billion and 900 thousand kuna, and 9 billion kuna of new financial guarantees were issued, which is 3 billion kuna or 52.6% more than the fixed amount. It was therefore noted that most of the guarantees issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 did not meet the criteria set out in the Decision on criteria for granting state guarantees. Therefore, state guarantees were given to those who did not meet the Decision on the criteria for the granting of these guarantees by the same government. Thus, the government did not then adhere to those documents that it itself had brought and obliged itself to act on them. What do you say next? I'm going to say the concrete examples I've drawn from this material that although in smaller amounts than mentioned, it's not about billions, it's about hundreds of thousands and millions of kunas that are also very significant and point out in fact the way that has been done in certain ministries or other state institutions. For example, the Ministry of Finance spent 53% more funding in 2003 than the planned amounts for official roads. And that amount is specifically 627 thousand kuna. How is it possible that one finance ministry isn't planning so much, so much to fail in the plan, or to execute 53% more than the planned amount. I say, the amount is also very significant. Or, say, something that seemed very interesting to me especially for our public. The same Ministry, for example, has paid 30 to 76% more than the Customs Administration, which is also in its composition and vice versa. The Customs Administration paid, say, toners of suppliers that are state-owned at a price of 12 to 48% higher than the price paid by the same Ministry. So, in the same ministry, there are such irregularities in the same system that someone pays 76% more for some services than the other part of that same ministry, it's almost incredibly almost for Guiness's book seems interesting to me. Tax administration, selection of contractors and services has not been implemented in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. In general, we can say that almost most of the ministries and state institutions did not comply with the provisions of this Public Procurement Act and that I agree with all those who point to this very fact and that there is actually a rabbit in that bush. In particular, for the provider of information equipment maintenance services in the tax administration carried out in the value of 2 million 843 thousand kuna, a bidder has been selected who has not supplied a certificate from the manufacturer with the authorisation to maintain that same administration. Therefore, an offerer who does not have any authority from the manufacturer of that equipment to maintain such equipment. The price was 770,000 higher than other bidders who were not chosen just because they also did not provide that requested certificate, which is logic, what kind of behavior. So those who didn't have that same certificate were rejected and the one who also didn't have his price was higher by 770 thousand kuna, was elected, beyond all laws, past all rules, very interesting. Or another example from the same tax administration in 2003 selected contractors edits the business building I think in Vukovar agreed values for 17 million kuna had two employees of the construction profession. Therefore, for the 17 million kuna business, there are two employees of the construction profession and according to the conditions of the competition should have at least 20 employees from the construction profession. So there are 10 times fewer employees according to the terms of the competition but regardless, he gets a 17 million kuna job. Or the same office furniture worth 3 million and 850 thousand kuna was obtained from suppliers selected for the addition of existing furniture that did not offer the supply of furniture at the lowest price at the tender, and from suppliers who offered the delivery at the lowest price was purchased furniture of 250 thousand kuna. So the one who offered the lowest price for the purchase of furniture got a job worth 250,000 kuna, and someone who didn't add that same furniture got a job worth 3 million and 850 thousand kuna. I think it's quite clear that behind this there are some actions that the competent bodies to which this material should be forwarded should actually determine what it is specifically about. Let's move forward, with examples concrete, so that there is no correction of incorrect allegations because these are the exact statements from the State Audit Report. In 2003, the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction agreed on several works and services worth around one billion kuna, which was not provided with incentives in the budget of 325 million kuna, and neither was the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia provided, should this be noted that it was past all laws, of course, beyond all laws, beyond what should be done. In the procurement process of the Public Procurement and Air Conditioning Act of 574 thousand kuna, the defence ministry failed to comply with the public procurement law. The Ministry of Health for Labour Contracts in 2003 allocates an amount of Circ. 2 million 250 thousand kuna, and concludes contracts with 46 people to perform regular tasks of the Ministry. So in 2003, Mr Andro Vlahusic didn't think he had been called, he didn't think that Ministry employees could carry out their regular activity simply 2 million and 250 thousand kunas gave some other people contracts with 46 different persons, for jobs that the Ministry or its employees should carry out. The same Ministry without the consent of the Government in 2003 concluded contracts amounting to HRK 350 million for which salaries are due from 2004 to 2008 for one part, for €71 million and for €223 million in the period 2005 to 2021, so it should be noted that this is again contrary to the law, contrary to the legal provisions without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the ministers of the then government acted. Let's move on with the examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36569	We can't go any further. Replica is a respected representative of Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36570	Dear President, for the thousandth time, it was stated that a major deficit was transferred in 2004, i.e. in 2003, higher deficits and debts were achieved. At the same time, for a thousandth time, it should be said that this deficit, which was later shown as 6.3 by a different methodology, would at least be correct and this is a methodology called Modified... aproach which was applied at the end of 2003, so the deficit was calculated 6.3 because it was a new definition because it entered into the deficit which previously did not enter etc., but at the same time it should be said to Mr Matusic and next, that we were dividends from 2003, and 2 public companies that were intended for software electronic engineering and other industries from companies with which the projects existed as... and others, included in the budget that we could, so that the deficit in 2003 would not be silent, according to that methodology of the software electronic engineering industry and other industries, but at the same time you could not withdraw 2004, so the deficit in 2004, because of which we could not have been able to accept it because of the first year. Therefore, I ask you nicely when talking about transfers, obligations etc., to take care of all facts is otherwise spoken wrong, as Mrs Majdenic said wrongly, that due to the problems observed by the audit, the government debt has increased 8 billion. Which is why it's increased even more this year than it's ever been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36571	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36572	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear to me that a colleague of the Church wishes to relativise the illegal conduct of former officials, i.e. members, colleagues in the former government, this is quite clear and understandable, but what I was saying was the fact written in a state audit report and you cannot deny the fact that the Croatian highways passed by the Croatian Parliament, so beyond all laws, have made a decision beyond all standards of conduct on a new debt for a billion and 500 million kuna, which was transferred to the burden in 2004, I spoke of it. Thus, it is clear that such behavior is inadmissible and illegal, which is the most important of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36573	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36574	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Madam State Auditors allow me to warmly welcome you and congratulate you on the quality audit carried out and on the prepared summary of the report which is also very quality. In my presentation, I would refer to the State Audit report on the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction's operations in 2003. I must say that at the moment I decided to prepare this exhibition in some way I thought I would have an easy job because the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction has all the preconditions for one quality business of the ministry. However, when I read the State Audit report, I actually came to the conclusion that there was a general mess and chaos in the realization of the ministry's work and programme during 2003. Almost most of the programmes are not implemented in accordance with the state budget, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, the Public Procurement Act and other our positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia. And the State Audit also pointed to unintended spending of funds. I'd only point out some of the State Audit Office's findings. Here's why I just said these words in my business assessment to the Ministry of Public Works in 2003. It is not disputed that 35.6% higher and 44.3% expenditures were achieved, a controversial and inadmissible way in which they were realised or realised. Work cannot be negotiated on the budget of next year, i.e. creating commitments to another government and some other ministers who will come behind the minister who runs the ministry in the current year. And that just happened. Other unpaid works amounting to 89 million kuna have been agreed, and for me, this is a hidden, hidden investment in the reconstruction of houses in 36 million kuna, which is not covered by the budget or by the financial accounting for the current year. The State Audit Office further pointed to a very important fact which is that no financial, financial business control of the ministry has been carried out in that ministry. It's not enough to get these jobs done just by internal surveillance. These tasks should also be carried out by independent quality institutions on the part of the realisation of the Ministry’s business that is not the task of our State Audit to carry out them. I'll back that up with the following facts. How it can happen that those who received advances to perform the work a few years ago that the ministry does not chase them through court. Well, our country will suffer serious financial damage for that. These gentlemen, if they are and have failed owners of these companies, they have those assets and the state can settle down from their assets in accordance with our laws. Or, for example, in the implementation of the Regional Development Programme, 62 million kuna was spent. The Ministry allocated these funds without any criteria. When the programme is taken and an investment programme is taken into the municipal infrastructure of 44 million kuna. It is then seen that over 80% of the funds were invested in the city of Varazdin, Međimurska and Krapina-Zagorje County, which is a game of the case coincided with the election unit of the minister who served as minister of the ministry. What about the other parts? 5.3 million kuna invested in a development project in the city of Zagreb. Nevertheless, here is the State Audit that established the unintended investment, unintended investment in development in the city of Zagreb. And what is not development in Vukovar, Knin, in any other part of the Republic of Croatia. About taking care of the victims of the Homeland War. The ministry did not invest at all in the construction of works in 2003. Even the locations that were for this were prepared in Metkovic and in Vinodolski had been redesigned for the construction of POS and construction in Makarska and Trilj was completely suspended. Please, a thousand 935 built apartments in recent years have not been put into operation and have not been taken over for unskilled works. And not only are they not taking over but every day they have to pay the cost of keeping and for keeping it in 2003 864 thousand kunas were paid. Please, it's 5 apartments, 5 apartments, 5 victims could get a family home or an apartment. It's not a small cost like this, like a couple hundred kunas. The best example of the work is the realization of the building of 128 apartments in Slavonski Brod where the deadline was 8 months in 2003. 98 apartments were completed in December 2004 and 38 apartments were not completed until today because of errors in designing and performing. I think these are inadmissible things and no one could play with such actions. Further allow me to look at the implementation of the project of stimulating housing. An excellent project that was supposed to resolve issues, citizens' housing issues in a far easier way than buying apartments on the market has actually turned into a project to encourage the construction of these apartments for businesses and entrepreneurs, so, besides budgets, some 3 and a half thousand apartments in 2003 have been contracted for, for which no land has been settled, no building permit, nothing. Through those 127 contracts one big part, the number of contracts concluded with Coning. Even though I'm still allowed some more time. As pointed out by the State audit, unintended use and irrational use of funds and investments. The Spanish residential building has not been completed and 16 million kunas have been paid more than in the initial contract. The School of Agriculture in Osijek increased 60% of its construction costs from the basic contract of 11 million. The project of rescheduling the military station in Zagreb, which was suspended 4 million. Propaganda highway Zagreb-Split. Please, propaganda. The Ministry of Television pays for propaganda, printing books for POS etc. 3 million and 700,000 kuna. The building of a rulebook for these apartments POS a billion and 300 million. Twice built-in, studies, books, populations, etc. So I haven't had time and I'm going to finish Mr. Vice President, talk about the implementation of these POS programmes on the Public Procurement Act. There's only one thing I can say is that there's not, there's almost not one procedure that I can make in accordance with that law. I suggest we adopt the State Audit report, and on the business of this ministry, I think some other competent authorities should say their last word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36575	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Shimac said this report indicates that there was no respect for the Law on Budget Implementation and the Public Procurement Act, but I would add that neither the recommendations nor the State Audit were respected. Why? Because in this 2003 report, in the specific case of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" it is clear that the 2002 report on the audit carried out has already shown that the state should not issue guarantees to the Shipyard "Vicor Lenac" which is mostly owned by foreign banks because it has no impact on its work and business, business decisions of management, beaches and other things. Let's just remind ourselves of the salary they were then directors of 125 thousand kunas, etc. etc. So the State Audit has already recommended, in the 2002 report, that is, the opinion that no guarantee should be given to the Shipyard "Viktor Lineca". But in 2003 it was repeated again, also after a friendly relationship, again a guarantee was issued, again the loans that the state is returning today, etc. Therefore, they did not respect the recommendations or opinions of the State Audit. The opinion was also expressed regarding the Ministry of Public Works, which concerned regional development, the regional development project and was said to have spent 5 million and 300 thousand kuna on the financing project in the City of Zagreb. I think that no one is against it and that development projects are funded in the City of Zagreb. However, what is the problem in particular? The problem is that these same project proposals were not submitted by the City of Zagreb. That's the problem. It's the key, it's the essence of things. You should call things your name. Projects that were nominated on behalf of the City of Zagreb, in fact by some foreign people from the party of the Minister of then-Cacic HNS, because he clearly says about projects financed in the City of Zagreb in the amount of 5 million and 300 thousand kuna, the City of Zagreb did not deliver proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36577	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36578	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I would actually like to add to this replica of Mr. Matusic. It was not only for this programme of 5 thousand, 5 million and 300 thousand, but in the City of Zagreb a municipal infrastructure for building POS facilities was arranged on the burden of the ministry. Secondly, in the sale of apartments built by POS, the purchasers of apartments, so to those of our citizens who had a hard time buying an apartment, the sale of uncomfortable large apartments, expensive apartments with garages, garages, and still charged them with part of the cost of building that business space that someone else bought, or came through some arrangement instead. So, let me finish it, Mr. President. The whole job was organised by the ministry instead of the real estate law agency. That is, such a procedure to transfer transactions from the agency to the ministry is not known in our legal practice or in the functioning of the ministry. The ministry could either fill in the agency or simply change its internal structure, but it was done because there was no control over the implementation of the project. Because the agency has a board of directors, and the ministry has no administrative council, but the Prime Minister who, of course, doesn't have time to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36579	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Alenka's incorrect quote of Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I won't have enough time to correct a series of incorrect allegations, but let's start from the first. The first inaccuracies are tied to the military. As for the military and 4 million kunas spent, I must tell you that it was done precisely in order to resolve the shortcomings and costs made by the previous government on the military Kuniscak. Secondly, as far as this project is concerned, in particular the four million were spent on establishing a new funding system to settle these former costs. It was also because we felt that it was opportunized to give the new minister the opportunity to arbitration on its own and repeat the competition, we hoped that he would not return the property to the City of Zagreb without setting those costs that he was supposed to settle. Second, the property in Spain and 16 million. I'd say that even today you haven't been able to solve these years and a half and move those defenders into those 160 apartments. As for the 16 million, I have to say that this is the object that I inherited from the previous government, which was in very bad shape, which was badly hit, which was poorly funded where the company failed precisely because the previous minister and former ministry had badly hit the job. And it's not the only case, it's one of a series of cases we inherited. A series of companies got jobs...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36581	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Krešimir Cosic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36582	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The report on the financial reports and operations carried out by the Ministry of Defence for 2003 is very interesting for a number of reasons. At times, reports of business at the Ministry of Defence were the top theme of all Croatian media "Globus", "National" and all others who were willing to read sensations, but also of all those who were willing to generate sensations even where they were not there. And we expected that, in recent years, there was mostly a lot of silence when it came to the Ministry of Defence's report on the financial report and business, that much has changed for the better, but unfortunately these reports, this 2003 report of yours, as well as the 2002 report, showed that a lot of things haven't really changed for the better, although a fictitious media perception is being created that almost today in the Ministry of Defence everything is ideal, or 2003. The objectives of the review were very clear. I will stress only one of these objectives, examine the application of legal and other regulations relating to organisational and financial accounting operations and your short response and diagnosis, read it. The following warrants have not been executed. The procurement procedures have not been implemented in accordance with the procurement rules. I'm just one of the diagnostics here, especially I want to point out. But in the introduction of your report, you concluded that unfortunately and the audit findings for 2002 were in certain elements such that they referred to inadmissible work at the Ministry of Defence when it came to financial operations. But keep going, though. The audit for 2003 found that only a small number of cases have acted on the findings of the State Audit Office. So, shortcomings in 2002, shortcomings in 2003, it's not weird, I would say, conclude and find it hard to conclude that such irregularities were in 2001, 2000, and unfortunately these are elements that characterize reality. There's been a little bit of that, but I think this is an opportunity for some things to be publicly and clearly pointed out. That's why I'm going to quote some parts of your report. "In a number of cases, the procurement procedures prescribed by the Public Procurement Act and the Regulation on the procurement of goods, works and services of small value have not been applied. This was found in the purchase of office material worth 453 thousand kuna, I would like to stress in particular that "these funds for general hygiene amounting to 2 million 480 thousand kuna. The funds for general hygiene," says your Report, were obtained from suppliers on the basis of contracts concluded in the previous period and by one part direct contract." Please, the General Hygiene funds were purchased in part by direct contract, article 6, as if they were rockets, planes, weapons and other military equipment. Well, that's really funny. However, that part of the equipment such as materials and parts for light remont of non-colored vehicles amounting to 5 million kunas and a small inventory and technically supplied professions amounting to millions and 590 thousand kunas was obtained by individual orders from more than a number of suppliers without the delivery procedure implemented by the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, for the maintenance services of office computer equipment carried out in the amount of 7 million 260 thousand kuna, no public competition has been carried out, etc. It's just a diagnosis of a condition that is unfortunately not acceptable. I'm going to highlight some other cases that are a little bit known and a little bit written about, even in your report because those elements that I want to especially highlight point to a state that is inadmissible and the contribution are a more complete understanding of the problems that we are all together with, I would say, faced. We've all read about the MiG plane remont, but we haven't heard what really happened after these affairs, what the State's Attorney's office did, who's to blame. Because many responsible, serious people who lectured and lectured many were unfortunately involved in such activities. I will concentrate on only part of the purchase that brings it to communication, telecommunications equipment and a series of contracts that are concluded with Ericsson. Why? You'll see why. In the purchase of Polish inductor phones selected, the supplier was selected by direct contract. There should be nothing strange, but the delivery of the phone was arranged for the period 2003-2005, by 2,000 pieces in 2003, 2004, and a thousand in 2005. The supplier delivered thousands of phones in 2003 due to lack of technical returns. Here's what the climate of these devices looked like that you unfortunately couldn't diagnose in your reports and really suggest that many of the services that are trying professionally and responsibly to do their jobs are under inadmissible kind of political pressure. Because it wouldn't be my interpretation I'm here to quote exclusively the reports of people who spoke within the Ministry during this procurement, asking for transparency, looking for comparative analyses, to make sure that what was obtained is really the best choice. Here, I quote some claims. "In meetings with the presence of assistant M6 and M7 ministers, the contract is required to be signed urgently." You'll see why. "Due to the urgent urgency of the need to sign the contract, it is very fast from the manufacturer Ericsson t.t. a requested offer." All very quickly, it's about Polish phones, military as if it were wartime, as if it were some kind of procurement to be done for security reasons past the procedure in a fast, urgent way, but the reasons were because the time of the election was approaching. The technical holder defined a very short deadline for delivery, and he knew that the production of the phone lasted at least 180 days, which means that virtually no time was left to conduct the regular bargaining process. A number of similar claims have been requested for non-usable products, i.e. they are not technically accepted. The technical holder proposed that the purchase of products not yet technically verified would not have an assessment of technical correctness, i.e. that changes in the upgrade of technical features could be such as to have a final impact on the price. What is most important, it is recommended, it says in this report, products produced by TER Ericsson, and it is stated on the committee that, quote: "Rock phones are cheaper and better". No parallel analysis was made. So it's just one example of one supply that took place in almost strange circumstances. There are a number of other examples, I would like to emphasise again an internal report at the Ministry of Defence, given that some services were amazed by such a procedure and the way the procurement process took place. I quote: "Did you ensure transparency and competitiveness? Did all potential suppliers have the same conditions and opportunity to present their products when selecting producers? Have you run a market analysis?" These are each other's memos that have been dropped inside the Department of Defense. Just one more example, your failure as to the State Audit. When it comes to the acquisition of the telecommunications system, you have stated that 3 offers have arrived for the system. That's not true. There was only one bidder, Ericsson, who gave three different prices. Therefore, all of this suggests that the findings of the State Audits are good, useful, but we very often have to have opportunities and abilities to look below the surface of what we are doing to see where the problems we unfortunately face over the years are coming from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36583	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36584	Dear Mr. Vice President, chief state auditors, colleagues and colleagues. We received the report on the audits carried out and the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004. It is good to have a unique discussion about this and for the sake of time and for the quality of the debate. The State Audit Office was established as an independent professional body of the Croatian Assembly to which it is responsible for its work. In relation to the authorities of the executive and judicial authorities, the Office is completely independent. In fact, when the inherited public sector control mechanisms in the field of public income and expenditure proved to be insufficiently effective in 93 years, the State Audit Act was passed. Within 10 years of a long period of review being subject to all state bodies and organisations and agencies financed from the state budget of local and regional self-government as well as all entities at national or local level and financed entirely or individually by budgets, this was the time when the state office was rapidly established and in the Croatian Parliament always provided extensive reports on the audits and audit findings carried out, at before those entities. These reports are almost uniformly accepted in the Croatian Parliament, often with compliments from representatives for large-scale work that the office has done and where all illegal activities, behaviour and irregularities have been observed. However, already and then it was seen as now that behind the brilliant reports there were no conjectures for law enforcement and lamentations between the Office of the State’s Attorney’s Office of the Fund that should be taken, it was already seen that there was something seriously wrong in the system. Finally, the first major change in office work takes place in 2001, when the opposition then came to power. She promised the people in the elections that all those who took advantage of the conversion, who robbed the Croatian economy, put behind the locks and returned the robbery, so soon after the power was won, decisions were taken by the parliament, the revision of the conversion and privatisation, and then extended powers of the state audit office. The State Office was further organized for additional tasks and as far as it can be seen from the report with the regular work of the users of the budget, and local and regional users carried out a large business of reviewing the conversion and privatisation of nearly 1600 social enterprises since the application of the law of the conversion from May 2001 to 2004. So, reading this report, given that the huge work of the magazine of the conversion and privatisation of companies is actually completed within the planned deadline, it seems fascinating, if we agree that the office is well-organised, that it has had powers and independence in the work, and solid material and technical conditions, professional personnel, cooperation with executive and judicial authority, but did we actually get what the former government promised to the people and the Croatian public that thieves who robbed the state would be behind the locks and robbed back. The question is whether the public and citizens of Croatia can be satisfied with this revision and the consequences of those who have led this transformation is if we can read the report in fact when it comes to companies, then we can say that this value is measured in billions of marks, at the end of the year 91, at the time of the conversion of 1600 companies employed about 650 thousand workers. By the end of the job-free transition, 60% of the workers were left, or nearly 400 thousand people were out of work. Should the comment at all be made on this disaster caused by the conversion question is whether the former government has made a promise by revising the conversion and privatisation, whether it is possible to explain to the public at all that the damage caused by the conversion will not be answered by anyone. We will all be made more clear in one example which is stated in the report, which says, the audit was granted to small shareholders in such a way that the requirements of the request were checked only when the State Audit Office established in the audit procedure the existence of the actions which have criminal characteristics and the relations to the sale of assets, which were included in the value of the companies, and poor business policy, but also the cancellations of workers, the very interesting explanation of the State Office for the revision and I will quote it: in cases where shares were found to have been paid out of the company’s assets before the entry into force of the Privatisation Act, no actions were taken because for those irregularities the law on the conversion of social enterprises had not been prescribed, so there were no criminal provisions. In cases where shares were found to have been paid out of the company’s assets after the entry into force of the Privatisation Act, the Office submitted infringements unless an absolute limitation occurred. Great, actually, no criminal provisions had been prescribed before, and when the Privatisation Act was passed, and he ate a donkey wolf, so nothing at all, the question is how many criminal charges were raised, I'm afraid of none. So, but then the question arises whether we needed a conversion review at all or whether those in charge and paid do so in their regular performance and their job is of course to prevent crime in the economy. The question of all questions, why did the law that allowed the robbery not change but continued to follow the law that exists? I'm afraid that as a society and not only a state office for review but also all other institutions, and even a council of the best, I think that we are simply young and immature and that there is much more to be done to seduce order in this area. In fact, the State Audit Office has no objection they have done a great deal in accordance with the Law and their Rulesman, but the unforgivable truth remains that all the public will be dissatisfied, that we have all spent better time and taxpayers' money without any results. I would therefore support only that part of the report that speaks about future plans, adapting the offices to standards that apply in the European Union, controlling funds from pre-accession funds and their dedicated spending, so as not to repeat these. We're losing sight of how much energy and resources we've spent, and the result, we haven't satisfied the public, nor are they responding to the conversion, so that they're exploited and enriched. So, in the end, I'm going to say, why praise and warnings if there are no consequences for those who robbed Croatia in conversion, something needs to be changed either by laws or by auditors, I think a little bit of both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36585	Thank you very much. We have a replica, first Mrs. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so my colleague Rebic was actually supposed to interrupt you because your debate was closed three months ago, we had a review of the conversion and privatisation three months ago, and today we are discussing the report on the work of the State Audit Office in 2004 and 2003. It's true in everything you've said, so the debate is closed, it's true that we haven't adopted conclusions, and we haven't adopted conclusions because exactly we at the HSS Club agreed with your presentation to suggest conclusions that would oblige the government to figure out how those funds that went the way you're saying how to get back to where they were taken from. So with regret I could replicate a lot more but you've completely missed the topic and this is not the point that's being discussed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36587	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36588	Actually, we always have the same situation. If someone, I don't know, who's the lady to prescribe what I should be saying when it comes to the audit reports. It's on the one hand, and on the other hand it's not a miracle. You're the last time we've had an argument because if we don't all tell you what you want, you think something big's hurt. So that's how the debate stopped and the Antifascism Declaration was stopped because your representative was rising and he wasn't satisfied that we didn't think the same as you. But this conversion and what you promised the people, so that's what we're talking about. So you lost the election because you didn't make a single promise to the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36589	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36590	Well, I'll do the same as my colleague Lalic said in her replica. It is incorrect for us today to discuss the State Audit Office's report on the revision of conversion and privatisation. We are discussing, as is the agenda item, the report on the work of the State Audit Office and the audits carried out for 2003. But I agree that this problem, which Rebic spoke of, is important, so it would be important if the government had not, in its opinion did not reject the conclusions of the HSS and the SDP concerning this problem, because in this way at least part of it would have been sanctioned and, unlike that, only accepts the conclusions of the HDZ Club which, as such formally, only want to implement certain things through the conclusions and not the actual, real sanctions of those who did so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36591	Thank you very much. Please continue the session at 15:30, so please bring the voting keys. So 15:30 with the voting keys. The first is Mr. Jure Bitunjac, then Ms. Ljubica Lalic, then Mr. Jelkovac, etc. Here's to 15 and 30. Thank you. It's 13:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36592	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. First up, Mr. representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the head state auditor, the lady, the respected Mrs. Krasic colleagues and fellow MPs! The State Audit Act, which was adopted in 1993, defined the role of the State Audit Office. In the past 11 years, by going through a phase of organisation and problems that are inevitable, the State Audit Office has become a respectable state institution that is believed to be and whose opinion the public accepts and the competent authorities must consider, process and accordingly act accordingly. Working within established criteria and audit standards is a guarantee that the reports we receive in the Croatian Parliament will be objective, professional and impartial and regardless of political changes in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian government I hope that we will have reports that are drawn up "sons of Ira et studio". So no bias. By working for many years in local self-government, I am familiar with the comments made by the leaders of the units of local self-government, and in the sense that it was at the very beginning of the work of the State Audit Office, and in terms of giving certain qualifications when it comes to certain decisions, investments, and I believe that in this area, such areas as the economic justification or inexcusability of certain procedures, investment procedures, investments and so on, should not be too much dealt with by the State Audit Office. Analyzing and reading this report, I was under the impression that we had two governments in the previous assembly, or until these parliamentary elections. One formally voted and confirmed by the Parliament and another informal in the image of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. The president of the formally elected Croatian government was Mr. Ivica Racan, and these other informal governments in the government are former Minister Cacic. This stems from the fact that the State budget deficit for 2003 is not realistic. Most of it stems from unexplained responsibilities, so the responsibilities without the appropriate decisions are either the Parliament, or the Government. Delegations of larger than planned, which took place in the first row and took place in the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. This Ministry, my personal opinion, was that it was de facto acting autonomously, that it was autonomously making decisions, duties, and that it was in some way, that it was the Ministry in some way as I had already said by the government itself. In that ministry, total income, receipts and planned amounting to a billion 832 million kuna, and 2 billion 485 thousand kunas were achieved. So 35% higher. And when it comes to expenditures and expenditures, they are planned at a billion 832 thousand kuna, and made 2 billion and 645. So the plan was breached by 44.3%. In Croatian highways, a deficit of billions and 556 million was planned, was transferred in 2004, and as we know when we talked about the implementation of the 2003 budget, the decision was de facto confirmed never in the Croatian Parliament, which was the obligation. When it comes to the construction of highways that have also gone over it and within that ministry, it does not stand here in the find, but for those of us working on the ground it is known that certain shares have been given by party membership to certain people who have never done such a job. That companies were quickly formed and I don't think there's a more significant city where prominent individuals, party individuals didn't get certain jobs when it comes to highways. In this ministry as well as in most others when it comes to public procurement, we need to know that it was in some way a practice of violating the Public Procurement Act, and all parliamentary deputies think they got as well as I did and a certain criminal application by the Trade Unions of State and local officials and tenants. I wouldn't want to comment on it because it might be perceived as a kind of pressure on the court. What interests me especially because I come from Dalmatia, Zagora, is the fact that the former government has done in terms of the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, and can be seen in a way directly or indirectly from the findings of the state audit. I'd just mention three, one ministry and two funds. The Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises, the Regional Development Fund and the Development and Employment Fund. It is interesting when it comes to working areas that they were financed in the front row in those areas where certain coalition parties were in power. Here, I'll only mention Virovitica. I'm not familiar with it, but I think it's where he played the important role of the party key. In fact, the million kuna given to the Virovitica work zone were never justified or the Ministry sought to obtain an opinion on the intended spending of these funds or never requested a refund because they were not spent. When it comes to the Regional Development Fund, we also see a particular policy, a party policy that was present. Let us take a concrete Ličko-Senj County which had through the Regional Development Fund and the right to 7 million and 900 thousand kuna. It is granted only 4 million and 100 thousand kuna. On the other hand, Bjelovarska-Bilogorska, so one more developed county had the right to 6 million 240 thousand kuna, and it was granted 10 million kuna. Obviously, this is from one side of the county where HDZ was in power, and on the other side of the county where the coalition government was also at the state level. During 2003, no economic project has unfortunately been financed through this Fund which would in any way lead to a direct increase in employment and development or the development of the region concerned. He would also make my remarks on the receipt of eight employees without a public tender, which is contrary to the Law on civil servants and tenants. The Development and Employment Fund, I did my best, so I tried to reach certain parameters in different ways. I see that here the Dalmatian Zagora was absolutely denied, that for subsidies, a million and 540 thousand kuna were planned for production, and achieved with 7 million and 100. And I tried to find the answer. My answer is that it was pre-election time and that, in some ways, party colleagues and co-workers needed to be given certain funds to make the results for the parliamentary elections as good as possible. In any case, what we can generally say is that there was a violation of the Public Procurement Act. Yes, when it comes to hiring that there were a large number of cases of jobless employment and that exactly everything that happened in 2003, which was pre-election years, was done in a good way for pre-election promotion and for promoting and giving opportunities to their colleagues at the last minute to accomplish something. And when it comes to the State Audit Office itself, I think he's also in charge of this government. I am convinced that the government will be chaired by Dr. Sanader worked differently than it was in 2003 during the coalition government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36594	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36595	I am correcting Mr. Bitunjec's incorrect allegations of how a million kunas are given for a small entrepreneurship zone in the town of Virovitica is not returned because there is a collegiate current opposition power there. On the contrary, it is there in HDZ and has not been returned to the exact period when HDZ was in power. In the meantime, that correction and he got rid of it, so the money's back. However, I am sorry that the money was not purposely spent on developing a small economy zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36596	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's time for Mrs. Ljubica Lalic to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditor. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So I will consider only one segment of the State Audit Office's report, just like my colleague Raven did. And this is the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, in the past term as well as in this I pointed to the independence of the State Hydrometeorological Institute as well as the social inadmissibility of its director's behaviour. Argumented warnings were easily approached by the then Minister of Science and the current Minister Primorac has the same approach. Because of such a privileged public position, it is the impression that it is a golden godmother whom we must all worship instead demand the task that is legally intended for him. This report by the State Office on the audit of the financial reports and operations carried out by the State Hydrometeorological Institute for 2002 and 2003 has been demonstrated by how many warnings have been established. This report is extremely unfavourable, even as more audits believe that there is no reliable basis to confirm entirely without a reserve that the Institute's financial reports provide a true and objective representation of the situation. It is clear that the Institute has not done business transparently there are huge differences between planned and achieved incomes and receipts. Thus, in 200.2 years, the reception was planned at an amount of 52 million kuna and was achieved with 74 million, resulting in a difference of as much as 22 million kuna. In carrying out its own activities, the Institute makes its own revenues, which is part of which it is obliged to pay the State Treasury which it does not, of course, do not. So in 2002, out of the 14 million,6 million he did not pay into the treasury and in 2003 he forgot to pay the million. But that's not all. The travel orders shall be justified by a delay of one year and the list of assets and obligations of the institution shall be incomplete and the assets shall not be marked by inventory numbers. There was no internal surveillance at the Bureau, but he did business in a coffee shop whose business was not regulated by the office's act. Three leading employees did not re-emerge on the market. Instead of taking timely measures to sanction illicit operations, claims are written off from employees among others and those who have conducted the business of the cafe. Without the approval and consent of the Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, only an initial redistribution of the budget was made. For example, only one quarter of was spent on material and ongoing investment maintenance from planned funds. But a total amount of 9 million kuna was withdrawn from the budget. And the difference between six and a half million spent on the cost of intellectual and personal services. It seems incredible but true in the procurement of most cases are not respected public procurement laws. Something has happened to the state in the office that has so far been unmarked in state institutions. The payouts, missile monitors and generator servers are not even accounted for and neither are taxes and contributions paid. For the institution responsible for the operational defence against the fight, it is normal that it does not have the means of defence to plan, and if, in 2002, it achieved revenue of 15 million kuna and in 2003. 13 and a half million kuna. That's an x-ray of responsibility and the credibility of the State hydrometeorological institute. The audit find shall not indicate who has approved such incomplete plans and such financial reports. It shall not be specified where the money which is not paid in the Treasury or where the money is not paid to the monitors of the rackets and generators in the name of the tax and of the contribution. According to the law on the legal operations of the institution from above, its director and if the Slavonian mayors and their county parliaments in the summer of 2003 and the county of northwestern Croatia have requested his discharge by holding him responsible for the failure of operational defence in the fights, the director is firmly held in his chair until the end of 2004, when he was relieved of his duties on his own request. Unlike those who had done business in orderly orderly ways, they were resolved by the authorities of the day. His proposal appointed a VD director who says in his first press release. Gradually, I support the policy of the previous director. At the time, we didn't know whether it was just an operational defense against the fight or the full management of the business policy of the institute. Now we're much clearer because a well-known opportunity at the Bureau says that nothing has changed but irregularities are repeated and we can conclude that on the basis of the 2004 report. In light of this, under the allegations of a responsible and conscientious institution, it is not possible not to wonder, what will happen this year with the operational defense of the fight. Last year's damages are only in one and that's not exactly a large county, over 100 million kunas are recorded. It's a direct damage and no one even partially compensated her only the government was alone the government was in doubt what to do. First, she found that the defence would not be conducted, and then in the half-tour season, she changed her mind and decided that it would be conducted. The damage at the time was huge. The defense system against the fight was unprepared, an insufficient number of missiles had expired. The consequences of all this confusion and confusion of course they felt our citizens. In November 2004, the government adopted an operational defence plan for the 2005 fight, noting that the plan would be aligned as necessary with the solutions that the government would accept on the basis of a final report on the fight defence system, which would be delivered to the Government by the Ministry of Science in cooperation with the State Hydrometeorological Institute. We still don't know if a fight defence will be conducted in 2005. There are rumors that there is a final report that actually works by two proven opponents against the fight. It was signed by the Ministers of Science and Agriculture, though. There won't be any defenses against him. In order to assess the effectiveness, tangible evidence must not only be shared but carefully selected opinions of selected experts. It is, of course, the experts of the authors of the final report. Despite the existence of a proposal to conclude that the defence against the fight is lifted, the agriculture minister assures us that the defences will be. It seems to be only on paper, which is not unusual in Croatia. In order to implement the defence in accordance with the law, it is necessary to create conditions and they are not created for 2005. The hydrometeorological institution, nor for 2005, has no defence income plan. If income is achieved from insurance companies, the Ministry of Finance as the Ministry of Agriculture, which says 10 million will co-finance the defence still lacks more than 6 million kuna. For successful defence, it is necessary to ensure in time and in sufficient amounts of rockets that the launch lamp has four missiles and should be effectively defended. It's just not possible. The competition has been called too late, and according to some information and according to current knowledge, it has been annulled. So the tender that was called by the Hydrometerology Institute was annulled and imagine from the only missile manufacturer to be able to produce the complete number of rockets selected by competition, selected only 3 and a half thousand pieces of rockets, and 4 and a half thousand pieces of rockets by direct sub-unit and from imports from Serbia-Montenegro. For so much as it shows that, in fact, these shortcomings identified by the review in its 2002 and 2003 report actually do not remove these irregularities but continue to be carried out and repeated both by direct contract and by installing competitions and by adapting them directly to those who are interested in it. And finally, when we have the opinion of an institution that is not based on exact data but on judgments, I wonder how much trust can be given to it when its credibility proves the findings of the State Audit, and he says there is no reliable basis to fully confirm that the financial reports of the Institute give a true and objective representation of the situation. How responsibility is assumed in the management and business of the institutions and according to the operational defence against the fight whose failure threatens all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and before irregularities, their eyes are thickly closed and carried from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36598	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36599	Well, my colleague Lalic told me that I missed the topic, and now I'm saying that she was 80 percent of her report on 2005 and she was completely missing out on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36600	Thank you. It wasn't any correction. Let's move on with the debate. With this, the word now has Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36601	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. What I'd like to say at first is that I think the State Audit Office really did a good job and that he did his job in quality and he's really big. As the main state auditor noted in the introduction, 720 entities were processed, 570 units of local self-government, 19 ministries, 9 funds, 5 agencies, 113 other users. As regards the analysis of the business of the users of the state budget in the game, let me put it this way, 104 million kunas of budget money. If we know that the pores of this job have been carried out by the State Audit Office in parallel and auditing conversion and privatisation, then I think these words and praises can stand by more. Also, if we know that this job is done with a total of 273 employees, which I think we'll agree on for the whole system of state administration is not too many people, it's not a lot of people. And what may be even more important to say, and that was said in the introduction, I fear that the quality of people, because of the conditions or better conditions offered elsewhere, will likely continue to leave this service, which would by no means be good. This is the tenth report of the State Audit Office. What has been observed is that the number of irregularities from year to year is decreasing, but it is symptomatic that some users are being repeated from year to year. In particular, these irregularities relate to the procedures for the supply of goods and services, and there is clearly a major breach of the law. So if we know that in 2003, non-financial assets were purchased in the value of $5.4 billion, that there are 18 billion in capital expenditures, then there can certainly be constant doubts. Each of these 720 audited entities, except for honorable exceptions, would be able to find some or many of what was not properly done. Some, however, find it rather critical. I don't think it's exactly the Ministry of Finance, but I'd like to mention it for something else. I think that the Ministry of Finance should be an example of quality recording and compliance with the rules, and that, through monitoring the implementation of the state budget, other beneficiaries of the budget should also be controlled. As a result, I do not think it is good that the Ministry of Finance does not have a drawn-up list of assets of claims and obligations both of the ministries in a narrow sense and of the customs administration that do not comply with the claims on housing loans because the records differ with the banks and the ministry itself. The expenditure on official travel should not be 53% higher than the plan and paid from other positions, therefore not intended. Although the State Budget Act says it can only be spent from the position to the planned amount and purposely. Also in this ministry, in certain cases prior to the conclusion of the contract annex in construction and crafts work, no prior consent has been obtained from the procurement agency. I say this one more time, I'm talking about the Ministry of Finance because I think that in the entire system of state administration, it should be an example and an example to others. In the case of the State budget, all necessary financial reports have not been submitted to the State Audit Office in addition to the annual accounts. Business books do not provide full and timely information in the total public debt, assets, obligations and claims of the state. Foreign foreign exchange funds, individual long-term and short-term loans, are not recorded in accounting. Some expenditures and after a number of redistributions and budget rebalances were made above planned amounts, e.g. for employees and financial expenditures. Current budget supplies include expenditure which cannot be considered urgent and unpredictable but relate to regular expenditure of budgetary users. It is also not a subjugated part of the obligation to the Holy See, which has already been spoken here on several occasions for the period from 1999 to 2003. Debt receipts after the rebalancing were planned with one billion kuna, and according to the funding account, two billion 419 million kuna or 142% more than the plan. Receipts from loans received from other levels of foreign government authorities, international financial organisations also achieved 90.7% more after rebalancing. In accounting and annual financial reports, no part of the short-term debt from 2003 amounts to 7 billion and 884 million kuna. In early 2003, the government decided on criteria for granting state guarantees. Although companies did not meet most of the criteria, those decisions were made by the Government. But what is even more important to me, according to the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2003, the value of the new financial guarantees has been established in the amount of 5.9 billion kuna. However, the government issued nine billion kuna guarantees or 52.6% more than the law allowed. This was due, i.e. guarantees higher than planned or not recorded in accounting and annual financial statements. There are, however, significant amounts of costs, i.e. expenditure not recorded on the burden in 2003 when they were incurred but were transferred in the following year 2004. So the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction in Expensiveness is not shown part of the cost of rebuilding the war of damaged housing units amounting to 36.8 million kuna. Uncovered, and several expenditures are also amounting to €89.3 million, which also relate to the 2003 commitments. A billion and 300 million kunas of work for which 325 million kunas are not provided in the budget for the social promotion of housing are agreed. In addition, the government's agreement on commitments under contracts requiring payment in the coming years has not been obtained. And already mentioned many times the rebalancing of the Croatian highway's financial plan where the billion-dollar deficits and 556 million kuna were planned to increase in 2004. Therefore, the decision of the Croatian Parliament to give consent to this rebalancing nor the said rebalancing was included in the consolidated income and expenditure plan of the state budget, and the government, despite warnings from the Ministry of Finance, disagreed with the Budget Law, still agreed on the rebalancing. Therefore, there are a number of non-recorded and non-recorded items and there are also a number of obligations created in 2003 and not realistically recorded and recorded. In any event, there was also a question of real showing of government budget deficits. It should be noted that this was also pointed out by Prime Minister Sanader's government when taking over power in late 2003 and early 2004 respectively. I suggest we accept this or this report on the work of the State Audit. It is realistic, it shows the real facts that are documented, and I think that after one full analysis, there would certainly be work for some segments, for the State's Attorney's Office, so for certain investigative procedures and after that, to establish a possible responsibility for those who knowingly or unconsciously violated regulations and laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36602	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Mato Stimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam state auditors, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll say a few things about the Home Office's failures. According to the State Audit Office's 2003 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36604	Excuse me. I, on a few occasions, apologize, ring the bell discreetly, just enough to hear it, but it doesn't make sense because it's too lame, so if it can be a little smaller, I'm begging. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36605	So the ministry has no consistent data with the business bank on loans from the Ministry of Defence funds in 1998 to address the housing needs of employees. According to the ministry's credit claim records, they are smaller than that of the bank's assets. Why was there a discrepancy of the data? Why did the ministry not at the same time coordinate the data on loans with the data of the business bank and since the ministry had no insight into the measures taken by the bank in non-compliance with the repayment deadlines, why and in this direction nothing was done by the ministries. The accounts set up by the Ministry for Arts and Alcohol Tests are not individually conducted, but the claims made from the basis of the provision of these water services in the total amount so that there are no records which are paid and which are not. For this reason, it was not possible to take measures to collect these claims. Why the Ministry has not developed a model for recording issued artificial and alcoholic-test accounts in a way that can monitor payments and collect charges on issued accounts. For the lease of 1200 vehicles in 2003 and according to contracts concluded in 2002/2003. expenditures amounting to 36 million kunas have been made in the years. The contracts have been concluded for five years, and the monthly rent for both contracts is 454 thousand 578 euros, with the lease... bail paid at around 19 million kuna. In May 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a letter to the Ministry for acceptance of the project of renewal of the Ministry's fleet through an operational lease stating that the proposed way of obtaining the idea of reducing the cost of using the vehicle was the basis. However, why the ministry did not indicate in the letter the planned value of the cost reduction, the purchase of the vehicle in that way, i.e. as it was the basis of such a finding, since the ministry did not make any study on financial viability. Why the Ministry of Vehicles, which in its calculation contained the guarantee, was obliged to pay into the lease house the total amount of the guarantee at the middle rate of the business bank within 8 days of the signing of the contract or at the latest before the first partial delivery, regardless of the government’s decision not to grant payment in advance. Why did the guarantee ministry that paid the leaser in the amount of 19 million kuna not agree on the way it was returned and all the licking with it took over. Why did the Ministry agree by contract to a certain maximum annual mileage for a particular type of vehicle and, in the event of a mileage, the employer has the right to account for the contracted penalty. The purchase of non-financial assets in 2003 spent 164 million 617 thousand 825 kuna, 26.1% more than planned. For a significant part of this property, especially police equipment, computer equipment and computer programs, suppliers are selected by direct contract rather than public competition procedures. Part of the purchase was contracted because they were marked "state" or "official secret". Why did the Ministry contract part of the procurement in such a way that they were marked by these markings when there was at that time no general act establishing the type and degree of confidentiality of data, in particular protection measures and persons who would be familiar with the classified information as imposed by Article 13. The data protection law. Wasn't that the way to purchase was just a cover for possible other actions? The ministry's expenditure on the construction of 3 V800 vessels for the needs of the Maritime Police in 2003 amounts to 18 million 807, 804 kuna. The contract for the construction of boats was concluded by a direct contract with a shipyard from Italy in 2002, and the agreed amount was 2 million 685 thousand euros or 895 thousand euros per boat. Ships are delivered and paid within the agreed time limit, and the total purchase value of these boats involving an import commission, value added tax and other charges is 24 million 819 thousand and 812 kuna, i.e. 8 million 273 thousand 271 kuna per boat. As a note, the Ministry of Construction of the P205 police patrol ship St. Rocco, which was built in 2004, paid 7 million 131 thousand kuna at the Vela Luka Home Shipyard, which was much more quality and larger than the boats built in Italy. Therefore, less, a million and 100 thousand kunas less per boat, and therefore a legitimate question arises as to why the ministry decided to arrange for the construction of the ships in question with the shipyard in Italy by direct contract, not public competition, or why the business was not done by a domestic company that is a million and 100 thousand kunas cheaper per boat than what was agreed with Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36606	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36607	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Chief Auditor, ladies and gentlemen. The audit carried out in 2003 of ministries, funds and local and regional administrations and self-government has been clearly and precisely implemented, and certain irregularities covered and detected in the audit have been identified. Irregularities and illegality of the procedures resulting from the very assessment of individual entities, and they say that a conditional opinion has been expressed or those who have worked in the spirit of the laws, regulations and government decisions have expressed their unconditional opinion that this, the Ministry, this fund, that agency or that unit of local self-government has worked in the spirit of law and decisions. So I would like to refer to the work of the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises for 2003, which also expressed the conditional opinion of the State Office for the Audit of Businesses of the same. In this ministry, promotion and information services were used by the same supplier after the contract ended in the previous year. The consent of the procurement office, for direct arrangements with the same supplier, was requested and obtained in November 2003. In the case of the purchase of computer equipment worth 199 thousand 75 kuna, the procedure was carried out in December 2003 for the purchase of small value, although public competition had to be carried out since the value of the purchase of the said equipment in the financial year exceeds the amount of EUR 200 thousand. The procurement of a thousand copies of books on the subject of entrepreneurship has not provided the consent of the Entrepreneurship Authority. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2003. In particular, the plan should cover measures in the event of unintended use of funds, and a single procedure against state aid users which comply with the commitments undertaken. Next in the expenditure page, where it is described what expenditures were paid for 2003 for the month of October for the success of the work. This success in the work where it is intended to be paid if there are State budget funds and if the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a regulation on the evaluation of civil servants and subsistence. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted that regulation, however, has not adopted the Regulation on the criteria for determining the above average results. Therefore, these funds paid for the above-average work and the results of the work have been disbursed unlawfully. In addition, pursuant to Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, ... the funds for the payment of the allowance for successful cooperation in certain state bodies shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provided appropriations which it has not adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ministry also granted assistance amounting to 84m560m kuna for 192 entrepreneurial zones in 162 units of local and regional (regional) self-government during 2003. It granted aid of €30 million for 126 entrepreneurial zones in 112 units of local self-government or an average of €238 thousand 95 per zone. The largest funding of 3 million and 300 thousand kuna or 11% of the total amount was paid for co-financing of the zone in Međimurje County and the minimum amount of 300 thousand kuna in Sibenik-Kninska. The lowest amount paid to one zone is 80 thousand kuna and the highest 400 thousand kuna. We're just wondering by what criteria they've set and assigned. Since we have a visual example of Virovitica where a million kunas were assigned for an industrial zone that was later requested to return. This million kuna was allocated to beautiful eyes, probably because no land was provided for the construction of the human zone, and the same case was also in the municipality of Pitomanac, the same million kuna allocated without the provided first conditions for the use of these funds, which is that the municipality owns the land on which the industrial zone will be. Therefore, the Ministry's demand to justify the funds was justified by some, but they were justified only by fiction, never by those zones, neither. The funds were only recovered when conditions were met in the city of Virovitica budget, but were also allocated again when both the first condition and the basic condition for the city to own enough land to build a human zone. While this one at Pitomachi was spent without purpose, without purpose, and they don't know anything yet. The ministry was to develop an action plan for the use of state aid and incentives and to deliver one copy to the Ministry of Finance by the end of January 2003. In particular, the plan was to develop measures in the event of non-purpose use, i.e. failure to fulfil the obligations supported by the support. The provisions of paragraph 4 of that Article provide for the provision of payment of support, the suspension of payment of support to legal persons who do not fulfil their tax and other obligations to the State. A provision in paragraph 7 has established the obligation of the Ministry to apply before the application is made... the funds from the budget for the payment of the support shall be attached to the Ministry of Finance to demonstrate that the support users have properly subsidised their commitments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry did not comply with those provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. The criteria were established in specific programmes on the basis of which support was granted, and the criteria did not cover insurance and return measures in the event of non-intentional use. Therefore, this results in the absence of a single system of monitoring the enforcement of users who have not spent or have not purposely spent the aid granted. There were no uniform instructions on how to handle these cases, but rather from case to case as it was and already highlighted by colleagues from Bitunjca, the highlighted Virovitica case and it was not about any partying but had not obtained the conditions and the funds were also unlawfully recognised. When we talk about funds clearly and... It should be said that there have been a series of irregularities detected in the Regional Development Fund since the employment of the employees in that fund who were employed by the Fund, employed by 8 employees and without competitions on employment and without any publication, without a commission to make the selection, other than the chairman of the administration appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the remaining 8 employees have been admitted into a working relationship without the execution of the tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For intellectual and personal services, 335 thousand 684 kuna and 2 June funds were spent in this fund, for services that were to be provided by the same employees. It is likely that some who have not been trained or trained to carry out such work have been accepted. The funds approved for the financing of the projects do not correspond to the funding determined according to the share of the counties in total assets other than the Primorje-Gorski County. And I would move on to the Ministry of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War where it cannot be avoided that it has seen a series of failures, and a series of illegal actions, and there is a conditional opinion in the finding of a state audit, that I will only indicate in the process of obtaining and installing air conditioning devices amounting to 547 thousand 871 kuna are not applied procedures to obtaining the prescribed provisions of the public procurement law in June 2003. The procedure for limited collection of offers for the delivery and installation of air conditioning devices at the location of Park Stara Trešnevka 6 in Zagreb has been implemented. In August 2004, the procedures for the limited collection of offers at Park Stara Trešnevka 4 were carried out in particular. For the delivery of air conditioning devices for the installation of air conditioning devices. Air conditioning devices were released in October 2003 as air conditioning devices of the same supplier amounting to 567 thousand 831 kuna were purchased and installed during 2003. Public procurement was to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In addition to the delivery of air conditioning devices at Park Stara Trešnevka 4, the Ministry was also required to arrange for the installation services instead of the implementation of a special installation service procedure. Therefore, I am not going into all the details of how the ministry has taken over assistance to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in obtaining housing materials that have never been carried out, etc. We hope that the State's Attorney's Office will have enough to do with these procedures that are actually illegal actions and what actions are to benefit itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36608	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go. Pardon the replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36609	I thank Mr. President, without a special desire for controversy with Mr. Assembly MP, just to say a few words about a number of failures, illegal actions in the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry. I am grateful to the state audit for everything it has done in the past 3.4 years because a good part of what has been done at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence from the Homeland War that functions as a normal ministry should be thanked to the auditors of the State Audit Office. Because last night I read the report from the 99th State Audit Department, and I have to say it's better than a crime novel. So when you talk about a series of failures and illegal actions in the Ministry for 2003, then I ask you how you would evaluate the work of the Ministry that was then in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Democratic Community. But I'm not saying it because of what was before, but I'm saying it and it's doing it today at the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Because I don't think I'm going to be wrong if I say that the Ministry how it worked in these four years that it was done as the pharmacy would say, unlike what it was in the '90s and what it is today, because we can read in the paper that the minister is offering a resignation and that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is predisposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36610	Replication response, respected representative Josip Djakic. Please allow each other to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36611	Mr. President, I have to replicate because the truth is really bypassing, and it shows what it isn't and I'm not talking about 89, 88, we're talking about the year of your ministry that you were headed for in 2003. So I will repeat, at the end of 2001 the Ministry concluded a protocol to help with housing... The Homeland War, Bosnia and Herzegovina with the ministry of human rights, refugees and the council of ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The said protocol obliged the Ministry to obtain materials for the reconstruction and construction of facilities for the victims of the Homeland War... A million kunas. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is obtained from producers in the area who are debtors of the state budget for the reconstruction and construction of housing facilities for the victims of the domestic war that resides in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In July 2002, the Ministry of Finance wrote off a debt of value added tax and interest due to an unjust... tax, contract for the supply of construction material... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ministry's taxpayers have committed themselves to delivering construction material. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They didn't deliver it in 2003 because they didn't even... What happened in 2002 was you did not take certain measures, so it is thought that you went to those hands and that 20 and some million kunas were divided with those who were suppliers of materials and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] tax and VAT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just like you and don't... The truth is this was written in the report of the state audit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36612	Thank you. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36613	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Audit Office, since we've received these materials, obviously your work has not been lacking. If you were to be paid by effect, you would probably have very high incomes, which would be a little undercut by the deadlines of the job done, because a part of the public in 2005 may, after the announcement of these 2003 findings, be resilient and say from their concerns, I don't know what happened to me the day before yesterday and let alone last year. However, from the angle of pale memories but here are the fresh paper that reminds us of our failures, we may wonder about the possibility of revisions of various bodies and bodies to which many stories of corruption are bound. We are presented with a bunch of materials and a CD with countless megabytes of 2003 records. And we MPs wonder if it's the tip of a dream or an iceberg and if it's what that glacier is underneath. Whether or not this glacier with the expected global warming in the world will begin to decrease here or when we start to find this revision for ourselves, our micro world is quite resistant to external factors, with a hard core of illegality and circumstantiality or prejudice of the law. Without the time options of pretentiousness because this cannot be included all in the short presentation that is scheduled for one representative I will look back on just one thing, the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health through the agreement took the obligation to co-finance investments in health institutions and contrary to the provisions of the Health Protection Act, the founders and owners of which are not located in areas of special state concern. With the IBRD loan for the health system project, this loan was not realised within only 39.9% of the funds and, of course, a good part of that for advisory services. There was an extension of the time limit for the withdrawal of the loan funds and, accordingly, the obligation to pay compensation for the unused loan. In the procurement procedures, the failures previously warned are visible. Twenty-two procurement procedures have been annulled, four procurement procedures have been suspended. The health system information project launched prior to the insurance of the 100 million kuna financial resources for the entire project implementation period was annulled by the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure. In the implementation of the project, healthy TV videos and the animation of the logo were ordered and why some 162 thousand kunas were spent and the materials received were not shown on TV. Powers for the acquisition of property were transferred to health institutions, however, procedures were carried out without adequate control and with unintended spending of funds, regardless of the fact being warned in 2002. Also in the business of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the problem of public procurement of medicines has been highlighted, or has been warned about the difficulties of healthcare institutions. The Institute did not carry out the procurement procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and did not seek exemption from the prescribed procedure prior to the adoption of the list of medicinal products. And it could still be listed, but it's obvious that the interest in this assembly and perhaps beyond it is what it is, but there's always a question of responsibility, responsibilities and definitions, which means this revision. Is this our revision one of our charms, a spell on earth made, perhaps in heaven registered and in reality only recorded on paper that floats between all our institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36614	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36615	Dear Mr. President, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues! In my review of the State Audit Report, I will refer to the State Audit report in Croatian highways, so very briefly and I will quote what is stated in the State Audit Report, and I think that way I will not let my colleagues correct the wrong quote. So, the Croatian Auto-road Society d.o.o. gave an advance to one contractor of 24 million 755 thousand 644 kuna on the basis of the completed addendum of the contract. It is not in line with the provisions of the basic contract concluded on the basis of a public tendering procedure which, in accordance with the criteria set out in the proposal for a dossier, is agreed not to be paid in advance. I am saying this because it was probably in the tender documentation that Croatian highways would pay in advance, perhaps our companies that participated in the tender for the construction of that tunnel would go with a lower price and have the same conditions of competition as the company that came from Italy and get a job in the construction of that tunnel and I must also say that before the launch of that tender, some 2,000 years ago, a national advantage was lifted for our builders, so the benefits with which they had the advantage of getting a job if they accepted the best bidder's offers to build public works in Croatia. The additional contract concluded with the contractor of the construction of the Mala Kapel tunnel, which contracted a premium of 48 million kuna without tax, does not fully comply with the provisions of the basic contract and a declaration of establishment of a company. The basic contract did not provide for the payment of the premium or any other form of reward to the contractor for the temporary execution and all of this would be good and perhaps somewhat and explaining that it was not only 31 days. So our company, a Croatian company owned by the Croatian state, gives the foreign contractor 48 million kuna rewards for 31 days of previously performed works, and it might not be strange if a good part of these works that were mentioned in the supplemental contract had not already been carried out, here is the 31.5th contract signed in the 12th month since the fifth month of that year. The fees for speeding up the construction of the highway were paid to one contractor of $5.5m before the contract was concluded, which determined the amount and other terms of payment of the fee. The expenditure on legal services paid for in the amount of 453 000 without the contracts being concluded, and subsequently there is no review of the services performed. The expenditures are settled on a flat-rate basis rather than on a real job. Obligations from earlier years have not been paid under the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, for the housing of defenders of 2 million and 41 thousand kuna. I am being represented and as a man who has long worked in local self-government I wonder what would have happened to one of the mayors, one mayor and also the mayor that he did this way. It would be all over the press, on all the headlines, and I believe it would be crime. The police had work to do. And I'm only going to tell you one experience that I had in 2000. In early 2000, we built a square. I got the crime. The police because we didn't make a supplemental annex contract on minor works and because we built a bridge, the city built a bridge on the county road, so it invested in a county road owned by the county road administration. So, according to the law where we should be punished, we're not all equal, we're divided into small and large. And what my colleague Rosic said, we condemn the phenomenon and save the others. Let me explain a little bit more what I said here from the report and it's about the chapel tunnel. I'm a little sentimentalally bound because it's only five kilometers from home, so that's why I'm talking about it, and I know what it's about. On the basis of an international competition, the company concluded a contract on 19 April 2000 for the construction of a two-way small Kapel road tunnel. The agreed value is 261 million 749 thousand kuna. The parts of the contract are contractual agreement, offer letter, contractual data, POD data and general terms of the contract. The Roadmap and other reviews and contributions. Payment of works carried out through the temporary and final situation has been agreed. The contract states that the agreed amount covers all the obligations of the contractors in the contract and all the things that are necessary for the precise completion of the works and the removal of all shortcomings. With these connotations from the contract, our builders went to this contest to get the job and what is interesting and there is documentation at the same time as the tender for the construction of the Kapel tunnel and when the Italian company receives the job in Italy, the Italian press appears to launch bankruptcy on the Italian company "Cop constructors". I have this documentation in my bag and it's been translated from the Italian press and it's been given to our state services, but regardless of which Croatian highways make a deal with that company, they give it a job to build a tunnel, give her a advance and give her a reward of 48 million kuna, because 31 days earlier it's supposed to end the tunnel. I believe that this kind of job giving was domestic or foreign to me is pure, clean crime, and that we here need to request a state audit that the state's audit should review this documentation primarily here, which is what this tunnel construction is about, and what do we have on the tunnel today? Today we have that the company that received the prize, which received the deposit, has locked the rooms in Ogulin, has left the machines that Croatian workers who have not received the salaries for 3 months are using to block the entrance to the tunnel. We have that the Italian company is in debt to our subcontractors 50 million kuna and we have that 150 people who haven't been paid strike in front of the tunnel are blocking further works that are carried out by our company I mean viaduct. I also believe that if possible, and this is an appeal from the rest of the contract if it will be respected by these 48 million peace-making workers, if legally possible and above all, settle the salaries of the lag behind, the late salaries of the workers who worked on the tunnel and something else. A complete, complete drain in a tunnel of 5 thousand and 900 meters is being taken out and there is another drain in the tunnel, which is inadmissible to do so by another company and then to pay, and the company that was to do so has also received an advance of 24 million kuna and it has been granted free to say a reward of 48 million kuna, in my opinion very questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36616	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36617	Dear Mr. President, Madam State Auditor has been told a lot about the state audit so far, and now we can just repeat ourselves on some issues. I'm going to stick to the health line and I'd say in principle that it's working in the audit, there's actually been a violation of three laws. The Budget Act, Article 37, where all commitments are made in the long term, so long-term credit obligations need to be obtained before the Government's consent and then the Public Procurement Act, Article 14. that funds must first be provided before entering any investment and the third is the Health Protection Act, Article 8. where exactly where the State can invest, to what level, and in fact investments in county hospitals. There's a broken law. It has also been pointed out that, in fact, the public procurement process has been largely violated in many cases, in what they would say to a smaller extent, and in some cases, when watching these investments and supplies in health care, then it is seen from the fact that the procurement procedure has been annulled in 22 cases, and in 4 cases it has been suspended, and that the State Commission for the Control of Procedures has annulled the procurement of equipment for, information equipment because no funds have been provided. When we talk about this procurement process, it is also important to say that respect for the principle of verifying the value of the contractor is also important for both construction works and equipment suppliers because it is obvious that, for example, the Ministry's claim of 841 million refers to 4 companies. These are the performers who actually went bankrupt a year before that, and now the question is whether they'll ever be able to charge that money. When the sum of 161 thousand kuna was already mentioned in the mention of expenditures in the Ministry of Health's cut, the project "Living Healthy" where it was actually raised, propaganda materials were raised but not broadcast. So the money was spent in vain. About 2 million and 200 thousand kunas were paid for intellectual services. These were mostly persons from the Ministry of Health, and I would remind you that in 2003 the Ministry of Health numbered 200 employees, unlike in 1999, when there were 89 employees. And during that period, it did not take to that extent experts under the contract for work on some projects. When it comes to the purchase of equipment, it is evident that the Ministry of Health participated with 211 million, and that the institutions themselves spent 83 million kuna on their own for the purpose of doing tenders. It is interesting to mention that the 2002 audit obliged the Ministry to control precisely this procurement that the institutions themselves were doing, but the report shows that in 2003 the Ministry did not do so. Information has also been mentioned, which has also entered into a single project, and before that it is not properly defined any of this information needs. In fact, I would remind myself that the information in the health system was started back in 1993, and much more in 1995, and then we came in 2000 and 2003, where it practically started from scratch, and money was given to projects that in some ways could not be justified because I say something of the information in the health care system was there and it was good, and it was going into projects that practically treated the health system as if there were no information. Debts have been mentioned that 18 agreements with the counties of health institutions have been made on joint investments. That's the famous one-and-a-half billion kuna that was planned for investment. This has already been mentioned that many projects in county hospitals were actually not in line with the Health Protection Act where county institutions which are not in areas of special state care in them, or, as the owner of clinical institutions, the government could not invest in county hospitals. Therefore, these are the facts that speak of the violation of these three laws that I have mentioned, I would also say that when the article of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute was being developed, I would only indicate a few things from that data. It was indicated that in 2004, in fact, the administrative council at the first session of the constitution did not adopt the financial plan of the Croatian Institute. The reason was that the Council had just taken note of this report but did not accept it because it was not satisfied with the financial indicators. And this was shown at the next session when it was found that 500 thousand kunas of opportunity were not shown on the spending side. Because during 2003, the Croatian Institute led accounting in a way that showed only paid obligations and did not. By law on the 2002 state budget, it was an obligation to book and pay for expenditure, but also to make commitments. There was a difference of 500 million kuna. And in the subsequent report it was put so that then these new indicators were saying that actually that 500 million kuna expenditure was greater than it was shown in the original report. And what's already mentioned that I think it's important to mention is that credit for reforming the health system of $29 million. Which is mostly spent on a good deed unintentional. It's about seven million dollars in intellectual services. He was not fully withdrawn should have been completed by the end of 2000. And it's not. So only 39.9% of the funds were spent. And that's why the fines of $250,000 were paid. I would now say in principle that all those such projects outside the pilot who were not specifically just the health departments but also other ministries, in principle I would say somehow check out to remind me of a plane that when it starts to lose speed then the pilot jumps out with good fees in his pocket and the plane crashes it all paid by the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36618	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36619	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. Regarding the report of the audit for 2003. It has to be said that it's made very detailed and quality. BUT I am also convinced that if such an audit finding were in a city or municipality or county during the past period of the former government, where the HDZ is in power by chance, there would be work for both the state's attorney and the police for crime. And for many others. And it would be in all the media. The truth there could not be talked about millions and billions but about much smaller amounts because it is also opportunities. Here we have a series of examples of obvious violations of the law on supply. A law passed by the former Assembly. On the proposal of the then former government that later violated him in many segments. And there are also a number of violations in public enterprises especially in Croatian highways. My colleague Vukic has already spoken a lot about the business with the Italian consortium today in front of bankruptcy and what is worst in the whole story is the worst that our co-operatives and employees have gone through. Although the management of the Croatian highways had no foothold at the time, neither in the tender documentation nor in the contract itself, it was paid an advance to the consortium so that it could start work. Also paid is the prize for early work worth 48 million kuna. All of this has not been given any consent even to the supervisory board of the Croatian highways. We have to ask ourselves where and why so much desire to help a foreign consortium that is facing bankruptcy. And in the overall business of this company, it is best to say our co-operatives to whom no work has been done today. We remember a great deal recently in each other's competitions when we showed great concern for our performers even though nothing had happened, not a single kuna passed by the law. In a number of examples of non-economic behaviour of the Ministry of Public Works of Reconstruction and we have an example spent over 4 million kunas to adapt the former military hospital for the needs of the restoring ministry. 4 million was spent and that facility wasn't even touched. This is usually the amount with which a single primary school can be built and equipped and put into operation. So build not only draw. Here 4 million kunas are spent on a project of lawyers, consultants, and ultimately nothing. It was often heard how professional, teamed, competent the ministry was then. So the question arises why is the involvement of experts outside the resolution ministry? Because we know that the ministry is employed and graduate lawyers, architects of architecture, construction, engineering that have so far prepared a series of cost-effectives of tendering for tender documentation, conducted a series of competitions. Well, I don't think it was necessary to hire a lawyer's house in particular. What was the result of that engagement in the end we see that 4 million kunas were spent and nothing from the whole story. There is also a very good example of spending and sharing funds from this ministry without any criteria. Thus, more than 62 million kunas were spent to finance regional development projects, without any setting of criteria and criteria for spending. The funds were shared without any criteria, so only one county received more than 20% of these funds, or more precisely 21.4% and the rest was divided into the area of the other 18 counties. Such a distribution of regional development funds has led a pre-election campaign on the burden of the state budget by system, you're mine to help you. And I won't tell you. Which many of our mayors and mayors can confirm. In today's debate, a lot has been presented, and I think that's enough reason for this finding of a state audit that is very large and detailed, and I believe that with a particular literary process it would be a very interesting novel for a wide audience. To deal with this finding by the state's attorney's office just to end this situation and to keep things from happening again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36620	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would, in no time, interrupt the debate on the State Audit Office reports and the audits carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36621	We are going to continue to discuss the revision of the transformation and, the audits carried out and the State Audit Office. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36622	Your Honor, Mr. President, ma'am, the state's chief auditor. I'll wait until they get out of the House of Representatives. Your Honor, Mr. President, ma'am, the state's chief auditor. This is a good piece with very sad and tragic content, speaking of the whole review. What should be said at first, if this entire review ends in this debate, and it doesn't end with the state's attorney, then our entire esteemed, esteemed team of the State Audit has actually worked for nothing. And if the state's attorney's work is progressing, I'll say in part of a health debate that I'll limit myself to for a short period of time. I will talk about the findings at the Ministry of Health and at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and in some health institutions. And right away at the beginning, I should say that this sad content has been published by us seven days after we took office in this term of office of this government. We've brought out the same contents that are here and experienced great criticism, and that's why I should be happy now that the State Audit confirmed what we found, but I'm sad. I'd be happier if we were wrong. In its 2003 mandate, the Ministry of Health made illegal shops for several billion kunas. And this is the first time in the history of the State Audit that a resolution in its offence is passing hundreds of millions and moving into a billion-sized order. So these tiny little, I'd say, childish violations such as 160 thousand kuna are short of showing the ordered material for television spots, or, for example, the fact that 50 employees received 50 thousand kuna each on the basis of an operating contract over a period of time while the number of employees in the Ministry has tripled. It is a childhood game or let's say the Ministry didn't withdraw from the budget for the Croatian Red Cross a million and a half kuna, it's a small thing. The Croatian Red Cross doesn't need that. I guess that's what the minister of the day thought. However, when we take orders and move into illegal shops that are intruding next year, then we must be afraid. In fact, on page 242 of the revision, it clearly states that the Ministry concluded contracts in the period 2003 worth 350 million kuna, with a maturity of up to 7 years. In other words, the ministry spent budgets for today's government in 2003. That's how much she owed this government with her decisions. There is a distinct feature of the intention here because most of the contracts have been concluded in the last month before the election. That's not the State Review, of course, because it's not her job, but I would only point out one of the biggest such contracts, and it's a health information contract worth 81 million kuna, which was completed the last working day, so on Friday before the election. The contract was concluded and done all night so that it could be written off by midnight before the election, and it was a long dark night at the health ministry that day. As far as the contract was made in that one night, the State Audit on page 242 clearly states that the information project was not sufficiently elaborated and ready for implementation at the time of the signing of the contract and was launched before the conditions were established. It remains that this was done contrary to the State Budget Act, which does not allow the Government to be in charge of the next periods without consent. What should also be pointed out here, these are the obligations made by the Ministry to invest in the county, in county hospitals, therefore, contrary to Article 8. The health care law. The ministry signed agreements, I quote, "valued by a billion 521 million and contracts worth 223 million". It is illegal, therefore, against the law, Article 8. The health care law. What I would add, and it wasn't a review job, all these contracts were concluded within a month before the election. So the pre-election campaign cost only as health care concerns over 2 billion kunas of our citizens. All these contracts that have been concluded in those last month before the election should indeed be subject to the State's Attorney's Office's investigation. As it's managed by state money, or if we want people's money, it's seen from the World Bank loan where $29 million was spent on intellectual services. What kind of contracts are we seeing today because the World Bank has punished its contract company, the company with which such a contract was reached, punished it with a four-year ban on participation in the world market. Our party signed is not punished but enjoys today the fruits of its work and this war in good positions. As far as the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is concerned, we also saw that a billion and 668 million kuna debt was planted under the carpet immediately after the first 7 days. Then we're very resentful because we're turning back, and we're not looking forward. Anyone who takes over a resistor must draw a line to see what he is responsible for and what the predecessors are for. So on the State Audit page, 319 clearly says "the obligations of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are less shown by a billion 668 million kuna". The balance sheet records have been transferred off-balance sheet records. At our request, the budgetary surveillance inspection has declared this against the law because it is the opposite of Article 292(1). The penal code because the balance sheets are faked, and that's how business is faked. Of course, we had to make up for that billion and 600 million. Small numbers from a few dozen to a couple of hundred million may not even be worth mentioning after these figures, but I'll say it anyway. The expenditure on severance and pensions for the purpose of resolving surplus staff, amounting to 46 million HZZO without the consent of the Government, is paid and the selection of insurance company that carried out the job, 46 million kuna, is, of course, directly affected without the Public Procurement Act, page 320 of this audit. How the HZZO was ordered in 2003 is seen from the item of medicines. And we warned in time and we were hard-on for you by most of the media and most of the political parties. In fact, expenditure on drugs of 2 billion and 396 million kuna, as well as expenditure on orthopaedic aids amounting to 427 million kuna, has not been implemented according to the procedure under the Public Procurement Act. So our sums of billions of dollars are here, unfortunately, everyday. What it looked like at the level of individual hospitals whose principals we replaced at that time with general embezzlement, I will show only from the revision of one of them's operations and with the smallest, I would say, illegal actions. It's about Mercury Clinical Hospital, page 39 of the review, and the facility says, "The material and raw materials worth 30 million 728 thousand 544 kuna, materials and raw materials without public procurement competitions, direct contract." Some suppliers received contracts from 771 thousand to 9 million kuna on that occasion. So, just one facility over 30 million kunas without public procurement. The result of such procurement is in an extraordinary analysis of the parallel prices in that institution in the KB Mercury according to other institutions. For example, photocopier paper cost at Mercury Medical Hospital 69 kuna that year, and in other institutions that work at the expense of the budget, 19.5 million kuna, you know, 19.5 kuna, so more than 300% of the price is done on the market. But what I'm about to say is he hasn't been able to stand it yet. Namely, the toilet paper of Carla's rose, that's that nice pink soft, in retail it costs 10 kuna, the ministries and institutions paid 6.9 kuna, which is normal, if it's 10 kuna for a little bit to make 6.9 kuna big. At Mercury Clinical Hospital, that toilet paper cost 16.8 kuna, so it cost 68% more than retail. Do the math and multiply it by thousands of rolls and you'll see that toilet paper can handle anything. The registrar paid 16 kuna for the hospital, the ministries paid 6.9 kuna. The thermollo for computer 894 kuna, and the Holy Spirit Hospital was paying 264 kunas at the same time, etc. The average consumption material obtained by direct contract was more expensive than other institutions by 150 to 350%. What happened, the paper handles all sorts of things. I'm not going to talk about the revision of the KBC of Rebro now because that director was also removed because of the irregularities found there, but also about others, but I would like to conclude, if it becomes a rule that those who spend hundreds of millions and billions of dollars in this way have protection of the public and parts of the policy then I suggest we disband the state audit. If this ends with a state's attorney and there are certain consequences, then I suggest we congratulate the state's audit. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36623	Thank you very much. Madam representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Chief State Auditor. And I adhere to these wishes of my esteemed colleague who thinks and hopes like all those who may have come to some source of our debate that there will be certain sanctions that there will be certain changes in the model of conduct, and that we will not talk about that the state authorities are violating the rules which are first obliged to respect that the state has the reputation and credibility among the people, so if we expect citizens to respect the laws of this country then the least we can expect is that those who adopt the laws are responsible and those who are obliged to implement them first and best. However, it is not in this case and it is something which is warning and which depicts the state of the total spirit of mentality, and the model of behaviour in this country and it is not good. I'm only going to look at two segments of this report, and I'm going to underline, a year and a half ago in 2003, because today some who don't mention that this review for 2003 could have been led astray and think that it happened last year, that it happened because we have all the computers, that the data is rapidly processed today, that it happened a few months ago. No, we're discussing something that happened a year and a half ago, so in 2003, and why we as the current government are co-responsible if we don't sanction. Only so much if we do not warn that it was very badly done and the Ministry of Agriculture, based on this report, certainly is. Because if I'm just quoting certain parts of my opinion then it's sad to say that the annual list of assets of the claim is not fully done that the monitoring of acquisition, movement and state of property in the Ministry has not been properly implemented and that the data on the property of the Ministry has not been delivered to the Office of State Property. For agricultural lending programmes, no business books were kept in line with budget accounting and no revenue was shown on the basis of the payments, they may be small for some large ones, but they amount to nearly 30 million kuna. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture has shown to its own income something that has resulted from the monopoly on the market, and the revision has found that what could have been considered its own income and only the sale of the liquor in its own cafeteria, and everything else obtained by virtue of the positive regulations and monopolys is undermining veterinary professions and what has been shown to be the same in several million amounts is not the Ministry's income, but is the revenue of the budget, obtained by law that is in force. We can also say that this ministry has not been deprived of the desire to obtain basic funds beyond the public procurement law and beyond market conditions, because if we know that the best-sold goods in this country have been in the last few years of the car, then we know that in this offer there is great competition, that there is a huge comparison and great savings possible, but not this Ministry has found to purchase similar cars on a pre-account basis, to pay them for months before they are delivered as if the car is a rare commodity that will not be, or which is produced specifically by the order of our Ministry of Agriculture, therefore, non-compliance with this law has resulted in the cost of funds being irrationally, unreasonablely and to the damage of the taxpayers who have alimated in this whole business. We also have to say we know what the consequences of the fight are, and we also know what the damages that we could have been, of course, only subsidized to our farmers, not to compensate for all the damage but to participate in their recovery, we must say that it is not a fair law which must agree to the proposal to implement the defence against the fight for 2004 and the coming year, and that by the day of the review until June last year we still hope that this was done. So, not only has it not been shown neatly in expenditures but it has not even made a plan for next year. I will not say, therefore, that in the planning of total funds in the Ministry of Agriculture, the plan should have been 2 billion and 400 million kuna, however, it was achieved, with revenue achieved 100% more but in expenditures and expenditures of 24% more, so it was transferred over the next year 800 million kuna, and we know the consequences of the expenditures were growing 23% more than the revenues and was deliberately lost, which was simply compared to the budget, the Budget Law and the Ministry's behaviour inadmissible. I will also take a very short look at the report on the situation in the Croatian Privatisation Fund because, as the Ministry did not care about where the owner is, we could say even less that it worked neatly, in which much larger assets were, therefore, listed and really valorised, so that we can say according to point 3 of the Fund's opinion that the funds were not achieved by the sale of the shares in the state budget which had to be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act but left in its account, there were no timely collection measures under the sales and lease of real estate and no contractual payment insurance instruments were used and with three lawyers were concluded contracts which established payment and a monthly flat-rate for both the same jobs and the legal tariffs, which resulted in high costs absolutely unnecessary and I am not going to say what in a state which is extremely high level of corruption-ranking state, according to all indications that it would be done internationally. Moreover, every economist and every good master is incomprehensible and vague. When you have money, don't spend your money, but give it to the bank at a rate that's twice as small, so the bank rules your money, earns on it a profit on you. You give the bank money, it gives you credit, but for your money, it gives you twice as much interest as for a loan that you naturally damage taxpayers again, at least for that difference of interest if for anything else. So what happened simply first raises the question of common sense, other knowledge, and third good intentions. And now I'm going back to law services, I don't have that much time, but it's all about multimillion-dollar sums, so... And I repeat, it's something that's inadmissible because these same people and it's only three of them. Therefore, there is also an offer given the number of lawyers who are very large in Croatia and this is about three who have been chosen in particular, who have received over half the cost of representing more than 3 million and some kuna for intellectual services. Together, I'm talking about the flat-rate fee they got, regardless of the job plus paying according to the sports bar that they ran without saying that the company's data and records were supposed to list a thousand 110 companies, but it's registered 885. Only 225 of them are reported to be lost somewhere, not knowing what that value is, neither the value of their portfolio nor why this difference has occurred in the documents at all. Not to say that by making decisions that she agreed that the fund could lend loans to companies, the government played some kind of money bank, and that he was disarming his assets and raising loans to banks now he was still the third creditor to give loans to businesses directly violated the law. So, if she wanted to do it, she needed to change the law that would allow it. However, without changing the law by its decision, I see that it is red, and I will end up because these reports also say that someone should blush and I hope they will. So I hope that the revision will give a better report for the years that are closer to us and I congratulate them on their well done work, so from the point of view of the accounting profession, all those regulations, they've done a great job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36625	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam State Auditor! Here, as well as during his debate on the work of the State Audit Office in the last year and this year, we should really commend the work of the State Audit Office. In its work report, this office, which covers the report of the structure, authority, mode of work, number of employees, the issues they had in information, international cooperation and audits, we see that this is indeed a large number of 720 audits in 2004. The work programme was also presented in 2005 and audits were announced at the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Employment Service, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and other funds, agencies, institutions and all those financed by public funds were announced. In my presentation, I would really briefly refer only to the parts of this very extensive one I have already said a comprehensive report and only in some ministries. The report shows that some ministries have conducted business and financial reports, in accordance with the rules laid down by the accounting of budgets and budget beneficiaries, and the business has taken place in accordance with the regulations laid down by the ministry's jurisdiction. However, in a large part of the ministry, there has indeed been a failure that is said to be repeated even frequently because if we compare it to the 2002 revision, then we will see that the Ministry of Labour and Social Care has again seen irregularities in the supply of goods, works and services in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the Regulation on the procurement of goods, works and services of small value. For example, in 2003, social care institutions obtained material for hygiene and care, cleaning material without a prior public procurement process, and the same error was observed in the 2002 audit. So nothing's changed. It was even more interesting that the investment and construction facilities for which this ministry spent 82 million kuna 453 544 thousand and found that no payment instruments were agreed in the event of non-performing obligations, no final situation or records on the quantity, the quality of the works carried out, and for the overrun of the deadlines were even accounted for, and the particularly paid fine. And one similar case I'm going to make here as an example, and I've also asked the current Ministry of Health and Social Care as a question and this problem. Namely, an institution that is in construction in my county, which is the Center for mentally retarded persons in Komarevo near Sisko. The papers were arranged with the company "Cup 91". Only part of it is done, the object is unfinished, the works are paid, the situation is over. So there's been a whole series of payouts and funding jobs. The facility does not end, it stands as is likely with similar projects of this ministry. Namely, I've learned that a similar case is with the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Vukovar. Namely, the same company is the performer of the work "Cup 91" from Petrinja. No one's answered yet. The object is standing. Everything is done by reverse procedure. I'll give you another example. Home for older and powerless people in Sisak. He signed a contract on the connection of his hotline to the heating of the sports recreation centre. It's interesting that no building permit has been issued, the contracts have been signed. Even some equipment was purchased that was paid, paid neatly, but now it's standing in a warehouse which is normal because the works can't be carried out any further until a building permit is obtained. Here, these are really the gaps that are recorded in this ministry, the former ministry. In some other ministries, there were failures of the same kind. Dr. Hebrang spoke nicely and there's no point in me repeating it. He even taxed out what was going on at the health ministry with the same gaps. It was also possible for some of these contracts to be cancelled in January 2004 that non-intentional spending of funds for institutions, supplies of materials and medicines was necessary and only possible in January 2004. In the information process, so much has been discussed in the health care system about this programme. The State Office pointed out that no financial resources were provided for the entire period of implementation of this project in general. Contracts with suppliers for equipment and services have been concluded. Also because of the delay in construction work, it was not possible to install equipment that was purchased and stored in some hospitals. Unfortunately, it is not built up to this day because there is no condition for it. Those building conditions that were needed were not created, and on the contrary, I can tell you that spent money might sound a little bit in these big figures. What Dr Hebrang also pointed out 161 thousand for the project "Live Healthy" which has never revived and not seen the light of day. The videos were made, but the citizens they were probably meant to be with didn't even see them. We need more emphasis on this same ministry, why do I point that out? Because now all of this is borne by the Ministry of Current Health and Social Care, which is here made up of these two former ministries. We can see how many leaks there have been. And for those 46 contracts on work for jobs whether temporary or regular jobs, the State audit found that, that these transactions could have been carried out under the Ministry without paying external associates. This was also established in 2002. The same gaps continue in 2003. Especially about the World Bank loan for that health system reform project which is now as Dr. Hebrang said some and punished will not repeat and mention it again, but here at the end to say that it has been missed in these two ministries, and I tried to read that review again since 2002, and now this one from 2003 repeats that almost the same gaps in the same ministries and since the previous years, so I believe that something will still be done and that for all of these failures someone will answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36627	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36628	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Mrs. Auditor with his associates. I would just continue what I started this morning through the club, and in a concrete debate, I will look back at the work of our special housing department. So I'm citing the results from your audit. The audit find states that several agreed works and services are worth a billion 300 million for which no incentive funds are provided in the budget of 25%, i.e. of 325 million kuna compared to the total planned for 2003 funding. Since the case in question concerns construction contracts that predominate the implementation of the cca two financial years, since the complex planning process of the construction would be precisely encouraged annually by those funds, which is at the level of the appropriations. That the process is complex and often long-term best illustrates the fact that, almost a year and a half after the change of government, the new system and administration are now the Agency for the Legal Transport of Real Estate, regardless of all previously obtained permits, has not yet begun the construction of all the facilities in the Spanish settlement. On the note that certain procedures in the implementation of the programme of socially encouraged housing have not been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Encouraged Apartment Construction, the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on Construction and other similar ones: I am fully responsible for claiming that all purchases have been carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act under the appropriate procedure, based on the related parts of the main project, the costs and plans of the main project, and not on the idea as stated in your report. In addition to this, I have what I will give you after the final debate, a complete tender documentation for facilities in Spain and the Councils from which the text accurately shows that it was a competition with major projects, not ideas. It is also incorrect to assume that consent and the Ministry of Finance, the procurement agencies were obtained after the selection of contractors. The direct contract procedure was carried out as well as other procedures in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. In cases where no re-competition procedure has been reported by the relevant number of tenderers and it was not possible to make the choice of contractors because between one you have nothing to choose the Commission then asked the Ministry of Finance to obtain a direct agreement with the only bidder who met all the conditions of the announced tender. It was only after the agreement was obtained that the contract was concluded. If it were different, we would be psychics who know in advance what kind of solution the Ministry of Finance will make. I would also point out that the exact opposite of the audit finding was cancelled when the amounts offered were higher than planned. A review of project solutions in the form of variants was requested for the re-competition of the designer to include the construction in the planning costs. In cases where the unit, when units of local self-government used Article 6, paragraph 3. The Law on POS for the development of increased costs that were subject to specific building conditions. Especially in the narrows of the city's cores where there are special conditions other than the general conditions. For example, special conditions of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments such as in the case of an armory in Karlovac or reconstruction of residential buildings in Bujam which is under special protection. As regards the observations relating to the construction of business premises, it is important to mention that local self-government units were not able to provide land for buildings in which only apartments would be located, so according to the requirements of urbanism, access to and construction of business spaces was required. The financing of these business spaces was largely resolved in a way that was financed by contractors on their costs and from the reserve fund, and after the sale of those premises, these funds returned. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Shirac present in the assembly who talked about it in his debate because then probably what he was misrepresented might be a little clearer. According to the Law on Spatial Planning, it is also necessary to provide the apartment building with the following number of parking spaces, which are normally financed in units of local self-government from the collection of municipal contributions. Often, parking spaces are not able to be built outside the garage, so in this case, parking spaces are resolved by building a garage. The Law on the municipal economy, which individual units of local self-government differing interpretations and does not carry out adequate administrative supervision of the conduct of legality, is the refusal of local self-government units to finance this building of parking spaces within the facility. Although units of local self-government must specify all costs associated with building equipment for the utility price. In cases where buildings are built and garages are then tried to sell and settle the initial funds by public competition. If the implementation of public competitions for the sale of business space and garages whose construction is conditioned by urbanism cannot find customers then the investor must calm down because the construction of these facilities has not been accessed by his own will. In the course of advertising, sales by local self-government units have always been asked for the value of these areas according to the tax administration criteria. According to the current Standardisation Act, in the rule of business space costs, 70 % of the price of the square meter apartment is in the "robau" finality and 60 % of the square place of the apartment. And they cannot be unified and even for the entire Republic of Croatia because they depend, of course, on the positional rent of the facility. The remarks that the contracting of a study of books and regulations is not necessary for Pos to be carried out again I call upon Mr. Shirtz to follow this. Earlier, the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development had contracted with an architectural college to monitor the housing care programme for the victims of the Homeland War. And the coordination of all projects. So I'm talking about that previous government. As part of this cooperation, guidelines for the design of dwellings and residential buildings have been developed which have significantly deviated from Croatian norms due to some specificities. Our arrival continued to cooperate on the completion of this program. Certain changes have been introduced since life and practice have shown certain things unacceptable. And unquality. And preparations have been started for the Posa program. Until the change in the ministry on 3 January 2000, the work was done through the mediators of the roof consulting house of the Centre for Construction Organization. And our arrival made a direct deal with the university, noting that this job was arranged significantly lower than the one before. At the time of Minister Radic. Faculty of Architecture with 80 architects and 20 doctors of science, engineers and experts of other professions important in the process of residential construction, the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that has been called for such guidelines. Each of the contracts was preceded by the consent of the Ministry of Finance, which is the obligation and the Public Procurement Act. In order to start a new Posa programme that was parallelly developed through legislation and also implemented through realisation in order to shorten the long-term bureaucratic processes and to obtain results on the ground, it was necessary to order design guidelines that followed the construction according to the programme, and they also sought to verify decisions that needed to improve housing and serve as the basis for checking and completing the permanent and quality regulation. This precisely sought to avoid the shortcomings that occurred in the housing care program of the victims of the Homeland War. I am taking this opportunity to express my regret that this government and the resolution ministry did not find it necessary to complete this start job, which has far-reaching echoes and publishes the rulebook but is terminating the contract. At the very least, it is the rest of the ministry that should worry about implementation of the housing strategy, when all other work on Posa is being done at the agency anyway. And what results of the project Posa will best be seen by colleagues when you visit the construction site in the Spanish village. The team is more surprised by the illogical attitude of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction towards the location in Sesvedi. For which there is a firmly signed pre-contract on mutual rights and obligations with the city of Zagreb. For which uncontested ownership and fully settled property legal relations, and sensitive financial resources have been committed to preparatory work. It is also surprising that this position of the city of Zagreb, which has been impossible for many years to provide for the needs of the residential building of Pos for the needs of its citizens, and more than 8,000 families, to whom only empty promises are thrown into their faces. And from the dwellings of the Sesvets, nothing. Is it a construction lobby? Or maybe something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36629	Thank you very much. There is a correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36630	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, in a number of incorrect allegations, the one about tendering is the one that is exclusively with the main project. Interestingly, the lady does not even mention a building permit which is otherwise a prerequisite for the conclusion of a contract on works. Namely, here's an example of Spanish. In Spain, road design was agreed, and if there were no data or infrastructure projects at all, it was incredible. And the papers agreed. Furthermore, the contests were mildly said strange. For example, the companies of the same owner did projects and got a job. Which as soon as he can't boast. Spanish, or you mention there Sljeme, the former farm of Sljemen, works arranged, therefore agreed without land, without building permit, without anything. I just want to know what would happen to us in local self-government if we did what you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36631	Thank you. There's a replica of Mr. Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36632	A respected colleague tried to explain to us how to conduct the work properly in preparation and implementation of the Posa. And here's what the State Audit Office found out about that realization. Contracts have been concluded for the production of project documentation before detailed urban plans have been adopted. For the purchase of land, more than the maximum amount provided for in the law is agreed. The construction of buildings was negotiated without land being transferred to the building investor and no building permits were obtained. The implementation of the works was negotiated by the system key in hand based on an idea project which is not allowed. The information specified in the invitation to tender is different from the information contained in the tender documentation. No tenders for the selection of contractors of the same work although the prices at which their execution was offered were more than planned contracts. The contracted value of works does not correspond to the unit prices of the offer, or in most cases the value of the contracted works is greater than the value of the works to be carried out according to the main project. Lastly, construction work control services in terms of significantly higher than the purpose of which the funds are provided have been contracted. Consensus on a direct contract requested subsequently. As a result, since 2000 you have built only 906 apartments. This is why no procedure is conducted in accordance with the country's positive regulations. Neither the construction laws nor the public competition laws, nor the state budget, nor anything. Here's why, that was the result of your work, and you were particularly in charge of that job. Personally, you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36633	The answer to Mrs. Alenka's reply to Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36634	I'm sorry you didn't understand what I was talking about or didn't listen to. I just said that some of these things were not true in that sense I gave Mrs. Auditor to look into the tendering order of documentation. THAT the contracts were concluded and the tender was opened on the basis of the main project. Not based on an idea project. I prepared it anyway when I read it in the audit. I further argue that others, some of the other allegations, are also not correct. As far as detailed plans are concerned, I can tell you that they were ordered and that the contracts were signed after detailed plans were adopted but procedures were conducted before they were adopted. So there's a lot of things that you said here that aren't entirely accurate. And as far as performance is concerned, I must tell you that we have left really for a billion and 300 million contracts. I don't know that the new government has made any new arrangements. What's this about? It's just that those projects we agreed on are being realized. I understand that completely. The dynamics of realization for as long as it takes, it best says the fact that even today they haven't realised yet those contracts that we've negotiated. So now you've been in power for a year and a half. So what's it about? Is this about the inability of this authority to realize something, I only know that our residents in Zagreb will live in buildings that are encouraged by housing, and that Croatian citizens are driving on Croatian highways. And I don't know what you'll leave after four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36635	Thank you very much. We've got to move on. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36636	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mrs. State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. In 2003 it was 4 years of government behaviour of the coalition then, so the abundance of irregularities, and the application of regulations and laws could not have been a coincidence. The ministries functioned as independent pajamas, the audit report shows that the ministry's operations were not under any control or then prime minister and neither was the finance minister who warned about legality here and there. The most irregularities were in the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction where the most funds were spent, where the biggest debts were created and the result was far more modest than expected and announced. No and they are not the words most mentioned in the State Audit report. Although some things have been said before, I still have to do it again. Revenues and expenditures are not realistic and comprehensively planned. The implementation of works in excess of plans and means of security is not in line with the provision of the article, etc. The total expenditure for 2003 did not show part of the expenditure for reconstruction in the war-damaged housing units, etc. The supervision of financial operations has not been carried out and the gaps have not been removed. In some cases, they didn't initiate court proceedings, so I didn't read any further. Since we know whose companies got major jobs, it's not weird. No consent has been obtained from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance at the time to assume commitments under the contracts requiring payment in the coming years. An invitation to tender for which the provision of a lawyer service has been paid has not been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law. 335 dwellings for residential care of Croatian military disabled people are not committed due to lack of construction. Breaking several laws, and especially seen in the encouraging apartment because the contracts were concluded by the system "key in hand" according to the idea project, I continue to argue because some cases I know, not by the main and main project, which leaves a huge space for setting up competitions and manipulations. The supervision and execution of construction works in amounts significantly higher than the means provided for that purpose have been agreed. Labour offers often have nothing to do with the contract because works are agreed at a higher price. At the time, Minister Cacic was perfectly normal that the information in the call for competition was different from the data in the tender documentation. For comparison, it should be said that the then Racan government has rigorously punished local self-government for insignificant failures stemmed from ambiguous laws, while ignoring or playing most of the laws and regulations. In 2002 and 2003, the Director’s Office did not comply with the accounting conditions with customers or suppliers. There it was usually the custom for wheat to be given to announce fax to companies that normally went bankrupt and the wheat to the black market, so the coordination would be problematic. We know what happened to the bakers and how much was under surveillance. That would be hard to do without the blessing of the Ministry of Agriculture. Of 361 customers 121 are in bankruptcy and the accounting status with only 38 customers has been harmonised. So, if that were the case at the pharmacy with which counterpart Pancic compared the period of coalition authority, mortality would be disastrous. The Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises have not applied the procurement procedures prescribed by the Public Procurement Act and the Regulation on the procurement of goods. And the story is repeated in other coalition ministries, public tenders have been avoided and it was easy to get permission for a direct contract by local self-government. At the same time, local self-government had to work slowly respecting maximum existing regulations, but the government is the government. To correct numerous irregularities, the coalition authorities will need much more time than 60 days as requested by the SDP. Clearly, they have not understood the damage done in the period from 2000 to the end of 2003 when they exercised power. A good part of taxpayers' money, as they like to say, was spent anyway in vain. And the amount of this was done on purpose or out of ignorance would be given for a long, long discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36637	We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd do if I could fix the wrong quote from a colleague who's talking about the price being higher than they were planned. I'd be wondering here if Mr. Representative knows what prices they're talking about, I don't think he knows. And I would also say that if the competition showed up the price that is higher than planned then we went to the re-competition after the designer had made a review of the project and presented the version of the project solutions. So I repeat it one more time. All the projects and all the tenders went according to the Law on Public Competition, they were all done on the basis of the main project, and not as you say on the basis of the idea project, with full costs and indeed agreed "key in hand" with the guarantee, guarantees from the bank and with a guaranteed deadline for removing the deficit of two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36639	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36640	Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard to say something special new after so many discussions. But anyway this was a really big job for our State Audit to control and check the business of all the users of the state budget, all the units of local self-government, municipalities, cities and counties, and it's a really big job and commendation for all the work that the State Audit has invested in this report. In any event, the competence of this report also stems from the fact that the auditor lady said that the State Audit Office has 220 or 225 authorised auditors. And really this is a very detailed report and a very precise report. If we look back 10 years and today we can really see that the justification of the large existence of this state office and that, over these 10 years, many of the irregularities that have occurred and that have been present in the business of the users of the state budget have been removed and that, in fact, today, the business of the users of the state budget is at a very different level than it was. However, we must strive for better, we should strive far more rational, far more efficient management. And if we try to analyze some of the mistakes that have been observed here, we need to separate those, so to speak, formal administrative, purely accounting, accounting from those mistakes that actually lead to and which are actually a sign of one irrational, non-economic management and business with state resources. It's those mistakes that are actually legible and visible and that need me to react completely and differently except for what we're making in the report and we're saying it's seen or something else. What I particularly stuck to the eye, to say the same thing is recorded in our opinion of the Committee on Finance, where it is very well stated that no costs were recorded in 2003 and their transfer in 2004, which is why the deficit of the state budget was shown in an unrealistic amount, which is what it was actually pointed to. A billion and a half kuna was transferred in 2004 and that's something we really can't do, we can justify it by different methods of recording, but I think that such a thing is inadmissible especially for a government that needs to bring its budget in 2004 and implement a specific plan through that budget. Also, what I think is really wrong and these are state guarantees. In 2003, we see that according to the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2003, the annual value of new financial guarantees is set at 5 billion and 900 million kuna, and guarantees are issued at slightly more than 9 billion kuna, which means 52.6% more than the fixed amount. And what is particularly painful in this story, that guarantees were given means beyond the criteria of the government's decision on the criteria for granting state guarantees. It is something that is really inadmissible that the government does not respect one decision on the criteria to provide guarantees, and today we must set up investigative committees here to determine whether some committees are days with economic reasons or with some other reasons. These are things that are inadmissible and that do not fall entirely into the order of those mistakes that we can attribute to either methods or accounting or something else, and there is a really different response. Also visible, it is evident that many ministries do not have a record of property. If they don't have a record of the property they're going to own that property. There is one information that actually surprised me, the value of the property is not adequately shown so that the Zagreb Police Administration allegedly has 16 apartments for which it has recorded value, each apartment is worth 0.01 kuna. It's really something that's wrong, and that's where the audit justifiably pointed out and said that it should be coordinated. Then it is visible and it is obvious that there are still contracts in some ministries without public tendering, without respecting its provisions, and there is another phenomenon as far as I can see at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, there have already been 5 or 10% more works involved in the contracts, and even that was not enough, because such a provision of the contract is a question of whether there could exist, but it wasn't enough here either, but after it was actually fulfilled again on the annexes of the contract, meaning the works were negotiated on top of that and without the public competition. That's what they're called. "VTS" works for which I hope we cannot connect them and put a sign of equality with that other shortcut "INT". I don't think that's supposed to be the case, but in any case, that's the kind of thing that I think should be investigated very closely, because in such jobs that are conducted in the country without a public tender where an annex contract is done also without a public tender, there are great opportunities and bribes and corruption and we know ourselves where we stand on a scale of countries known for corruption. It's something where you really need to react. We also have a situation here where we see it in the ministry, I think it's defenses, we have these famous housing contracts in Vrhvorec and Imotski. There were actually dwellings that were being worked without actually needing documentation or building permits, nor were there local permits, and they entered the building. So these things really need to be prevented. But I don't think it's going to be possible to prevent these reports themselves, but what was in last year's report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office we asked for is a better cooperation between the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Audit Office. The state's attorney said he gets it, they watch it, and they actually can't tell from these materials what it would actually be necessary for them to run it. So I think that in some of the following reports that go to the State Audit Office, since it is reviewing the documentation, it can still be competent to see where there are indications on the site and on certain contracts, that there would be a certain or criminal act, and I think it means that, in addition to this, complete material to the State's Attorney's office, it is necessary to say, under the circumstances, that these are the points to which the State's Attorney's Office should react. Because without it, I'm afraid we'll repeat these mistakes in the future. This certainly these shortcomings in the work of the ministries are inadmissible and they must have a name and a last name, they must have a responsible person for what it happened and that story must actually be brought to an end, because in this way we can really say here they were doing, it happened to them and that, the contract they made an annex, but why there was no public tender I think it should still be examined why the public tender was not, and if the law said that this competition should be. And that's why I think it's okay that what the government is asking all the ministries and all the users to manifest themselves, to remove these irregularities, because, of course, next year, we're going to have a report like this, so we're going to see what's actually been done in this year. Once again, the office has made a huge effort. There is a great deal of work behind this report, but in the future we must work to make our ministries and users of the state budget even more rational, even more efficient and that in fact these mistakes that can come down to those formal ones, those accounting ones, and that as little as possible of these mistakes where we can suspect that there is something under the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36641	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Zdravko Sočković's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36642	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mrs. Krasic. Today we are discussing the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004 as well as the report on the audits carried out for 2003. We know that the obligation to submit an annual report on audits carried out and the report on the work of the State Audit Office is based on the provision of Article 11. The Law on State Audit and that they must be submitted to the Croatian Assembly no later than five months after the deadline for drawing up annual financial reports. The audit should also include an evaluation of the activity, economics and efficiency of public spending. First of all, I would like to commend the materials organised by the State Audit Office which has obviously improved its work and efficiency back in the last ten years where significant positive developments in budget users in spending and rationale management of budget funds are visible. It is evident that there have been many failures made in the ministries, which have been established by the revision of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and I will list only some related to the Ministry of Public Works, above all. Incomes and expenditures are not realistically planned and no receipts are recorded in the 2003 financing account amounting to 576 million kuna per approved loans from HBORA to the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. More, expenditure incurred in the same ministry of millions, billions and 63 million and 841 thousand kunas were financed by credit funds. The Ministry agreed more works and services worth billions and 300 million kuna in 2003 for the total planned funding for social promotional housing, which was not provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The rebalancing of the Croatian highway's financial plan has also planned a significant increase in the deficits for a billion and 556 million kuna that was transferred for 2004. For this and such rebalancing did not receive consent from the Croatian Parliament nor was it included in a consolidated plan of revenue and expenditure of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, which is not in line with the provisions of the Budget Law. It is particularly evident that the procedures in the implementation of the programme of socially stimulating housing have not been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Encouragement of Housing, the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on Construction, because the consent to direct arrangements for contractors of works was obtained only after the first selection of contractors. In addition, the contracting of works, the key in hand, was illegally done because the invitation to tender for the selection of contractors, the data from the main and the implementation project, and not the idea project, were to be provided. Furthermore, the information mentioned in the invitation to tender differs from the data in the tender documentation, and very often contracts for the production of the project documentation have been concluded and projects have been completed before spatial plans have been adopted. There have been many cases that no tenders for the selection of contractors of works and services have been cancelled, although the prices at which their implementation was offered were more than insurance and planned funds. It also agreed to monitor the implementation of civic works in a significantly larger way, for the purpose of the means of insurance. For the purchase of land, a significantly higher amount is agreed than the maximum amount provided for in the law. Jobs and payments were also agreed and were not necessary for the implementation of the POS programme. The activities of the implementation of the POS were carried out by the Ministry, not by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, as provided for by the law. On December 31st, 2003, the ministry also showed commitments of a billion kuna 415 million. It is tragic that the remaining obligations relating, for example, to the implementation of projects which, in my opinion, should not have been left behind, financing them and transferring them, which is the return of refugees to the BIH with 11 million 176 thousand. The restoration of the city of Vukovar 9 million 907 thousand. The reconstruction of war-torn housing units with 23 million, the development of the island 17 million and the construction of infrastructure in the area of special state care of 25 million and 478 thousand. The ministry did not show within the 2003 expenditure part of the reconstruction expenditure in the war-damaged housing units of 36 million. As I come from Slavonski Brod, I must point out that in our Ship's settlement where POS apartments were built, in Andrija Hebrang's village there is a great dissatisfaction with the citizens of Slavonski Brod who have taken over the big bells announced by POS apartments. They're desperate and in desperate condition because these buildings, the upper floors, they're sneezing, their noises are falling, they're full of moisture, and the basements are full of water, which, unfortunately, they're getting into, and they're badly done and they're attached to the sewers. And as said before, Mr. Shirac, 38 apartments are not yet finished today. Unfortunately, no one solves these problems today. I particularly resent the government in 2003 for falsely showing the situation around budget deficits. In fact, the government presented to the IMF and the European Community the budget deficit for 2003 4.5%, both IMF and EC, but the entire Croatian public, because the actual budget deficit for 2003 was 6.3%. Finally, we could conclude that the non-compliance with the laws and illegal actions was very much in a large number of ministries and that we can only expect that after this report, the competent services will review many items in this well-timed report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36643	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36644	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office filed a request last year for us to start business on the Croatian Olympic Committee. There were many remarks where we met today one first example that the Croatian Olympic Committee acted under the order of the State Audit for the Financial Report in 2002 and 2003. It is the first institution in Croatia that has admitted, I would say, with my document that there have been irregularities and now they are calling for a new provision of the Croatian Olympic Committee where all operations will be conducted transparently, that every few months they will be published publicly on all activities of the Croatian Olympic Committee. That it wouldn't be allowed to be minus anything less than 3 million kuna in 2003 without knowing where that minus was made. So it was reduced to the current minus in the last year, now it's just over a million kunas, and it's planned to be brought to zero this year. And perhaps most importantly, the most important thing is that the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee made a decision in 2002 and 2003 on the resolution of the responsible persons by the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee on the basis of all the failures and transactions that were read from the State Audit findings on the financing of the EU's 2002 and 2003 accounts. It's the first time anyone's ever done it in Croatia, and that's all I'm reporting for, to commend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36645	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36646	Thank you, dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Krasic, colleagues and colleagues. The 2003 audit report was carried out in accordance with the law and covered a total of 720 entities subject to the State Audit. The report shows that only 7 audited entities or 12.5% received a conditional opinion, and even 80.4%, even 80.4%, and even 80.4% were given a conditional opinion. Some findings of the State Audit Office show that the accounts do not provide complete and timely information on the total public debt, assets, obligations and claims of the State. In addition to the other irregularities covered by the revision, it is noted that most of the guarantees issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 do not meet the criteria set out in the Decision on the criteria for granting state guarantees. The results of the review in my debate on the report on giving, on the audits carried out for 2003 would specifically refer to the part of the Report relating to the Ministry of Trade, Small and Medium Entrepreneurship. The audit report indicates that the legal representative did not make a decision on how to register the results of the census on the basis of the census report, and the funds proposed for expenditure were recorded in the accounts. In the case of payments for the net average results of the work of the employees of the Ministry, it is not possible to comply with the obligations of the Law on civil servants and tenants prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish criteria for the evaluation of officials and subsistence persons, and thus, that basis, the net average results of the work have been established. In November 2003, individual employees were paid rewards for the results achieved in net amounts of 500 to 3 thousand and 500 kuna. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a Regulation on the evaluation of civil servants and deputies, but has not adopted a Regulation on criteria for determining the average results. The revenues from crafts resulting from the Ministry’s solution in the amount of the trades price adopted under the Law on crafts do not have the characteristics of their own income but are the revenues to be shown as revenues made under specific regulations. In all of this, and only irregularities in one ministry are found to have been quite irregular in the work of the observed entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36647	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36648	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Chief Auditor, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I must express my disdain that today, at this time of debate on the revision of the work of the ministry and state administration in 2003, the assembly is practically empty when we talk about the work of the former ruling coalition, the former failures, and they have not long since spoken of any failures that were in the past, so I am truly sorry that they are not present today, so that they face the truth, which is why on 23 November 2003 they lost the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Mrs. Irena Ahel has already made one part of what I was about to say, and that is one small segment of the revision, which refers to the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises. I've come up with my presentation on several parts of the text of that opinion, so I'm going to do it now. In the opinion given by the review, he says: "No action plan has been adopted to divide and support and encourage in accordance with the provision of Article 39 of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. In particular, the plan should cover measures in the event of unintended use of the funds, and uniform procedures against state aid users which do not comply with the commitments undertaken." Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is inconceivable for me that one ministry does not make regulations under which it will provide support, both to a considerable extent and large financial resources, with which the same Ministry has. I must remind myself that, for example, in 2003, 70 million 850 thousand kunas were given support. I must remind you that it is in the period from early 2001 to 2003. The ministry granted assistance of €84 million 560 thousand for 152 entrepreneurial zones. We also have to mention that millions and millions of kunas are given direct support to companies and businesses and all of this without regulations, all of this without criteria and, in my opinion, in practice, in my opinion now when it is not done by the rules laid down when it is not done by some kind of system document, then there is the possibility that these were granted to local self-government units, where depending on the government on the ground, certain units were given larger or smaller funds. Since I was also the head of a unit of local self-government for a time, I can imagine why we couldn't get the funds we wanted because in the middle of that time the Croatian Democratic Community was in power at the state level was in power of the coalition of the parties that is now the opposition. It is normal for funds to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to normally help us build industrial zones because at that time we were practically one opposing option and why help them when they can help those where they are friends, or where, as we saw several times in the debates in the Croatian Parliament, we were directors of companies, members of a group that was then in power, I remind the Viktor Lenac case and all such cases in the Republic of Croatia. This means in one part, in the other part I must also remind myself that in the process of obtaining materials and non-financial assets made by the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises were also a few per se of unfair actions. If it was known that in November 2003 elections were held if it was known that elections were being discussed at least 30 days before that deadline, I could not say with which words I would describe it, a way to enter into the purchase of large financial equipment, the purchase of computer equipment, at a time when elections were practically called and at a time when the election result was already seen that the current minister would no longer perform that duty. Purchases were made without previous opinions whether to go to a public tender or not to go to a public tender, the purchases of books were made very also questionable through documentation, also without the consent to go without a public tender, etc. But the most questionable decision in that period is the decision to give and pay employees, employees of the ministry that is without any regulations, which is without any basis of the meaning of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, without criteria, money is probably shared by some personal assessment, and we know that when personal assessment is that there are no such moments of objectivity, but there is subjectivity. Whether then awarded employees of the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises, those who were closer to the ruling coalition at the time, or were rewarded persons according to some other criteria are very difficult to establish today through this text means the opinions of the revision. There's one more thing I'd just like to mention in the end, and that's trade income. I am very pleased with the fact that today's resolution minister Mr. Vukelic made a decision that reduced the price of the issue of craftsmen, that is, what is stressed in the revision is that since the total cost of issuing a craftsman was about 30 kuna, it was inappropriate to charge 500 kuna, by the meaning of the issue of these documents, and I am glad that Mr. Vukelic has reduced from 500 kuna to 200 kuna and is visible through this audit, the opinion of the audit that they are in the former ruling coalition, the former government, that they have not thought at all about craftsmen, entrepreneurs who each kuna is important and did not think in a way that each kuna that remains uninvolved in bureaucracy and in the documentation needed to produce one crafts radio, one company that would deal with production and which from these sources would then be paid into the Croatian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36649	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would actually refer to the city of Osijek on this entire national audit report for 2003. Here we heard from the predecessors in the debate, a lot of things and a lot of those irregularities that were identified in 2003, and what was happening in the city of Osijek, and let me not only in 2003 but also in earlier years, because in this finding that we have before us is actually repeating irregularities from earlier years. The payment of revenues in the city of Osijek as it was sufficiently speaking of the established audit that the city of Osijek did not, or did not collect revenues of more than 140 million kuna on December 31st, 2003. In that part of the business revenue is not charged 107 million. Among other things, for a communal fee of nearly 45 million, which is interesting when we talk about a municipal fee, it should be said that a procedure of enforcement was launched for about 3,000 and 500 natural persons due to the collection of debts from earlier years. However, against the decision to complete the bond, over a thousand complaints were announced orally, in writing. In the resolution by appeal, the solutions have been changed but only in 200 written complaints. What happened to oral complaints. They were announced on the record, however, no new solutions were subsequently written and these parties were only issued a payment for an amount of debt that is not obsolete. According to the General Administrative Procedure Act, a new solution had to be made in any way. In addition, the City of Osijek has made no decision on the write-off of outdated claims and, in its application record, continues to lead even to amounts for which the objection has been declared obsolete and the original solutions have been amended. For the municipal contribution, the claims amounted to 24 million, renting city apartments of 4.5 million, with no renting measures being taken during 2003. For renting a business space, the city looks for more than 14 million kunas, for city taxes of more than 10 million kunas, for renting public areas of 2 million and 312 thousand kunas. For the lease of public areas, only warnings were sent to debtors without other measures that the city was taking. To compensate for the use of municipal waste dumps, the city leads to claims of more than 3 million kunas, although the city never signed an agreement or contract with municipalities using municipal dumps. For claims on non-financial assets, the city asks for 7 million and 200, for the sale of building land in that part of 2 million and 300, for the sale of flats on a ring payment or purchase of apartments over 4 million. What is an interesting business in the collection of claims from the sale of flats on a roundabout payment for the city is carried out by a business bank. The business bank charges that service 3% of the funds collected. During 2003, the bank charged more than 10.5 million kuna and paid the total amount on the city of Osijek's giro-account. However, the state has thus left 55% of this amount with an explanation that the city has the right to do so on the basis of the available annuity of the bonds for converting foreign exchanges. This explanation, of course, is the explanation of the City of Osijek. On December 31st, 2003. Over 650 debtors in total amounting to nearly half a million euros owed 12 and more monthly meals. However, the City of Osijek has not taken measures to collect these claims as we have seen in previous examples. Another interesting thing. It's that the City of Osijek doesn't even have an analytical record based on apartment sales contracts. Out of total over 11 million kuna incomes from the sale of apartments in 2003, the city purposed to build apartments for social groups of citizens has allocated slightly more than 2 million kunas somewhere. It is precisely the accidental use of the funds from the sale of apartments that is one of the more serious findings of the irregularities of the state audit. On the other hand, the City of Osijek has not been paying funds for the housing of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families for years. In just three years, the commitment was almost 2.5 million kuna and on 25 July 2003, the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Osijek filed a lawsuit against the City of Osijek for outstanding liabilities for the housing of Croatian defenders for the period from January to December 2000 amounting to 660 thousand kuna. As we can see, despite these large claims of more than 140 million kuna, which are largely remunerated but with that legally necessary engagement, the City of Osijek is credited. On 31 December 2003, the old loan amounted to 33 million kuna. The city of Osijek is raising a new 45 million kuna loan. Furthermore, that's not enough either. Credits are being raised through its city companies, so companies that are actually constantly subsidising the City of Osijek are raising the GPP 63 million, sports facilities 22 million, the Centre for Preschool 30 million. Thus, the City of Osijek was brought into a situation of major credit obligations. And what this really means, obligations, accumulated liabilities of over 193 million speaks enough if it is known that the City of Osijek budget is about 300 million kuna, or somewhere around 400 million kuna, but also counting the proceeds from the loan. Furthermore, contrary to the Law on Budget Implementation of the City of Osijek, not only in 2003, but it has been an established practice for all these 12 years since the coalition in the city of Osijek has been redistributing the positions of the budget, and I do not know how many findings of the State Audit are being drawn to this irregularity and these redistributions in the City Headship, so without the City Council are being carried out in millions. Let me also mention various affairs in the State Audit Report, of course not as affairs but as failures in the business of mosquitoes, regarding non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act, on the unlawful conclusion of the contract between other concessions for parking, on the fact that direct contracts provided various properties, car vehicles, office materials, telecommunications equipment. So, a number of irregularities in the business of the City of Osijek that I repeat again are not only in 2003 but also years before everything in continuity is repeated in the State Audit reports. So I can really commend myself on finding the State Audit. However, I wonder why the State Audit if, in spite of repeated irregularities, the State Audit determines the situation, determines irregularities and that the basis of identified irregularities many of which are actually subject to and the criminal application is not happening, and I hope that this debate tonight will also mean a certain turning point, that those institutions that are in the task and which are actually authorised to take measures to ensure that such irregularities are no longer repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36651	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would now like to propose an interruption of the session's work. Part of the MPs want to be at this reception that is related to this World Economic Forum "Transmontana". We've got eight other agents in charge of the debate, a couple of clubs. So tomorrow we'll start at 10 o'clock. We'll have more debates and this proposal we put on the agenda today, but I don't think there's gonna be much debate. So tomorrow, after this debate on this topic has been concluded, we could begin the debate on this point, which we have placed in the agenda relatively early and relatively earlier than usual, starting with a vote on the absolute points of the agenda. Maybe 12, 13 hours there would already be a vote. This would free ourselves from Friday's commitments and close this 13th session. Tomorrow on, they are the first in a daily debate for representatives Marko Turic, Karmela Caparin, Zdenka Babić-Petričević, Ivan Bagarić, Zvonimir Puljic, Marija Bajt and several clubs after a five-minute debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock. The session was interrupted at 18.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36652	Gentlemen, we continue with the session, the report on the work of the State Audit Office and the audits carried out for 2003. Dear Representative Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36653	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable State Auditor. At the very beginning of this presentation, I must draw attention to the fact that a series of irregularities and failures have been detected if... this report is already among the first sessions of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health when the situation in the health system has been debated. So who was warned of the following at the time. Yes, this project, the so-called project. The health system information project at the time of its launch was not sufficiently elaborated and ready for implementation and was launched prior to the provision of the necessary financial resources for the entire implementation period, which will extend until 2008. I note that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to take commitments in future periods has not yet been made, and this is mandatory in accordance with the provisions of Article 37. Budget law. So much for information. Furthermore, this report shows that there was no consistent application of the Public Procurement Act, especially since public procurement procedures were initiated before the budget was provided. Although many health institutions have carried out independent procurement procedures and concluded contracts based on concluded agreements on the transfer of powers between them and the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Health is still responsible for legal action in the procurement process, and nevertheless there is no actual control of the procurement process and the dedicated spending of funds in health institutions. 220 million is also mentioned that only a few days before the elections were given through the agreement, actually concluded between the ministry and the county, i.e. health institutions on financing investments in health institutions and the ministry took over the obligation to invest in these health institutions, whose founders we know counties that are not in the field of special state care. In this respect, the provisions of Article 8 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the And now just to mention the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the IBRD for health system projects by the end of 2003. Only 40% were realised, and out of that 29 million dollars, 11 million were spent on intellectual services. In fact, there was a breach in the implementation of the project due to the fact that the loan contract was not clearly and precisely defined ways to achieve the objective of the project. The plans and programmes that wanted to be financed from the loan were not carefully prepared. Now, just a few things I'd say about HZZO where there's also been a lot of leaks and irregularities. And the Bureau said he didn't conduct a public procurement procedure. That, contrary to the provisions of the Health Insurance Act, a new regulation on orthopaedic and other aids has not been adopted within six months. Furthermore, 46 million were spent on the so-called. Retired pensions. It shouldn't have been done that way. A plan was to be adopted at the level of the ministry, where it is easy for the spent money of colleagues, but where a plan of health and non-health employees will actually be drawn up, and then it will be done and entered into a more serious project, and these money has been taken from primary health care, the consequences that have happened I'm actually leaving to you to think. Here's just a few illegal actions that happened in the health segment. So as this report shows, it was very serious failures and shortcomings in business. I expect that the next review report may include much less significant business gaps, of course, observed by these entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36654	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36655	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me welcome our guests to the gallery following today's debate. Reading this report is really extensive and we can commend it. It's year after year you can see, better and better, and I would especially commend as a woman that 206 women and 67 men work in your offices. So yet here women are ahead and more constructive, and we see that the report is much better than previous reports. I will look back at my presentation on the financial report on the operations of the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. I must conclude at the very beginning of the debate that this information here reminds me of the information provided by our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Andrija Hebrang, on the current clock, and the same information Mr Hebrang provided in a table on the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy. Of course, behind that, he had a media lynch. By reading this data, we find accounting irregularities, irregularities in public procurement and others, as we have heard from previous exposure. The figures in question are several tens of thousands of kunas to a million and then eventually billions. It's interesting that it's in the project to live healthyly ordered and... TV videos and animation logos worth about 162 thousand kunas, this is one figure that is slightly smaller in this report than others, but let us notice compared to others, that these materials are not shown on Croatian TV at all. So the project was to be called "Living and working unfairly". For that money, gentlemen, we could have done 1471 mammography, and then those funds would have been spent significantly in prevention, especially if we knew that breast cancers made 750 to 1,000 women a year. So in the budget, in the implementation of the budget, the revision doesn't look like this 162 thousand kuna figure much, but when we remember how much we could save people's lives, it's really important to prevent cancers. In 2003, the Ministry of Health had expenditure on operating contracts of more than 2 million kuna for 46 persons, all in spite of the audit order for the period from 1998 to 2002, to organise and carry out regular work within the Ministry instead of their trust and payment to external contractors. We heard yesterday and in the presentation of Professor Hebrang that the Ministry employs more than three people than it needs, and we still pay external associates. So I have no doubt that the people who work at the Ministry of Health are incapable. I think so, but apparently they don't get the job. It's embarrassing how the Ministry of Health acted in the last month before the election. In 2003, when they came to power, 200 doctors from the board of directors were replaced, 20 directors, and eventually the coalition government acted as a drunk billionaire. At the end of 2003. The Ministry of Health has contracted 350 million, gentlemen, with a maturity date under the contract for IT equipment from 2004 to 2008. They probably also thought that they would no longer be in power, and those obligations under the co-financing contracts for loans to health institutions amounting to 223 million with a maturity of between 2005 and 2021. The former government has tolerated it, its consent is missing, and it has forgotten that Article 37 applies. Budget law. The information project does not specify in any way how performance will be monitored and assessed, i.e. the achievement of the objectives set out in the projects. At the time of initiation, it was not sufficiently elaborated and ready for implementation and was launched before the basic conditions for its implementation were obtained. Article 37 is re-infringed. Budget law. Although no funding for the project has been provided, contracts with suppliers of equipment and services amounting to around 80 million kuna have been concluded. These figures were millions, and now gentlemen follow billions. The Ministry infringes Article 8. Health care law by taking over investment commitments in general hospitals, the founders of which are not in areas of special state concern. The ministry concludes with counties and health institutions 18 agreements on co-financing of investments in health institutions of billions and 521 million kuna. Of course, again without the government's consent and again with the violation of Article 37. Budget law. Gentlemen, despite the fact that many contracts have been abolished because it is logical that the law is not respected and the current election campaign brings together directors and decides to build a hospital. They say that regardless of the ministry's decisions, they are not interested, they will build a hospital in their county. So what kind of state are we that doesn't respect the hierarchy of government in the Republic of Croatia? These directors, however, are photographed pre-election in my Bjelovar-Belova County and say they will work the hospital. With 75% of the bribes leaving for pay and the rest for material expenses and others. I wonder what they're going to build it with, and a tender for an idea project has already been opened and is being paid to these people at the beginning of the 200 thousand kuna. So, I think it's going to be interesting and the next report. Of course, this report can't go without an analysis of the World Health Reform Bank's 29 million dollar loan. We remember very well the pilot of the project that was to be completed in 2003. Unfortunately, only 39.9% of the funds were made to the end for medical equipment, the removal of pharmaceutical waste, 11 million dollars for advisory services, etc. For not using the loan, we paid a fine of $250,000, and let's remember the education of nurses in Australia. Let us also remember the former director there, Mr. Dr. Oreshkovic, who has now become the director of the EPH Group for the award and who, of course, is not responsible for everything that was going on there. It's someone else's fault. Let us also remember how they paid for consulting services, and I was very good at remembering in the last report where a consultant had 31 days on the official trip. Finally, at the end of 2003, fewer obligations were made than one million kuna and 668 thousand in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Of course, once again disrespecting the law, in the end Mr. Hebrang had arrived to end it and, of course, to pay for that same obligation that existed. Unfortunately, there was no programme in HZZO to determine the number of medical and non-medical employees needed for each medical institution, Mr Hebrang spoke of in the first term. It is also evident that the severances and the purchase of pensions are paid in the amount of 46 million from primary healthcare funds without being planned in the state budget. And finally, the Public Procurement Act is being violated, the HZZO has not conducted the procurement procedure for drugs and orthopaedic aids. It is interesting that despite the proposal of the State Audit since 2002, the control of the procurement procedures and the dedicated spending of funds in institutions that have self-executed procurement procedures has not been done. The tender procedures were annulled by Minister Hebrang's decision in January 2004 after voters told their authorities at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36656	Thank you very much. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36657	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Since yesterday, colleagues have been discussing the 2003 revision of individual ministries. I will discuss the Regional Development Fund, which was adopted in late 2001. I was looking forward to this Fund because I was thinking about something that we were up for back then, about setting up this Fund that should actually be and encouraging a balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia. However, according to the provisions of the Statute of this Fund, there are 3 members who, on a proposal from the Management Board, appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the Management Board shall conduct business, represent and represent the Fund's provisions of Article 14. The Statutes are prescribed a way of making a decision of the Administration. In accordance with the provisions of the Statute, the President of the Administration shall take decisions with the prior opinion of the members of the Management Board. Since the founding of the Fund in 2001, the Administration has made up only one member, president of the Administration, instead of three members. The President of the Administration himself made decisions on behalf of the Administration which is not in accordance with the provisions of Article 14 of the addressed Statute. Since the new institution has been working transparently since the beginning that the coalition government has repeatedly repeated that formula, or their parole, under the provisions of the statutes, the administration has three members, other than the chairman of the administration, the remaining members are not appointed, for all decisions by the President of the Administration under the provisions of the statutes, a preliminary opinion by other members of the administration is required. In addition to the president of the administration appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the remaining 8 employees were admitted into a working relationship without carrying out the tender. Compensation funds for employees' costs amounting to 275 thousand kuna, spent on official travel seminars and courses, are not fully spent in accordance with the Decision on terms of use of official personal cars, mobile phones, regular airline lines, business credit cards, means of representation, and means of official travel in part of the approval of official travel abroad, use of business credit cards and mobile phones. Here, on these feet lies a new fund for regional development. Since it was thus founded, it was still done from 2001 to 2003 by party or party membership, the following happened. Out of the 120 million kuna planned in 2003 to foster regional development, the least resources were allocated to Istria County, 3 million and 80 thousand kuna, and the highest of Vukovar-Srijem, which is normal. The Fund has only allocated funds to the Primorje-Gorski County in the amount of the right to funds, so it is known who is the mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County, a gentleman from the SDP. The Lika-Senjska Undeveloped County, which had the right to 7 million kuna, is set at 4 million kuna while Bjelovarsko-Belogorje County, which had the right to 6 million kuna and 240 thousand, is granted 10 million kuna. This is what's called transparency, this is what's done by law, this is what's said to be fair. So here's this Regional Development Fund if it goes on like this then it won't be what we wanted it to become an institution that has to think about every part of the Republic of Croatia. That's part, part two, you keep saying something left by this government, I'm going to make a short comparison that's visible from this review of reality and real data that she left us in late 2003 and in early 2004, yesterday, much richer and more developed Croatia was said. Yeah, if we could just make a comparison of 2000. The Croatian government was in charge of $9 billion in foreign debt and in 2003, in early 2004. 26 billion dollars in debt. So anyone who is even slightly unprofessional if they are in debt and built, then they could really build Croatia from day to day, but for whom, who will pay back these debts, they always say every debt comes to payment and that debt of 16 billion dollars is not the former coalition government who owes us only to us but also to our young gentleman who looks at us and follows us today from the gallery of the Croatian Parliament. You boast of something that doesn't belong to Račan's government, or Sanader's government, which is the construction of highways and especially highways Zagreb – Split, I remember well that this is a 1971 project, and I remember well that the loans for 1971 for the Zagreb – Split highway, but with these money, however, it wasn't the Zagreb-Split highway built, it was the Belgrade-Bar railway. However, gentlemen, I'm going to have some data here now, so we're going to make comparisons for 26 billion dollars, which is also how many highways were made by 2000. By 2000, the Zagreb-Krapina Motorway 46 km was built, Slavonski Brod-Velika Kopanica 28 km, Zagreb – Sv. Helena 12 km, Varazdin – Gorica 28 km, and the tunnel of St. The deadline and every man recorded it on that day as a historic day in the construction of the future and development of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the highways that I had already titled by 2000, reconstruction of the Zagreb-Split 200 km road was carried out. Half highway tunnel Učka-Pazin 23 km, Karlovac – Rijeka 39 km, with several tunnels that are 62 km. So gentlemen from 2000 to today with so much external debt could be done much more than it was done, and it's easy to be in charge of the expense of others. Yesterday, several times apart from the highways made from 2000 to 2003, it was also about POS apartments. So this morning, if the Croatian press doesn't write the truth, then I guess I'm not telling the truth either, so I'm just going to quote something that says this morning in one Croatian newspaper about POS's apartment because yesterday it was said that people live in POS apartments and Croatian roads are driven by Croatian citizens, all those who come to the Republic of Croatia. Four construction companies were blacklisted by the Real Estate Agency for poor construction of works on buildings from an encouraged housing programme. In fact, so far 300 commercials have been received for the same number of apartments, almost 15% of the so far built 2003 apartments from POS. This way, if all of us did so, if we were all in debt and in the name of the Croatian state were to finish our jobs in this way, then Croatia would turn into something that we cannot allow. Statistics show that there's something going on, but if something's done, it's got to be, it's not just about quantity, it's about quality. If the coalition government can boast about the construction of the road and POS's apartments, then I don't know what the statistics do every day that bring the blacklist, not just today, not just about the apartments of POS, but also about the quality of the construction of the highway from 2000 to 2003, I'm saying I'm not an expert in that, but I'm reading the data that is every day in the press and I'm going to keep going. According to Vjesnik's information, the APN has had to categorize the remarks most of which are called hidden defects, and this is nevertheless the shortcomings observed after moving into POS's apartments and during the use of building exploitation, roof leaks, parquetlifting, basements, sneezing of the entrance doors, apartments on gallery type buildings, problems with boilers or radiators. Gentlemen, if the profession called from day to day is professional and quality, then you must deny this not only in the Croatian press but you must go to the scene and see where you are wrong. So here, these are about this review of some comparisons that could be longer if I had more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36658	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36659	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I would correct the incorrect allegations of nine billion debt and 25 billion debt. In fact, I'd like to point out that in 2000, it was a dollar that was then over eight wholes and something. So when we multiply 9 billion by 8 wholes and something gets 72 billion kuna. And 25 billion when we multiply with today's rate of six and something then we get somewhere around 120 billion. So the difference is all about 50%. The only question is what we express debt in, whether in dollars or in kunas. The next correction is not tied to the highway, on the Zagreb-Split highway. I'd say we're back in '72. After '71. and we couldn't drive with all the credits we paid for the construction of the highway and that today, as you know, we can drive on the highway and on the highway to Split. It's a fact-finding fact. The third would point out that the press is only known to be true. Therefore, I am quite sure that all the allegations that are in the press are quite accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36660	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36661	Mr. President! Let me look at the State Audit Report for 2003 in a way from the position of the representative who listened carefully to all the speakers yesterday and actually looked back at some of the speeches that we could hear in this House and then give some of my vision and overall conclusion. I would first refer to yesterday's presentation of a respected fellow Stazic, who speaks very skillfully in the Assembly, but his skills were indeed in one other direction yesterday, so vice versa. On several occasions, Mr. Columbo said that it was one of the most useless jobs we do here, we're finding out about the situation, we're making this report available to institutions that need to continue to exercise their jurisdiction, however, as it all comes down to essentially useless work. I have all the transcripts of yesterday's speeches here so I know exactly what I'm talking about. However, with no word from counterpart Stazic, he did not refer to irregularities and crime and all that is not good, which was done by the government supported by Mr Stazic. My colleague Leko very wisely concluded yesterday that he would not argue at all. There's no need for him to discuss it, he's got a debate but he left her, he doesn't want to talk about her at all. At the same time, he switched to a very interesting discussion about a student who keeps falling for the exam and who in no time receives a passing grade. I would really comment on it about like this. The truth this government until 2003 was really a picture of a bad student who was regularly in the exams and didn't get a passing grade and actually a lot of work and births that he did bad, he did wrong, he did it illegally and this report is proof of it. When it comes to the stand of a respected colleague, Korenik, he spoke in the light of 4K. My colleague, Korenik, has rooted in his government's camouflage, but he has made a very skillful transfer to the accusations of this government. Well, that's interesting. So, when it comes to the 2003 Report and all the irregularities that happened there, people went to discuss the work of this government and talk about some kind of public procurement law without even looking back at how the laws were then, and the applicable laws under which they were to work and how the Government did not respect them at the time. So from some strange defensive to some strange transformation we switch and move on to attack I'd say not leading worry whether we've made an offside or it's consistent with the game. That's why by 2003, this government had when we were talking about grades between, as far as I don't know, the ministry was 18, it had more than half the negative grades, and actually this report shows it. Therefore, she was a bad student and the voters said about her in the parliamentary elections what they think and rightly. And his, and his colleagues, the Koreniki speech was approximately and the conclusion was, let's forget it, let's adopt the report. But my colleague, Korenika, and all my dear colleagues, we have nothing from keeping under the rug, and we haven't solved the problem that exists. A very thorough colleague Arlovic spoke yesterday about a new methodology for conducting the revision but nothing about the methodology I would say the work, the illegal work of the government which he also supported. And I really appreciate my colleague Arlovic. As a good father, he set himself up with a student who does not carry out his assignment, who makes a multitude of incompetences, mistakes, but he found some justification for him, like I don't know, it's the result of ignorance, non-disclosure, etc. As a student, it's the teachers, the textbooks, but not him. But fellow Arlovic, as a good father, also stood up for other children, not only his own. There were IDSs, and other than SDPs and HSS, etc. And so he took care of them all. In accordance with the so-called With the PP or propaganda programme, SDP's representatives mainly commented on everything and everything about the PP again. Take it, take the report and forget it again. I say, put it under the carpet and forget it. They acted about as in the Middle Ages when plagues appeared. Then it was a rule to run away as far away as possible and don't come back. That was the answer to the condition they were doing. When it comes to the esteemed colleague Church, he looked back on the education that this government allegedly abolished undergraduate education for individual employees, which is very signifying. I'm in the middle of something, too. I think that's what you were talking about, colleagues, is in one replica you were talking about. And I stand for education, and that's good. But it would have been better, much better if your government hadn't changed people according to party membership, and by party membership, it would have been better, and then these people very often don't have enough knowledge, and then they need special education. And it is understood that regular education as such in any business comes in handy. When it comes to fellow Raven, he has reached the law of fighting. I don't know, he got his hands on a fight and it was his main preoccupation of his relationship with this law, according to this report. Dear Raven, the fight is a fight but the greater damage has caused the Croatian people illegal business than any fight, so your government has been fighting since any fight because this fight occurred from the clear sky and has been reflected most in the pockets of Croatian citizens or taxpayers. Do you agree? I'm sorry if I don't say your name right, but I think Alenka Chichin-Shain was really on an impossible mission yesterday. Mr. President, she was doing a literal audit. She saw a review report just like it was sad, pathetic, and actually with an evaluation really under every criticism she picked up some of her own, I don't know the material available to her as proof that it wasn't like that, so she brought it to our dear auditor Sim Krasic yesterday and put it in front of her, and I would say "pitoski" somehow washed her hands and forgot that really our auditor wasn't even a confessor. She's an auditor, she realizes the situation, and she's who she is. The tasks of this government are to dress, wash, revive, rehabilitate the dying. So in four years, you managed to put this country in a position to make $15 billion in four years. To increase, not reduce, unemployment. That the rating is as it is and in fact the Croatian government is now doing everything and successfully working with the aim of increasing exports, reducing unemployment, stabilising the state and resuscitating it in every way. In 4 years of your reign you have succeeded in really doing everything you can not go forward but back. The task of this government and here I agree with you that this is all a certain way of amortizing, yes, to actually correct all these mistakes and I believe that it is on the right path to do so and I wish her every good. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36662	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36663	Thank you very much. Well, I'm only going to correct one incorrect allegation, which is that the people quoted here are running away from this problem as they used to run from the plague. In fact, we're very close. We're getting closer and closer because we're not running because you know what can happen? Yes, long before you and we expect to actually have to go back to the government or power. So we're not running away.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36664	The second amendment. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36665	Here's what I'd do is I'd just fix a little inaccuracies about employment and unemployment. In fact, she would mention colleagues that in 2002 unemployment decreased by 30,000 unemployed. From 2003 to 2002, unemployment decreased by 50,000 people. In January 2004, unemployment was at the same level as in January 2005, with an increase in the first 6 months of 2004 until mid-year, followed by a decline to 1 January 2005 which will be the following in figures according to statistics that there were 317 thousand unemployed in February to today be 330,000 unemployed. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36666	Thank you. Replica first. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36667	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The review of colleagues, Bagaric, and the corrections of the debate through the glasses and the dioptry of HDZ, is not interesting to me. I respect them, but they're not interesting. I would still like to have discussed how this is constantly growing public debt without the modernisation of Croatian railways and thus lagging behind in development and Croatian ports in competition with Trieste and other Adriatic ports Then I was curious. [[Intruder: Not with hand to lift but with a tile.]] how is it that we only realize that the debt is growing, and it is not doing anything but again in 2003 with 40 discussions in the Croatian Parliament, and we are not asking the Government to tell us that it will review the conversion and privatisation of Croatian banks. [[Intruder: Not by hand, tile.]] That's what I was talking about and I'm going to talk about whether my colleague Bagaric's review was positive or negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36668	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36669	Thank you, Mr. President. Public debt, it's true, public debt, will you continue? Public debt is really growing, but it's absolutely slow compared to what you've done. If Croatia had total debt for 4 years of work and with debts transferred from the former country at the end of all this, until the arrival of your government of about $9 billion and some billion, and if you took $15 billion in 4 years, I really don't believe that you loved Croatia so much. But that says how incompetent you were. Therefore, Croatia must now stop the debt first and it succeeds. But what do you expect? In four years, the government of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has paid back the debt that you've made and actually maintained, and I don't know about social peace and all that you've advocated. Well, that's impossible. It can't do that. I don't know either. I don't know. I don't know. Croatia does what it can, does the best it can, and this time the debt is slowed down. And everything else builds, works, life didn't stop Croatia. In fact, there was a lot to be expected after this kind of debt. That didn't happen. Fortunately, it is good for both you and us, or for all of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36670	Thank you. Second replica, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36671	Kolega Bagaric says this report proves that Racan's government was doing badly, so it is bad enough that it built the Zagreb-Split highway even if part of the costs for the construction of the highway were passed on to 2004. A colleague, Bagaric, says it is also bad that Racan's government has found 350 thousand unemployed and another 150 thousand who have worked and have not received salaries, leaving only 307,000 unemployed who today are 330,000 notes. It is also bad that it abolished indifference, so the payment deadline, for example, according to HZZO was 125 days after the end of Racan's term of office, and today it is 350 days. Well, when Mr. Bagaric is capable of the success of the government, when I said yesterday that the debates in this House are useless, I can only conclude that I have clearly been anticipating his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36672	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36673	Thank you, Mr. President. To what you said, I can only say the following, and here neatly we have that document, a valid document. It's a state audit report, and it's what it is. I was talking about him. It is primarily about him, which points to the non-compliance of the law, to the violation of existing laws, to everything that is illegal, and to what a government should not do. The money from the state budget is public money, so it belongs to all the citizens of this country. He needs to be dealt with legally, thriftfully, rationally. That's not what you were doing. It's me. That's what I'm talking about. That money should be treated as one's own. You didn't do it. That's what I'm talking about. On the other hand, on the basis of all that you're talking about and the problems this government is facing, I'm saying that that debt stands for the last 15 billion dollars. Because no one will ever be in debt to an ally. And the ally is someone you work with together. Therefore, you are responsible for me and for the problems we have now on our way to the European Union because otherwise Croatia would talk if there were no external debt as it is. You're surprised at that, but that's how it is. Therefore, I conclude. I was talking about the State Audit report. And this data you're talking about seems to be all your data. No one knows about them or people feel that information or live better or live better because of that data unless they were just as aware as you were saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36674	And the third replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36675	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to replicate to Mr Bagaric in a work where he wonders that Mr. Stazic did not look at any of the problems raised by the main state auditor in his presentation yesterday. In terms of public procurement, employment and so on. And so on. However, I must say that yesterday, last night in the main Croatian television journal, the main thought, the light motive of Mr. Stazic's entire presentation, and I would say, he said the following. We're making progress every day every day. Apparently Mr. Stazic watched several times the movie Do you remember Dolly Bell. I looked at him once, he must have looked several times.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36676	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36677	I thank Mr. President, I didn't watch the diary last night, but it's only proof that in this country between the public very often the media is standing here in the Parliament. And the media space has only been chosen. You can say whatever you want, you can do as much as you want, but the media gets through their favorites and they're their speakers. Therefore, one of the favorites is Mr. Stazic, he can say whatever he wants and it will be transferred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36678	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality is canceling the session today. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36679	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. Taking note of the State Audit report for 2003, I will argue at the very beginning that during these 10 years of the audit and what reports are coming before parliamentary deputies, no doubt progress has been made. This explicit claim does not refer to the number of irregularities in bad decisions, not rationality in spending budget money. On the scale of the content that you have so far contained. It's about the fact that we have the opportunity to discuss in front of the public the negatives and the damages that come from them. THAT this possibility is unquestionably unquestionable, that no one can and does not question, that, in the need of discussion, we should not argue as when the debate concerns an initiative to form investigative committees. This is undoubtedly democratic progress and I am convinced of effective therapy for the prevention of such procedures and such phenomena. However, this year's report, especially in the section relating to the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, falls back from the usual level of irregularity, and I would say in a slightly more casual tone that provides an exceptional romantic development of exciting complications for modern crime literature. Because if it is justified for this ministry to claim that the supervision of the financial operations of the Ministry has not been carried out and the deficiencies identified by internal control of the reconstruction of schools and investment in islands have not been removed. It gives the contracted construction of a sports hall in Osijek worth 60% but of the usual total value of 11 million 700 thousand kuna. In some cases, unarranged construction works have also been recognised. Of course, by this ministry. In some cases they did not initiate court proceedings, against contractors for the collection of claims, for advances given in earlier years. That the Ministry agreed more works and services worth around one billion and 300 million kuna in 2003, which was not provided with a budget incentive of 325 million kuna. That's 20% of the budget transfer. And the government's agreement on the Minister of Finance's proposal to take commitments under the contracts that require payments in the coming years has not been obtained either. That the tender for which the provision of the law on public procurement has been paid is not carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law on public procurement, i.e. That a contract of direct choice is concluded by a contract or by a selected contractor. That consulting projects and legal services related to the adaptation of space in Vlaška, performers selected against the rules of payment made by the projects have given up, and the value is 4 million kuna. Payment of services to a commercial company at the Zagreb Fair of choice of performers against regulations, worth 164 thousand kuna. That certain procedures in the implementation of the Posa have not been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Encouraged Building, Public Procurement and Construction Act. Then out of all this, this irony of mine is quite appropriate or even too mild. In the review report in this ministry, however, several episodes have been particularly impressive and illustrating to me. One of them is the involvement of a law firm for legal advisor services. First of all, the question is why the ministry that employs graduate lawyers, architecture engineers, construction and engineering needs to hire legal advisers outside the house. Is it because of some specialist job his employees don't and don't know how to do. However, the contract concluded with this law firm finds that the Ministry of Public Works of Reconstruction and Construction has contracted services related to the submission of tenders, the construction of tender documentation and the assembly of the necessary contracts. So out of the house, there is a contract for the execution of jobs that the ministry's officials have done successfully in a number of cases. To carry out these jobs, the law office was paid in 2003. 345 thousand kuna. I'm going to unnecessarily spend 345 thousand kuna on a job that the Ministry could only do, as it has done many times before. In particular, there is doubt when it is known that the service provider is selected by direct contract, without invitation to tender. But the culmination of absurdities is in the fact that an expensively paid service provider performed the tender he staged against the Public Procurement Act. So his work should not have paid for the invoice at all was to be returned, because the delivery service was a shear of goods. However, he was paid 345 thousand kuna, and with this contract signed with this artist was not a time limit but a permanent one. So the services would continue to be still, if there hadn't been a change of government. The picanity of this story related to the adaptation of the former military hospital in Vlaška, Zagreb, to business space. For the purposes of the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Science and Technology has not stopped this episode of legal services, it continues. Only one bidder appeared in this competition against the law and paid dearly. The government's consent for exceptional procurement has been requested and the government has given this consent to an amount of 87 149 569, so 87 million kuna without additional value tax. But that decision, taken in September 2003, was annulled by the minister in November 2003, which was precisely the 24th of November 2003, the day after the elections, the day when it was known that someone else would manage the investment and the minister would then give up the realization of the investment. However, 4 million kunas already spent have definitely failed, or since the State Audit has carefully formulated, 4 million kunas have not been spent on purpose. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Budget Law is responsible for the legality, purpose, efficiency and economic availability of budgetary resources. So what now? After these reports of the State Audit and our discussions, following numerous examples such as this with the adaptation of the Military Hospital in Zagreb, some of my colleagues have desponsibly concluded that they will go all without any sanctions. I don't agree with that. I think that sanctions have already been effective, and on 23.11.2003, when the decision of the electoral body made it impossible to continue this same level of imaginative law-playing and irresponsible conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36680	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36681	It is incorrect to conclude that the claim that significant progress has been made is not related to the quality of the work of the audited entities, but to our ability to discuss it. It's incorrect. We have been able to discuss it before, and we have always been able to discuss it, and the claim that significant progress has been made in the quality of the work of the audited subjects should be read exactly as it was written. Significant progress has been made in the quality of the work of audited entities compared to previous periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36682	Thank you. And a second correction, a respected representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36683	I thank you, Mr. President. Here's how you'd fix the incorrect quote "for some special business." Dear colleague, this has really been a specialist job, because such a job has not been done in the Croatian state since it was created. So far in Croatia we have never concluded a public private partnership agreement. This was supposed to be that kind of contract. And let me remind you of something else, the pictancy of this story as you say lies precisely in the 19 million debt that the previous government has left the HDZ government to the coalition government and to which it is packed, and that is why it has joined the business of precisely this kind of public private partnership model. Unfortunately, the colleague who was briefing you about it didn't meet you until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36684	Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36685	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I will support the report on the audits carried out in 2003 because I believe that it has been done in quality and content and on the basis of legal provisions, noting that 273 are employed and of which 225 authorised auditors have done this job, taking into account that their salary is 5 thousand kuna and that in that part we have to do something about it. Since many of my colleagues have talked about a series of findings within the State Audit, I will talk about local self-government, i.e. the area covered in Požega-Slavon County. The report of the State Audit for 2003 in the city of Požega found that some of the irregularities from 2002 were repeated and new irregularities were made in a larger form, resulting in pooring of the city budget and spending beyond the law. In the audit, the revision that was to be found on the City Council and on several occasions at the City Council's request despite these requirements was not delivered to the City Council so that it was not possible to comment on the procedures and to find out what was in the State Audit report. So that the citizens of Požega and Požega are not informed about the fact that they are in a position to make budgets available to private persons and stakeholders with unnecessarily and harmful borrowing practices, to carry out the tasks performed by private persons, the task of building public buildings for which no building permit has been drawn up, the allocation of funds from duties in a business bank, etc. Also, several years of skipping and non-informing city representatives and citizens in implementing the programme of state utility, maintenance of municipal infrastructure, multi-annual failure of building of buildings and regulated municipal infrastructure, not by adopting a plan for the purchase of goods, services and its alignment with the plan and possibilities, by negotiating the implementation of works from year to year without prior obtaining building permits, continued by providing funds from the budget for loans to private persons, thus financing private and not public needs. The city of Požega is in debt for 10 million kunas unnecessarily. It was not under the Law on the Communist Economy, i.e. the choice of performers did not go through public competitions as prescribed by the law but was limited by the collection of offers which made it possible to set up competitions. The bonds were issued as a means of insurance of business although most jobs were paid by a pre-delivery contractor selling bonds to banks before the works even started and thus came to an asset that was not actually earned. That's why the city's account was in trouble because the banks were removing funds from the city's accounts and the mayor was doing nothing. The cost of intellectual services in the city of Požega in 2003 was 2 million 789 thousand and 420 kuna. One part of the funds went to the same company that designed and supervised the works, and one part in the media presentation of the people to be promoted within the city. Also for the New Year's welcome, in 2003 there were no competitions, funds were received by a member of the Headship who organised the welcome through his firm. The mayor of the city signed contracts with one contractor before the procurement procedure was completed, so in 6.11.2003 contracts for two streets in the city and the Competition Commission made the final decision on 11.11.2003. It was illegally built and some other streets, and I'm going to mention the Industrial Street in Požega, there was no construction permit or any documentation, and there was no contest to be called. And that investment wasn't even in the City Council plan. The tender was scheduled for a 15-day delivery deadline and it was 8 million kuna, which according to the law was far different conditions. Then, although the tender and contract said there was no advance on the job, an advance was made on what was also found in the audit report. For payment insurance, the bonds that have been cashed have been issued. This street of the city of Požega, although paid in the 10th month which we can see in the 2003 official newspaper of the town of Požega, requires the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take a 5 million kuna loan even though it was paid out of loan 16.9.2003. The coalition government agreed at the 11th month and the loan was taken by the Slavonska Banka, with the loan's assets being spent on purpose. Loans were also granted by favouring the contractor, so loans from the city budget amounting to 8 million kuna and 600,000 kuna, and the funds were allocated to the bank because of the 7% interest interest-based urban headship at the head of the mayor's office and on his proposal made decisions on short-term loans on several occasions, always one and the same companies with interest now of 5% and not 7% as it was carried out at the business bank, so all five loans were requested and an extension of the deadline and the loan-back instrument was not agreed on what we see in the audit finding. By the end of that current year 6 million kuna and 560 thousand kunas were returned, through breakthroughs after completed and contracted works and certified temporary situations, which means that by lending and opting for competitions and winning competitions. So that the Public Procurement Act was not respected, it was not followed by the procedures implemented and the law in force. What I would say with these loans is commendable, that long-term loans were for young entrepreneurs and women. However, the Enterprise 2 programme. However, the story is not finished here because the mayor of Požega did business and professional information for entrepreneurs until April 5th of this year, where he was the sole founder of his company and member of the management and represented the company individually and independently, and this company was doing business and professional information for entrepreneurs where in the competition of the Ministry and the City of Požega in the "Evening List", all information was said to be obtained in the city of Požega or the business centre of the mayor, so that through the Ministry of crafts, the small and medium enterprises received 105 thousand kunas in return for the program to work, but also, behold, Mr. Mayor was also the president of the city's commission who recommended business programs to obtain loans. In the city of Požega, illegal actions were also carried out in late 2002 and continued in 2004 by abuse of positions and powers. In fact, it was dealing with over 20 benchmarks that served as a means of ensuring payment, and they were misused at the expense of the city of Požega because they were illegally completed and charged for outstanding work in advance and through an agreed amount and for already paid works. For example, the town of Požega opened a tender for the performance of works of the city museum in Požega without the necessary documentation. The contract was concluded with one company, always the same, which was more expensive for a million and 300 thousand kuna than the next bidder and the contract was signed on 29.10.2003. The papers never started, because the tender was annulled on 29.12.2003, but the mayor of Požega gave a bianko note which the potential contractor immediately met at an amount of 2.5 million kuna and cashed in the Slatinska Banka, and it came to the payment of the town of Požega in 30.6.2004 which means the tender was cancelled, the works never started, the job was charged, and under the pressure of the city museum was to be replaced, however the board did not allow. And I would eventually ask the municipal state attorney's office in Pozega which I believe must finally be against illegal actions to initiate proceedings and sanction these illegal actions. There are a lot of facts that have the characteristics of illegal action and the characteristics of violations of the law, and all judicial authorities need it, especially the State's Attorney's Office, to initiate a procedure for sanctioning illegal acts in order to prevent the future from being the abuse I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36686	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36687	Thank you very much. Well, I was actually expecting a cross section as my colleague Byte announced about the state of spending budget money per unit of local self-government mainly in the Slavonian region, but obviously now we've been listening to one play, or dealing with a political rival, and the proposing of what should be emphasized, not so long ago won Mrs. Byte in the local elections, and we all know that Požega is a small town and that all of what Mrs. Byte was saying is more or less known. In fact, I don't think this debate about the State Audit is good for us to run them in this time, and it would be ideal if we could get rid of at least that unnecessary part of the political charge when we're discussing these things. Because I actually think that everyone, both the public and those who should listen to us, would actually take us more seriously. I expected, at the very least, that my colleague Byte would take another municipality or city in Slavonia, say where the mayor of HDZ is, and that he would read something from this state audit, but obviously here we are ahead of the elections, so there should be a future political rival trying to differentiate in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36688	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36689	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry it's 10 minutes, so I haven't been able to talk about anyone else. But I did stay in a town that I know a lot more than the mayor lets the review work on the city council, which I think is the obligation of all cities and municipalities and counties to go through the city council. If I had a chance to talk to the city council, I wouldn't be talking about it here today because there was no chance because I first found the audit here. And I wasn't talking about any opponents, I respect the legality and the mayor of the election, but about the illegal actions that I pointed out, and which were found in the report of the state audits, so that no personal rivalry is either a political campaign, because unfortunately it's a fact that I too would prefer that the city of Požega is not burdened with these findings that I was talking about, because it's my city that I love and that I want to make progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36690	Thank you. The second replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, colleague Byte has the right to speak at the Croatian Assembly on the subject of how she sees it. Unfortunately, for the sake of the public, I must say that the view of Pozega is through the dioptria of the partnership, or another party. So, she didn't just happen to be chosen Požega. Mrs. Byte is instigating and working in Pozega, and there's no man here to talk about, so the public needs to know. It was a pre-election event for the City of Požega, so it was important to present only the Požega case, not the principle of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36692	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36693	Thank you very much. I would answer to Mr. Leca in that section if there were not many ministers spoken of and many people discussed here at the level of the State Audit. However, I did not speak in the light of the upcoming elections but presented facts. Because "Evening List" published a contest that I was talking about, and all that I was saying was unfortunately supported by State Audit and Documentation. I'm just asking that the institutions of the Croatian state are working, that they worked a year before, that they were getting better every year, and I believe that next year there will be less damage than before, this year, this year we're talking about in 2003, and that in time, the same story that we're going to talk about in a year when we get the State Audit report for the City of Požeg. And I don't want it to happen again anywhere else but to work in accordance with the law. And since the State Audit, there has been a lot of improvements in work and local self-government and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36694	Thank you. Third replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36695	Dear Mr. President, no matter what we think or speak, it is nevertheless an attempt to disqualify the political rival roughly on the eve of the upcoming local elections. And even worse, this kind of speech is a direct interference between political authority or politicians and an attempt to influence judicial authority, or the State's Attorney's Office. It seems to me that it wasn't a practice to teach the State's Attorney's Office from the level of political speech of Parliamentarians what to do, how to do, what to do, what to do, and how courts should judge. It seems to me that if we introduce this, we will lead to the destruction of that necessary separation between political, legislative and judicial authorities. After all, all those attempts that so far existed to disqualify Mr. Mayor Požega have been rejected in places where it is considered, and for which it is not the Croatian Parliament that is in charge but someone else. And another thing, counterpart Byte said that the mayor hadn't decided to put the findings of this audit at the City Council session. I'd like to remind her it's not the mayor's business. The City Council agenda is determined by the president of the City Council, not by the mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36696	Replicate response, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I'm sorry, too, but I spoke based on the fact that the State Audit was found. I didn't add anything. As far as the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, if I remember correctly, we have concluded each time after the State's audit report that the State's Attorney's Office has acted on the findings found in the State Audit. I didn't go beyond that, and I didn't mention the judiciary or get into that part of it. Only during and after the conclusions that this Croatian Parliament has always made to the authorities of the Croatian state to act on the findings of the audit, although many of your benches have said that they do not believe, even from the benches of my colleagues, that they do not believe that something effective will happen. But I believe in the rule of law and I stand for it, these 15 years in politics, and I believe that Croatia will be a legal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36698	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36699	Well, definitely, this speech by Mrs. Maria Byte today was a pre-election campaign and a fight with someone who, Mrs. Byte, beat you to death in Požega. Which means that the citizens of Požega made it perfectly clear that the people who worked for them and those who were dealing with politics alone. The moment you violently brought down power in Požega because you couldn't stand that you weren't in Požega in power, and now you're not even a citizen. You've filed over 20 criminal charges against Mayor Zdravko Ronk. All criminal charges were denied because they were completely unfounded. I have to say that it really wasn't in this and it's not good when it's treated like you said. You, therefore, made it very clear that you invited the State's Attorney's Office to deal with Mr. Ronko and his irregularities in the City of Požega. The irregularities that have been made here by the State Audit are something that will be delivered to the State's Attorney's office, but the fact that your problem is that in the last year not only Mr. Ronk, but many others, even some colleagues sitting here with me in the bench, have been persecuting in public, pinning on them the label that thieves, criminals. Unfortunately for you, this State Audit report doesn't confirm that. And that's your problem, and that's why you've been trying all the time to put pressure on all those who could possibly and should confirm it to confirm it, but fortunately in this country, all the bodies and the judicial authorities are working according to the law. And if there's no basis, I hope he won't listen to your political instructions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36700	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36701	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs. I mean, I'd like to make claims, not political ones, but I'll take that part. I've never muddyed anyone, and I've always told the truth. Always and only the truth. And as for the fact that HDZ in the City of Pozega was beaten to death, it wasn't. We've got seven councilmen and two parties are in the City of Požega. SDP and HDZ. And we accept the legitimacy that the SDP received in the City of Požega and we tried to be constructive council members and to find a State Audit report on the City Council. However, you have now expressed inaccuracy. Mr. Ronka, as far as I know, was filed with a single criminal application by the Croatian government's commissioner when he was struck by the bonds that were hidden and dealt with until then. It then went to the State Attorney's Office with one single criminal application which was not rejected but was in the process of the work of the State's Attorney's Office which I would not wish to interfere with or influence. And I would also say what I have been trying to do for 15 years in this Croatian Parliament that politics is moral if moral people are political. I will continue to represent it and demand that politics be as moral as any other business, but that we go on our own. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36702	Thank you. And the fifth replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36703	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Maria Byte of course took a picture of the situation in the City of Požega out of her corner. Of course, I join all those who have said that an unquestioned political battle with a rival who, as far as I know, has received somewhat more applications and are the same by the competent authorities, and, in particular, the attorney's office has been rejected. In your speech, distinguished colleagues, it is read that colleague Ronko, who is the current mayor of the city of Požega, an extremely strong man, has an influence on the municipal and other attorneys, on the institutions of the system, on the judiciary, and apparently has usurped the representative authority because he did not allow what you say, quote the review debate on the city council. I know that the relationship of power there is different and we know in the end that after these elections a new leadership of the city of Požega was chosen and that there is still one harmony but also a very precise division of responsibility in the city council. But it's strange to me that you didn't start the debate or that you didn't get to look back at your debate in the Požega-Slavon County, which also comes from the county budget, which through the county road management, is the same company 12 million kuna credits given for works that are neither agreed nor planned. So, it's about Mr. Zec, the Kamen-ingrad, etc., but I'm also saying that we really respect the rule of law, that we sanction all phenomena from whatever environment it comes from.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36704	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36705	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I respect the defense of my colleagues, my party colleague, I did not name myself I was talking about the Mayor of Požega, but you have appointed, in that part I did not mention anyone's names. However, as far as criminal charges are concerned, I'm really telling you I don't know how and who sends criminal charges, but none of my party came out of the ranks because it's not our way of communicating, but we've been trying to get city councils to solve what's the city council's domain. As far as the rule of law is concerned, it is equal to everything and all the laws should be equally applicable to everyone and I will advocate here in the Croatian Parliament that it should be the same to everyone and in the same way, and politicized, however, I would not think that more political topics were referred to me on your part than in my comment on the State Audit Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36706	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute debate. The first club of HNS PGS MPs is Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36707	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Auditor with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's a way to finally recapture our thinking on the review report, we at the HNS PGS Club are going to support these reports, although as we could see through yesterday's and this morning's debate, we had a number of objections, or I would say a different interpretation of certain allegations. I'm going to find that some of the findings are not standing or that we're looking at them from maybe another angle in another light or, of course, all the recommendations are correct and they're an excellent thread of guidance. In this very sense, I am very surprised by that final closing statement, which says that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, on the find of the State Audit, on the business of the former Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction in 2003 was not involved in the work of the Ministry. Which would mean that every change in government when there are reforms in the system of state administration, we can't show ourselves about the work of the predecessors. This is not good for a start because the revision does exactly what it does to give recommendations, guidance and corrections to those who will continue with these programmes. This is exactly what the ministry should have shown about the work of the former Public Works Ministry in a segment related to the housing that they continued to carry out. As far as the other remarks are concerned, I would refer to the remark where you proposed and recommended that we plan revenues and receipts more realistically and more comprehensively. In addition, the related implementation of expenditure in excess of the plans and other resources of the State Audit Office has ordered the taking over of obligations for purposes and to the level established by the budget, and I would particularly like to commend one recommendation that seems very important to me, and concerns point 7 where it is said the State Audit Office has ordered the setting up of activities to implement the measures to reduce construction deadlines. This is one very important thing and the handover of built apartments, which will reduce the cost of keeping them, enables Croatian military people to move into apartments. I wouldn't go into it like in 97, 98, 99, when the cities of those apartments started as it was built, I wouldn't go into it, it was all from the previous government, I found it, I tried the best possible way to end it, and I hope I'm in how much I've done it. So, I accept practically all the recommendations, what I'd like to say is that as far as POS and highways are concerned, and the impact on the economy, I would like to stress that the biggest and fastest impact on the overall GDP increase is just construction and that is precisely high-building. High-building... a series of crafts, it accelerates an increase in industrial production of building materials, it also accelerates all other industries, all products that monitor apartment equipment. High-building raises the standard of living directly or through urbanisation of certain urban areas, introduces water, sewerage, gasification, individual roads, public lighting. I would mention that in the third quarter of 2003, the GDP's increase was 5.6% compared to the previous period, of which it was a GDP share, of which the share was 1.8% by construction alone, I speak low-building and high-building. As for the reduction of housing, it is one market product in which practically the state is participating, participating local administration units, participating banks. It is a market product that is close to the buyer but ultimately that apartment is paid by the buyer. So PO or housing is strong... the economy, not based on the budget, but by accelerating the funds of private customers of apartments, which is a very important and very big difference compared to the rest. There's no movement in the state unless there's a shift in production, no social care, no good health care. Unfortunately, these projects are slowly losing on the dynamics, and there are no new good projects to be announced. The government has not offered us any new capital projects and it has already been over a year and a half of the current mandate. The term of office expires very quickly as the hour of sand and does not forgive missed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36708	Thank you. And the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang, please welcome the 5-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36709	Dear Mr. President, Madam Chief Auditor. In this very short time, I can only draw the following clues our club has seen. The only thing I don't agree with in this report we've heard from Mrs. Auditor is that from year to year things are getting better. In fact, this is the worst year shown in this audit report, which I will now only argue with a few figures. For me, this report is a crime novel, a tense crime novel, and I'm sure it'll end with a happy ending just don't know if it's for perpetrators or taxpayers, we'll see about that in a few months. What distinguishes this state report in 2003 is from other orderly amounts that were manipulated and abused by the position. In previous reports, we talked about millions, tens of millions, and hundreds of millions. In this report, we're talking about billions, so I'm going to dedicate my exposure to what's above billions, because that change really isn't interesting at the end of these numbers. When in 2003, the Ministry of Finance which should be a pillar and a model of conduct and respect when it comes to handling money, respect for the law. Where the Ministry of Finance has not shown, according to this State report, the claims of Customs and Customs Taxes in this report, on page 127, amounting to a billion and 300 million kuna. Not shown. So it doesn't exist. When the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute does not show pension payments to users in neighbouring countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro of a billion and 300 million kuna, it simply does not exist. What is it for this budget and this state report? When the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance pearls over pearls according to the State Audit Report for that billion and 600 million liabilities simply do not show them, it shall transfer them to the next periods to the following governments, page 319 of the report. For example, when the Ministry of Public Works and Construction contracted works for a billion and 300 million more than is foreseen in the budget, it spent some other governments' money. We're wondering why she did it. We'd like to ask Mr. Cacic and his ministry who cheats when the apartments are contracted. A billion and 300 million over. The Ministry of Health pearls of pearls. In a month before the election, an agreement was signed with a billion-dollar investment county. Half a billion orders have been signed in the last seven days before the election. And I was already talking about the last "long dark night" when the contract was signed the last night before the health information election. Medicines in HZZO 2 billion kuna without a public competition. Time's up and I still have six billion to count. Now you see what a shock this government was in the first seven days of its term when we discovered these irregularities. The State's Attorney's Office will now be in shock and on a proposal from the HDZ Representatives Club, it will receive these materials and I propose at the end of the State Audit to add one more page, with large letters to write unrepeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36710	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36711	So this whole exposure in the context of how it was depicted as billions of crime, billions of stolen money is completely incorrect and false. The rhetoric of a respected representative of Hebrang is well - known, who himself said he was not lying but sometimes does not tell the truth. So it's a complete lie and everything that's been said here from the ministry to the ministry, from billions to billions, all these money is transparently invested, it's known why it's been spent, it's not the subject of criminal or audit criminal charges, but it's simply listed in one piece of the audit as elements that have to be recorded differently, and that's a significant difference. And that's why the conclusion is that this blackest report is completely incorrect, completely false. On the contrary, this report is the best report so far that we don't go back in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36712	Thank you. Please review Chief State Auditor Šima Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36713	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you all for the words of support to our office and especially for the remarks and suggestions that make us even more obliged to consider in our next reports and work and apply and again the reports will probably be methodologically better. It is noted here that our quality report differs from previous reports because we now have an opinion that is true because we could not give before, we had to work comprehensively, and that is why our practice, using the practice of other European countries' revisions, has changed by accepting the European Union standards, that we have perfected both the methodology and the application of new legislation. The budget law has been passed. It was followed by one large number of implementing rules, which affected everything in some way in the way and in the way of showing in accounting or changing the course, etc. So now you can compare years in a year. The current methodology of work, the preparation of reports, the reporting of the Parliament, have only come close to the standards of the European Union because we have been evaluated and we are ready to take over all the tasks that will take place when we join the European Union. The only area not yet in line with the requirements of the European Financial Independence of the State Audit Office. It is required that the Parliament determines the amount of financial resources for the work of the State Audit Office and that it determines the salaries of authorised state auditors, which I hope we will soon do. One question has been raised here why there are no audit reports from the judicial authorities. In 1996, 1997 and 1998, we went into review and carried out 20 audits of the Constitutional Court, the Administrative, the Supreme, the High Commercial, the Violent and some county courts. When we went to the lower level courts, then there was a question of our jurisdiction to review the courts. We argued and now that we have the jurisdiction to review the courts but in part of the organisation and financial business, not in their business, but in correspondence with the Ministry of Justice, the board, etc. There was, however, the conclusion that it does not explicitly state that we have the right to revise the courts, so it is said that this will be done by the Ministry of Justice and we will see, in the course of the audit of the Ministry of Justice, that the funds have been transferred, etc. The reason that we went to an amendment to the law that was passed last December in December is that it is explicitly stated that we can carry out audits and judicial... Even though they didn't oppose the higher courts that we could do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would just like to point out here that all European audits are being audited here but in this section. We attended a seminar organised by the European Union in Slovenia on the revision of courts etc., our auditors were quite present where they covered the organisation of the judiciary of criminal institutions, judicial institutions and financial operations. There's been talk about a lot of things that can be done. For example, some institutions can otherwise organise to help better organisation, cheaper funding, and so on. It's just one of those reasons. In our report and our former audits each year, we have identified a large number of irregularities in the application of the provisions of the law on public procurement. I think that's the reason in one part and in a frequent change of rules. The regulations were one, the other, and the law so the fourth law was passed which, and always in the application of these laws, there were certain more irregularities because the implementing rules did not follow, the rules of application and so on, the Law so that there were certain irregularities in this regard. In particular, there are several years we have tried with, building regulations and health regulations special regulations are not fully in line with the Public Procurement Act. They're here especially, I'm thinking about the Public Procurement Act. For several years now, we've been asking for them to be conducted publicly, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and so on. But it's not being carried out. This list of medicines is determined in one other way and so on. It has always been assured that the Ministry’s opinion or approval will be obtained and so on. However, there is no such authorisation. We are now in one agreement with the Ministry of Finance of the Health Insurance Office to try, and with the procurement administration and public procurement control committee to change something in the Public Procurement Act that would either exempt them or force them to... We've now established, the Bureau simply wrote one, one letter. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] He sent to all health institutions that they had to carry out the public procurement procedure and so on. We think of those who are on the list of medicines when it would be spent by the Institute to make it much more economical and so on, and health institutions, according to our knowledge, because we have audited all health institutions. 64, we're done. I can't achieve a lower price than I would have achieved by myself. And we're looking, and we're appealing here. We think that there will be a harmonisation of these views and that this will be regulated legally by the Institute to carry out this procedure, to make a list of medicines, and that health institutions can obtain up to a certain amount and maximum prices in that part. It's one big problem we're trying to solve, and we haven't been able to solve it. There are many more of these problems, the problem of applying Article 6 relating to the granting of direct procurement approval and... And some others who declare themselves a slave who can't go public and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By amending that article, or by harmonising certain provisions, we believe that much will be achieved. I'll also just point out here that I've been present at certain gatherings where they've been assigned to the task and our... that a new Law on Public Procurement must be adopted, that it will comply with European Union legislation and that I think we will work together with Slovenia because they have not yet brought that law into line. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So we tried with our Ministry of Finance, and we participated in some part of it when it was being prepared, uh, the Law in Slovenia to cooperate with them and to coordinate it, sooner perhaps than it would be necessary. I'd still have a lot of objections, suggestions, demands what to do with the findings, proposals for state audit. Believe me, I'm not always happy with what's been done according to our findings. I read everything, I still read all the reports. I look primarily at what was done in our findings from the previous reporting period. There's a big problem in front of us. We're in, in a way, suggesting the responsible person of the subject's audit, making recommendations, findings, suggestions. We can't go on. Because that's the way the audit works. The profession determines what's wrong and makes suggestions. We also believe that every audit entity, or responsible person, should be in the interest of the state coming, of reviewing, of trying, together with the head of government, to do what can be done as much as possible. Or some things that are repeated to propose amendments to the law, to propose amendments to some regulations, some provisions so that we can do it together, somewhere, and we have to admit in most cases we don't succeed. Although I have to say, a lot of things have changed like that. I just have to point out once again that our mission is to determine the facts and it's beyond doubt. That all audit entities must manifest themselves to our report and accept. If they don't accept it, we repeat the invitation to discuss it again. That if they have some kind of documentation that more auditors agree and only then do we finish the report. And that there were only five objections that we dealt with separately and that we agreed on. So I think the findings are unequivocal and confirmed. The audit has no potential for coercion. In addition to the court of the public, the Croatian Parliament, and in the units of the local council, we deliver each of our reports to the mayor, the Mayor, the Head of the Council or the Head of the Assembly. It's happened in these few years that certain, I don't know for what reasons, haven't discussed... However, at the request of the Councilor, we deliver an individual report because we believe that it should be and that in that part and that we can take those measures that the revision cannot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can make a recommendation, but we can't go any further... We have the experience of other audits to achieve significant successes through debate in Parliament, in Parliament and in the public. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] That it's the court of the public only means of national audit but... And the others, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've been in our work forever, and now we're particularly working together with the attorney's office, the MUP and other institutions that deal... During this year, I have to admit that there have been a lot of cooperation, that we have delivered hundreds of reports that are on their request, but that we have also delivered reports where we thought they should be directed, I will mention the Hydrometeorological Institute here. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] We felt that business was such that immediately after the audit, we sent them this report. What's he gonna do about it? I also have to say here that I personally asked these three subjects who had a negative view of what they had done. The Croatian Olympic Committee has taken over. Regos has taken over. However, for now, the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute has not done enough for me. What are we gonna do? We'll go back to the audit to see what we're doing here, but again, if we're gonna do it that way, I say "force" again, we don't have to do it. We have one large number of these current reports analysed, reports on the revision of conversion and privatisation where we were obliged to submit certain applications and these reports that carry out... Most of the time, most of the time, and in these reports, there are irregularities that are not sanctioned. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It's also about irregularities, we can't talk... But I'm doing myself a little... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] it's a matter of malpractice irregularities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A small number of irregularities happen. These are examples, in particular, of the need to highlight this in breach of the provisions of the law, non-compliance with the provisions of the law and other provisions on public procurement. These are generally prescribed infractions or no sanctions. By analysis. I think a new law must be taken into account, but he will probably come before this House cannot say when, but he will come before this House. It will be easier for us too, it will be more effective audit, and it will be more efficient and services that work for us as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36714	I thank the state's chief auditor, Mrs. Simi Krasic. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36715	Now we are going to report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2004, the report on the audits carried out for 2003, and the report on the audits carried out for 2003. Here we have the proposals for the conclusions of two clubs, we have the Club of Representatives of the HDZ and we have the proposals for the conclusions of the SDP Representatives Club. The SDP representative club submitted a proposal for a conclusion which was previously shared with us in written form, after consultations and with the Government with the relevant resolution ministers, and the government also accepted these proposals for the conclusions of the HDZ Club of Representatives and in a changed form which was recently shared with representatives and proposals for the conclusions of the SDP Club of Representatives. In addition to the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, the conclusion under number 2 has already been consumed in a broader sense and laid down under the conclusion of the HDZ Representatives Club proposal under point 4 and point 5. So I'd like to put these proposals to the vote. The first is the proposal for a conclusion by the HDZ Representatives Club. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that the conclusions were accepted with 91 votes for, 10 against and 10 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-13-0.u36716	And now I'm voting on the SDP Representatives Club's proposal for a conclusion. This conclusion, number one, is identical which we voted just before to accept the report on the work of the State Office, the report on audits carried out and the conclusion under number 2. We only vote on the conclusion under points 3a and b. which the Government also accepts and ask that, therefore, to be included and to be asked then to vote on the proposal for conclusions under number 3. SDP counseling club. The result? 85 votes for, 10 abstentions and 12 against. The majority also adopted these proposals for the SDP club's conclusions.
