ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45471	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue the session and move on to the next item of the agenda, which is - Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, for the first half of 2005. On the occasion, well, here you go. Is that on behalf of the club? In the name of the Club, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. So we move on to this report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 for the first half of 2005. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Budget Act, the Government submitted that report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance of the State Budget and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here today we will discuss the implementation of the budget for the first six months, perhaps never in the history of the Croatian state were so contradictory and different indicators in the first three months, and the second three months of one semester as it was in this year, and therefore all those bad signs that were the first three months have been corrected by the end of the six months, and perhaps when we talk about the revenues themselves, it will be necessary to correct them with certain macroeconomic indicators that for the first 6 months and since we are on the half of the 10th month, to follow with macroeconomic indicators for the first 9 months just because of you fellow MPs who may not have the opportunity to reach these data and also for the Croatian public. So, as I have already said after a lot of difficult growth in the first three months and a weaker budgeting in the first 3 months of 2005, the government clearly warned and found that this was happening in the second quarter of 2005, economic growth in the Republic of Croatia was 5.1%. Also, revenues in the state budget began to be better charged, so in the first 6 months of the first six months of 2004 we have increased revenues by 7.3%, or if we look at the nominal amount, that is 2.7 billion or, compared to 2003, it is 4.5 billion more in the first six months. I also think that because of this economic growth and because of the budgeting, it is important to note that in the 7th, 8th and 9th months of income compared to the 7th, 8th and 9th months of the month, the monthly comparisons increased 11%, i.e. in the 7th and 9th months of 2005 compared to the 7th, 8th and 9th months of 2004 respectively, or if we are to compare it with the year before 2003, then the revenues in the 7th, 8th and 9th months are compared to the months 7th, 8th and 9. In 2003, higher by slightly more than 18% and the revenues of the state budget are the best indicators, an indicator of economic activity, or the poor or weak one, and this is the best indicator for the first three months. The first indicator that something was not happening well was a weaker charge of the budget in the first two months. Also in the second quarter, the first indicator that there was more intense economic growth was shown on the revenue side of the state budget, where revenues were, for example, 12.7% higher in the 6th month of 2004. So, all of this shows that the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia at the end of this year is likely to be around 4%, which is about 0.3% more than the projections and also during the budget rebalancing was talked about, but we should also note that the income tax was made in the first six months with 99.4% of the planned funds, although I have to say that from the basis of income tax in 2005, given the application of the amendments to the income tax law and the increase in the non-taxable part of income tax, however, they were expected to be lower income, but in the first six months they said in the first six months they were at 99.4% but what supports our claims and data and the state department for statistics and projections of the Croatian National Bank, which is that in the 2nd quarter and 3rd far more dynamic economic activity and more intense economic growth is the growth of income tax from even 33.7% compared to the first six months. And now I know that many will want to say this is the result of the payoff difference for last year, but such increased growth also has a trend after nine and a half months, so it's something that has become constant and has been continuous. Thus, this growth in profit tax compared to last year's over 30%, and the value added tax in 2005 compared to 2004 recorded a growth of 4.8%. In the case of social contributions, the application of the new Law where most of the younger persons employed decided on the 2nd pillar of pension, therefore on that basis, since those who are going to retire were only secured in the first pillar. With this basis, there is a difference in the percentage of the payment between the contribution and the pension, as one part of the pension that went to the state budget this year goes into the payment of the second pillar of pension, but therefore the fund in the second pillar has grown to over 8 billion, they are one of the most significant investors in government bonds. As for macroeconomic indicators for the first 6 months and their comparisons in the third quarter, we can say that the real growth of the domestic product, the gross product in the first half, was 3.5%, with the fact that in the second quarter it was 5.1%, but in the first quarter it was extremely bad, and that's why it was at the level of 6 months 3 and a half percent. And what is important to say is that the growth of gross domestic product in the second quarter of 5.1%, such growth in the Republic of Croatia was not practically recorded, was reported only at the end of 2002, over 5% and in no other period did Croatia have such high economic growth. Looking at the trends in certain macroeconomic indicators, we can say that industrial production in the first 6 months has seen a growth of, an average growth rate of 4.7%, the processing industry has increased in the first 6 months by 6.3%, and the largest contribution to its growth has come from food and drink production that has increased by 5.8%. The nominal growth of trade in the first 6 months is 6.6%, while real trade growth has increased by 3.2%. In the first 6 months, the number of arrivals of tourists increased by 5%, according to data from the State Statistics Institute, a trend in the reduction in unemployment of workers continued in June 2005, so that the total number of unemployed decreased in June compared to May by almost 11 000 or 3.5%, while compared to June 2004, the unemployed were higher by 1,000, however, at the first time, unemployment in Croatia came to a rate of 17.1%. If ships are excluded from exports and imports, exports increased by 13.3% during the last 6 months, while imports increased by 9% at the same time. By observing trade in goods by activity, the biggest contribution of export growth over the first 6 months came from the production of machines and devices that increased even by 38.8%, the production of food and drinks that increased by as much as 37.2%, the production of coke and petroleum products 22.2%, and the production of chemicals and chemical products and 17.9%. And when we look at the growth of these individual economic branches, then we understand why in the second quarter economic growth was 5.1%, but what is very important, the growth of these economic branches guarantees a continuous and standard growth of gross domestic product in the next period. And what I would also like to mention is that the external debt was at 24.2 billion euros at the end of June and recorded an annual growth rate of 10.6%, which is a significant slowdown in growth compared to last year, especially compared to 2003, and the share of the country in total external debt fell from 34.4% in June 2004 to 29% in June 2005. If we look at the movement of macroeconomic indicators in the third quarter, therefore in the period from 6 to 9 months, the data accompanying movements in the different real sector activities also indicate favourable movements and in the third quarter, so the favourable movements from the second quarter continued in the third quarter. Industrial production during the third quarter continues to grow above last year's average, with the highest export growth rate of all months of the current year recorded in August, a particularly favourable indicator in the area of tourism. Industrial production registered an annual growth rate of 5.4% in July and 4.7% in August. The average growth in July and August is 5.1%, and the average growth in the processing industry in July and August is 6.8%, and the biggest contribution of its growth came from food and drink production, which increased by 5.2%. The nominal growth of trade was slightly accelerated by 5.7%, the number of tourists arriving in July and August was 6.3% higher, and the number of overnight tourists was 9.5% higher. The number of registered unemployed persons at the Croatian Employment Service recorded a decline and 6 months in a row, dropping in August to 291 thousand kuna, 291 thousand or 17% year-on-year compared to the same month in 2000, the number of unemployed persons recorded a decline compared to 1%. In August, export growth accelerated and recorded a 29.5% growth rate, which is the highest growth rate of all months in the current year. If exports and imports are excluded, exports have increased by 12.7% in the first 8 months, while imports have increased by 9.6% at the same time, so over the year and 2-3 months we have recorded faster export growth than imports, and this clearly backs those data on economic growth which was 5.1% in the second quarter and slightly lower in the third quarter. Inflation was at 3.1% in July and August, and I consider this a particularly important indicator, because despite the rise in oil prices, inflation remained within the frameworks of about 3% of the forecasts, although due to the growth of oil derivatives of inflation in Croatia will reach 7.8%, however, as you can see, the current balance of payments account has been kept at certain levels, we have managed to slow down the growth of external debt and what is very important, so despite the rise in oil prices and something else, despite the growth of agricultural products as a consequence of the elementary disasters in Croatia inflation remained within 3% and Croatia with such inflation rates has the lowest inflation rate of all European, one of the lowest inflations of all European countries. Also, as I said, the external debt was at 24.1 billion euros at the end of July and registered an annual growth rate of 9.6%, while in the previous year it was 24, and in 2003 it was close to 40% and the total share of the state's foreign debt fell from 34% in July 2004 to 28.6% in July 2005. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we add to these indicators, let me repeat what I already said, that the revenues of the state budget are at 8. Months 9 and 10 versus 8. 9th and 10th of 2004 grew by 1%, or if we look at the 12th 10th of the year, the revenues from 12.10.2004 increased by 7.4% higher, this clearly indicates that all positive economic developments the prime minister is talking about, and this government has been talking about for several months, although we have been honored to enter the recession, are going in a positive trend, because the collection of state budget revenues is the best indicator and indicator of economic activities. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45474	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr. Representative of Šima Prtvenjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45475	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at the 26th session of 20 September 2005. A report on the implementation of the 2005 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half, submitted by the government to the Prime Minister on 4 August 2005. In the opening statement, the Prime Minister pointed out, among other things, that in the first 6 months of 2005, the total revenues of the state budget, the revenues of the business and revenues from the sale of non-financial assets amounted to HRK 39,758 billion, representing 45.9% of the planned revenues in 2005 during the period of course. Compared to the same period 2004, total revenues increased by 7.3% in the first half of 2005. Total expenditures, business expenditures, non-costs for the purchase of neither financial assets for 2005 are planned at €89.809 billion. Of these, total operating expenditures were planned to amount to 87,326 billion, which increased by 5% compared to the expenditure incurred in 2004. In the first half of 2005, operating expenses amounted to €43.970 billion, i.e. 50.35% of the plan. As regards the financing of the fiscal deficit for that period, it was pointed out that it was implemented in line with the defined borrowing policy that already puts emphasis on, it makes more emphasis on domestic financing with a view to reducing the foreign debt of the state and the development of the domestic capital market. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided without debate by majority vote 6 for and 2 against proposing to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45476	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45477	Thank you very much. Say hello to everyone again. Here I will try to present in this presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club certain states and movements and also try to avoid if possible not to repeat, in particular, the information presented by Mr. Minister. Of course, in the preparation of this report and this exposure, I used different data sources. I am particularly emphasising the data, and I am going to start a brief report, i.e. the basis of the information from the three-month HNB report from the day before yesterday, so the freshest one that paints especially this period in the first half of this year, but also on the basis of this assessment of the achievement for the next period this year. The introduction should point out that the beginning of the year was extremely modest in our conditions but also in the international environment which I will try and show the data which is important as a mutually impact on each other. And now let me quote what the report says, the official report, therefore, of the independent home of the Croatian National Bank, or monetary authorities for this period. The first introduction also says that after a modest growth of 1.8% in the first quarter of 2005 the rate of economic growth was significantly accelerated in the second quarter to 5.1% year-on-year. The rate of growth was expected after unusually poor results in the first quarter. It is now evident that in the first quarter there has been a slowdown in growth not only in Croatia but also in many transition countries as well as in the entire euro area. This slowdown was temporary and should not have a greater impact on the year as a whole. Why do I find it necessary that in October, it is easier to reason on certain economic developments than it was in the first quarter, and for a short while, I remind myself that at that time many were talking about recession and fortunately by most and perhaps individuals who caused recession, it did not happen. I also want to bind the start of the exhibition and it is clear that economic growth depends on domestic demand or foreign demand that generates and produces through exports. The negative influences were tripartite. First through the first part of the year and stagnation of domestic demand, which has significantly affected the increase in supply, clearly both the decrease in production by both supply and demand. I also remind myself that in the first quarter there was an enormous winter that affected the prices of agricultural products and also the prices of transport and other services. And third, that foreign demand is, and I remind you, that Croatia exports about 62% of its exports, exports to the euro area, or in its environment, and that economic growth in the euro area in the first quarter recorded a modest increase of about 0.6%. And in other transition countries, because something is modest but less involved, that economic growth in our environment was about an average I say, about 2.5% As these 62% exports to the euro area are clear that such a state and stagnation had any consequences. Now I will try very briefly to warn about certain movements that were significant during that period, which all affected such a situation, i.e. the movement within a total of 6 months with an average estimate of possible movements in the next period. Investment consumption in the first quarter has been significantly reduced, but as the impact of the elemental disasters has finally led to, however, later seasons of the second quarter have grown, and I am particularly emphasising the significant increase in investment in the private sector. Which means resuscitating the sector after all. It was particularly highlighted in the construction sector. Exports are growing, we've heard the data, and I'm going to try to avoid all the indexation as much as possible not to repeat the same data. But it's quite clear that exports are growing. What rejoices in this export structure is that especially when exports are cleared from the negative influence of oil and negative influence or, say, seasonal oscillations of oil and shipbuilding that it shows an increase in production and in exports also increases in the structure, production of machinery and devices, means of transport, and in particular the increase in the production and export of food and drink that our production structure also encourages. The consumption in the first quarter ranged around 4.4% and this consumption seemed primarily interesting, and so far experts still cannot agree on the particular demand and consumption generator during this period, the greatest importance, i.e. the greatest defeat, has recorded the traffic or demand of motor vehicles, which is true and given the structure and source and... In particular, when I remember last year a story about excise duties and these impacts that were in that period, it is a concern for some of these movements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, motor vehicles, oil, oil derivatives, oil products and other things, and those in the structure are actually the highest import rates. And that's exactly where it comes from, then certain weeks of movement. Shortly, according to the order here, the information, i.e. the data, is briefly pointed out that employment is growing, however, and it is pictured through two weeks and according to not only polling how it was used earlier to have data, but according to data from the Croatian Employment Service, but also the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which suggests that the number of insurance companies is growing gradually and of course the number of unemployed falls. What is interesting in the monetary sphere is that the banks, which is the issue of demand in the domestic market, actually the domestic market and domestic demand, have derived a situation in this period where a slight recession in foreign demand has been determined, has significantly increased the credit and funds of the population. The estimates revolve between somewhere between 18 and even 20% increase in the population's plasma credit rate, which then, of course, reciprocated demand and thus growth, growth in industrial production. Apartments or loans, housing loans even at a rate of 25% and what we can also say cheers up if, in this period, we can appreciate certain economic developments that credits to entrepreneurs have grown by around 7 and a half percent because banks still prefer to push loans to the population for known reasons than in this business sector, however, it is also growing. In particular, the negative impact on imports, and this impact on the negative, negative, or trend in the achievement of gross national income, the impact of energy and prices through this because I use the opportunity to highlight the data that probably or at least a little mention is that the increase in oil and oil derivatives that is extremely significant for the Croatian market in dollars has increased even at a rate of 59%. And in kunas even at the rate and that is the interval then the relationship between kuna, dollars and EUR that in kunas has even grown somewhere around 68%. Thus, such an increase in prices alone causes disturbances in the balance of payments and, of course, in gross national income and other indicators during that period. During that period it is also characteristic in the monetary sphere and otherwise it is an indicator of an economic nature that increases monetary mass during that period. To grow, positive money is growing so-called and growth is said to be a foreign exchange, a foreign currency saving, which also points to certain positive developments in the sector, which, of course, ensures stability and demand and growth, an increase in production during that period. In the current account deficit, the minister has already pointed out certain indicators and according to estimates to indicate a disturbance in this area because almost fundamental disturbances have caused profits from the company, foreign companies that are not in us, and which are not then used in this balance of payments and, of course, that mass of money has a negative impact on that. In particular, imports have a negative impact on the price impact indexation but also on the overall impact of oil and oil derivatives, and in fact have the highest rate, although they have some impact on our exports as well. Tourism is more prominent in the first term because we are talking only about this period, the first half already have positive trends with indices already presented, but later movements in the tourist season suggest that this is one of the best tourist seasons in the history of the free Croatian state, which, of course, will result at the end of the year with the achievements of certain trends. Financial tendencies made. Exports are growing surprisingly well in this second term or second quarter, but they continue to tend to increase growth in the next period, which suggests an increase in the rate around almost 16%, 15.8%, which is a very high rate. One of the larger in recent years, and when it is cleaned from the influence of oil for prices and quantities, as well as ships also points to an increase at a very grateful rate of about 14, 14 and a half percent. Foreign debt known story. Reduction of foreign debt, but the increase of bankers and other users in that foreign debt. Nevertheless, the state has committed itself to domestic funding sources and will continue to do so because of all other possible negative impacts and for now it can be said that the state has control over this foreign debt at least when it comes to state financing. Code, now a few data after these macroeconomic indicators, a few data on the achievement of total revenues, only in the indexation. Of course, I'm here to try to give indexes and compare, combine the meaning of realisation towards rebalancing because we adopted rebalancing in July somewhere, so now this combination is given according to plan, but this is now data, indexes according to rebalancing, so they show something different picture. Just a few details. The total revenue was achieved over the period, therefore with a total of around 46.3% of the rebalancing rate. We still believe that, given these tendencies, it will surely be achieved by the end of the year. Income from business at 46.3%, tax revenues were achieved at a rate of 46% and some%, income tax at a rate of 42% and so on. The profit tax is reached at 56.3%, therefore according to the rebalancing rate, not according to the plan, so that there are no later possible corrections. The increase or realisation of VAT at a rate of 46% of excise duties was also about 45%. So stable economic movements and somewhere below the rebalance, but all of these, these all indicators significantly higher than the previous year, which, of course, indicates then a stable increase in the next period. Especially at the expense, I'll just have a few groups point out at the expense that they were social contributions and giving to the public that they were. We are also aware of the reasons for both the material costs and the costs for, of course, employees are known to be paid, the material costs and the rest are realized according to that index. Thus, in a hasty attempt to gather all possible indicators and movements during this period, and using different data sources, we believe that the achievement in these 6 months was the achievement of the government's indicative economic plan during this period or the state, and that it provides a good basis for its safe achievement by the end of the year because all indicators that were later realised and we can safely say that this period which had an extremely bad impact or poor condition in the first quarter significantly had positive trends in the second quarter and that these tendencies continued until the end of the year. We therefore support and propose to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45478	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45479	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues here is Mr. Minister and Mr. Luggage, a colleague of the Luggage has given one optimistic picture of the movement of things in our budget. Of course, the government is always optimistic because it is responsible for what it represents. And I will, of course, ask some questions on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS even if, of course, I wish that was exactly what the minister said. This means that economic movements are positive. So that we have a good income for these classic ways of filling the budget and then we won't need borrowing, but of course there should be some questions. The first question is whether economic processes can be observed in neighborhoods at all. The Quartal can be distinguished by a series of things that have nothing to do with the economic movements in the quarter from the second quarter very strongly. So for example, one, two ships that you export, and that export has nothing to do with what happened in that quarter, it's important to you to raise your exports and it actually affects these macroeconomic indicators. So, of course, I would like it to be just as the minister said that we are on the path of economic recovery, the strong growth of income from profit tax and so on from VAT, but this methodology by which one quarter is allocated compared to a whole year or a multi-year period, I don't think it's good in itself. What I'd like to mention here, and so income and expenditure, the difference is too big. The difference is from 4 and a half percent of the total budget and if so, something should be done to ensure that, at that time, incomes are less than they were planned to in some other way, financing ensures the normal functioning of the state. However, it is seen here from this budget that many segments of the state's activity have been completely neglected precisely because of the low incomes. If you look at the general picture of the budget, the realisation of the budget at the construction of residential facilities 28%, business facilities 28%, facilities and equipment 23%, medical and laboratory equipment 28%, investments in computer programs 18%, etc. So, in this period where for this half year, it is obvious that some of the things that the state needs to do continuously that are not a matter of this or that mid-term are not done because the revenue was obviously too low. I think it would be logical that during that period when known, it is more or less known that the revenues in the first half of the year at least that's the last time the minister said they were smaller than they were, that by financing it would be compensated and that the state's activities were regularly ongoing. I'm going to back up some other data from this budget. However, it is a particularly interesting issue of net funding. So I'm still talking about these macro-economic indicators. In fact, according to what's presented here, we have a deficit in the narrow segment of the state of 4 billion and 843 million kuna. So it's already 2 billion kunas bigger than it was a plan towards rebalancing, not according to this budget, but according to the rebalancing. So the question is, what's going to happen to that deficit by the end of this year? Again, I hope what the minister said was correct. But the fact is that this deficit is only a narrow part of the state of $4.8 billion and that by 2 billion it's greater than the rebalancing is foreseen for the whole year. Similarly, if the planned deficit, i.e. the lack of Croatian highways, is therefore public enterprises that are not in that narrow part of the country over 4 billion, it is already more than 8 billion and if the deficit is achieved we will already exceed the planned deficit of the state budget of 3 and a half percent. So these are the questions that are being opened here. Not to say that 4 billion kunas are supposed to move out of sales here in order to say the sale of state property, so if that's accounted for in the shortfall, and it can be counted down to a shortfall, then the deficit will be 12 billion kuna or 6% of gross national product, which is much larger than it's declared. Of course, it can happen that the state doesn't sell, I don't know what's in the INA sales plan, so that's not going to happen. But then the question is how they're going to cover this expenditure side of the budget. And there's something else I'd like to say in that sense, and that's the question of borrowing. So it's obvious that the external debt is stagnating, and that the internal debt is galloping, and it's growing galloping. But the question is, in terms of when you have 90% of banks in external, so foreign ownership, conditions where economic and then financial movements are integrated, what is the difference between internal debt and external debt. Therefore, when the Republic of Croatia opens up, when we do not know what impact it has on the development of our domestic financial markets, the question is whether it makes any sense to distinguish internal and external debt, because especially since we know that internal debt is more important than external debt. If you look at the data then you will see that the sad vault records are reached with 395% compared to the entire year's plan. Foreign bonds with 77%, and should therefore be as planned 50 percent. However, foreign bonds are zero, and also some other data on borrowing in foreign banks are 677% compared to the plan for the whole year. So 12 times more than you'd expect to be in charge of the first half of this year. So that's an equally important question. I think it's an external and internal debt issue of the state, I'm talking about the debt of the state, and here it's just being talked about, in fact, just a political question. We've raised it to a level of great difference and great importance. However, I repeat in terms where we do not know how this affects the development of the country's financial markets, under conditions where financial flows are integrated. Therefore, it is difficult to set differences in conditions where we have 90% of foreign-owned banks, the issue of the difference between external and internal debt, I think it is not as important as we in politics often know how to give it importance. So much for these macro-economic movements. At least I'll repeat once again that I'd like it to be just as the minister said, so we'll cover these regular state revenues, primarily tax revenues, non-indebts and not selling state property in a quality way, even if this data that I've been talking about doesn't really point to. However, as a negative consequence that the revenues below are significantly below 50% in this period during the first 6 months of this year, the consequence is that state institutions are not doing what they should do. If you look at the budget only in certain government offices positions such as public procurement 25%, state property 23%, internal audit 26%, and then some ministries such as the Ministry of Environment only 16% of the implementation of the budget, etc., then you see that for these reasons, because revenues are significantly less than 50% of the plan actually a good part of the state institutions did not do what was planned. One part of this can certainly be compensated in the second half of the year, but some of these activities are certainly such that they should have been carried out in the first half of the year, and this is therefore a big question of whether the quality of the work that these institutions are in charge of is done in such a way. I will only list a few of the most interesting items, and then I will specifically refer to some of the resors that are particularly interesting from our point of view. For example, in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is particularly important for the economy sector is realised with only 29.69%, so less than a third. The subsidies to companies are 33%. So it's the same about a third. So, equally important under the plan, which is of course what the development of the Republic of Croatia should rest on, so that we are in a situation that only by subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, subsidies to companies, and not subsidies to private persons are achieved above 50%, 56.91%. All other subsidies to commercial companies in the Ministry of Economy segment are below a third, and that of course means that the development of the economy, the part for which the State is responsible, cannot be as planned. When we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, I would like to warn that two very important items, which is the rise of many years of plantations and the development of irrigation systems, have been achieved in the first half of the year by 0%. It's not just a situation for the past six months. Following the development of the budget for the last few years, we have seen that the rise of the multi-annual plantations, which is crucial for the planting of permanent plantations prior to our inclusion in the European Union, and therefore, of course, we have less and less time because that date is approaching, we do not regularly take advantage of the little funds provided for in the state budget for such an important activity. It's the same situation with the irrigation system. We know how we stand with irrigation, Croatian agriculture, and in this half of the year we're talking about here this system is, in this system is spent 0% of the planned funds anyway. And what I would especially like to point out are extremely unacceptable data from us items of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. From this budget of this realisation budget for the first half of this year, it is absolutely not clear what refulcious processes are happening in the ministry. Every reful process, even more serious, must find its echo in the budget. It's absolutely unclear what's going on in that ministry. Because what is crucial is actually for reforming primary and secondary education, such as professional training and education of teachers and teachers, the project of education reform is developed by 0% or let's say the other by 0.42%, so almost negligible. And that's the same situation in high school. To make the matter even worse in that segment of the Institute of Education is, which should be the bearer of all professional activities in reform, has spent only a quarter of its resources. Similarly, last year, the Institute did not take advantage of so little planned resources. Therefore, the question remains, in fact, how, apart from naturally inflatable media statements, can be talked about reforming education, and these tendencies, I repeat, are not only the tendency of this half-year, but this is the continuation of the same process from before, since last year. Therefore, it is absolutely not clear from this budget what kind of reform of such important segments as secondary and primary education in the Republic of Croatia is happening. And another segment related to the Ministry of Education, Science, Education and Sports, that is, these are segments of information for which it is mostly responsible. Three items of development of the country's IT infrastructure, which were to take place through Carnet totalling 57 million kuna, were realised by 0%. And yet it's not just data for this one, from this report, it's old data, that logic continues from previous years. Here, colleagues and colleagues, repeating that I would like that everything the minister said would be just like that, that we would have enough original income for the second half of this year. But for these reasons, the club of representatives of the CNS and the PGS will not support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45480	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I think, as in the name of the promoter and as finance minister, I have to react to some things because if it looked like this then it would simply be a disaster in Croatia. And on the basis of which Mr. Rados said surely the growth of income would not have been more than 11% last year in some months or 18% than it was two years ago. And neither would economic growth be 4%. But when it comes to data that a single item is used only by 26%, and it's not said how nominal the nominal part of it is then it may sound so alarming. However, certain investment processes also extend throughout the year, and their collection comes within certain months, and above all I mean an observation regarding the Ministry of Science. I'd just say, Mr. Representative, that the funds for the Ministry of Science in 2005 are a billion kuna bigger than they were in 2003. Most of these funds are used precisely for these refulgic procedures that are spoken of. However, those working in the executive government know that individual processes, as far as expenditure is concerned, do not have twelve. Another old, when you look at the structure of the Croatian budget and you see that the funds for wages and pensions, health care somewhere around 72.73% of the budget, then they practically dictate the implementation of the budget for each period. And also all these years since the beginning of the Croatian state, and in all countries, budget revenues in the first 6 months are always below 47%, and in the other 6 months are generally, if normal processes, above 53% and 54%. So that's why I said, it's an indication that from 12.10. compared to 12.10 last year, budget revenues are up 7.3%. If you remember the budget rebalancing, then the growth of income was projected 6.3%. So all these macroeconomic indicators show that and as far as income and expenditure are concerned, things are fine. But what I'd really like the most is why I came to the most, which is that the thesis is that it doesn't matter where the state stops, where the state is in debt. These days since the start of the negotiations with the Republic of Croatia with the European Union was also the conference of the 15th anniversary of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, you could hear what people say about the development of the financial market in the last few years in Croatia. In a report by the Croatian National Bank, all relevant factors and the state are said to have been the strongest generator of empowerment and growth of the financial market. The second thing, the possibility that the financial market accepts the issue of kuna bonds, that at this point we can go to the issue of bonds for 20 years, clearly indicates what the state's decision to borrow on the domestic market meant. And what I would like to say, primarily for the sake of the Croatian public, is not true that bonds on the financial market of the Republic of Croatia are purchased by banks and are owed outside to buy these bonds. Most of these bonds are purchased by investment funds, citizens. In this way, domestic savings are actually activated. I repeat, it's not true that banks are in debt outside to buy bonds. And when we talk about debt growth, the debt can only be financed in two ways. One is borrowing, whether the state will be in debt at home or outside. And the other is the sale of assets and the financing of the asset deficit. So what you're saying simply has nothing to do with debt growth and we can go back 5, 6, 7 years and see how the country's deficit was financed and how the foreign debt grew. If you sell 35% of Telekom and get 5 and a half billion kuna for it and use it to finance the deficit, then normally that year, you'll need your debt to finance the deficits by 5 and a half billion kuna less. But if you don't make the sale at the same time, you decide to finance the deficit and the debt growth will be higher. Therefore, if all parameters are not taken, comparing certain indicators is simply impossible. So, the claim that the growth of external and domestic debt is equal, I don't think it simply stands because the significant growth of the external debt of the state is more exposed and dependent on international financial institutions, and ultimately that the growth of last year's debt is not an important parameter then it would not be certain conditions and international financial institutions. But what is very important is to say, the result of growth, in fact, of reducing or slowing the growth of external debt, is the result of a coordinated fiscal monetary policy that is being led back a year, a year and a half, so that is the consequence. And what I would also like to say is that the Croatian highways according to the financial plan adopted by this High House have a deficit, in fact Croatian highways and Croatian roads have 3.5 billion kunas and they will be within that framework. However, I would also like to tell you that in the second quarter of the activities of the Croatian highways and roads was very intense, and that the revenues, as regards the revenues from the tolls and part of the excise duties, were the most intense in the 7th, 8th and 9th months so that the state budget, the central state would be within the frameworks of the assigned and this adopted by this Higher House 4.2% and also the budget and financial plan of the Croatian highways and Croatian highways will be within 1.5% as adopted in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45482	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45483	I haven't said for an hour that borrowing on the domestic market and outside is exactly the same, I just said that in conditions where financial flows are integrated, of course when the state is increasingly open, the country's ever-increasing policy, it's hard to talk about such a big difference between internal external debt. And to make things worse in that sense, because the fact that the interest we get on internal borrowing is generally bigger than the interest we get when we're in debt out of the country, and that's especially the case when we're in short-term debt in the country itself. If that were the case, they show... the records we have here, which have significantly exceeded the plan for the whole year, not only for half a year, but we're paying out of this budget is visible, big interest for that borrowing. So I was talking about how it's very difficult to talk about a big difference, I didn't say it was the exact same process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45484	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45485	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Minister of Finance, the esteemed gentlemen of the MPs. Clearly this dilemma opened by Mr. Radosh is the famous one, whether the glass is half full or half empty. I'm also trying here now, first I'm going to start twisting some claims by the ministers that we've had a chance to listen to. What is certainly the most important thing in Croatia, as is living here, and the fact is that in Croatia from year to year life is increasingly expensive. It's true, there's a raise in salary. In 2003, the average salary in this country was 3.996.00 kuna, 2004. 4.128.00 kuna, 2005. 443.00 kuna, but it is also a fact that a consumer basket gallops. In 2003 the price was 5,266.00 kuna, 2004. 6,241,00 kuna. We will see what amount it will reach in 2005, but it will certainly be a thousand kunas higher than it was in 2004. So the salary rises in 2005 compared to 2004 by 300 or 304.00 kuna, and the consumer basket in 2004 increased by 975.00 kuna compared to 2003. This year it will certainly be over a thousand kunas. The price of gasoline, electricity prices, heating prices, meat prices, vegetables, fruit, rents to protected tenants, etc. Finally, on average, we can only settle 75% of the consumer basket today. It means an average salary of $4.32.00. It's clear that when we get the total statistics, everything seems a little small. This year's clothing and shoes increased by only 1.1%, 2.4% increased housing prices, 4.3% of non-alcoholic drinks, but also a year-long diet of 5%, meat of as much as 8.3%, fish 5.1%, vegetables 7.1%), bread 3.6%, milk, cheese and eggs 3.8%, etc. which will say that we are simply expensive, that this country will be even more expensive, that, unfortunately, in this country, more and more of these trends from year to year life may deteriorate rather than improve. It is clear that, on the other hand, this cost has an impact on the revenue or revenue side of the budget, but there are more and more people in this country who are barely living and should also talk about it when it comes to budgeting itself or budgeting. What is amazing but true, however, the state budget at the annual level is difficult 100 billion kuna, it is adopted by the ordinary majority, theoretically in this Parliament can be voted with 39 hands, and the municipal, city and other budgets must be adopted by a super-half, i.e. A qualified majority. I know that this practice was introduced in 2001 or 2002 but it should be changed regardless of what such one approach goes to hand. However, it is not right for us to adopt the budget in a small municipality with a million or two million kunas by qualified majority, and in this House I said with 39 votes it is possible to adopt the same budget. What is true, it should be recognised by the Minister of Finance, that there has been no disturbance in the charge of the budget for the first six months if we exclude perhaps excise duties, customs duties and income tax that the minister spoke of a lot. The 2004 and 2005 index was that 107.2% or 7.2% in excise duties was achieved at 2.6% in dynamics, and customs recorded even a significant decline. Clearly, these excise duties are two groups that carry out an enormous incursion. These are excises on alcohol and beer, and they're probably the result of that absurd law of 0.0 promila. Although here we have a submerge of 17 million kuna for these 6 months compared to that period last year, but we have found, we are a country that quickly, i.e. to figure out how to end it and how to compensate that damage. We introduced penalties through the Road Safety Act, such as neither Germany nor Germany, and the deficit of 17 million kuna compared to 2004 means we have well exceeded, or we have filled that loss. So by losing excise duties on alcohol and beer of 17 million kuna we compensated for that loss with 24 million kuna based on fines. It's funny that it's not just sad. On the one hand, literally with our punishments, we rob the people, because I repeat these penalties higher and higher traffic safety on the roads is more I repeat than in one Germany which I can only interpret that the majority who passed this law is someone who has tampered with that law. But what is far more serious is that this House's inert not to change what is harmful to our economy, our economy, our tourism, etc. and that this law is being acidified in this Parliament for more than a year. What's just as serious and what everyone's probably gonna talk about. That's the income tax. In 2004, 8 million kunas were achieved in the first 6 months more than in 2005, and we claim that wages have increased, that the number of unemployed on the other hand in the country has, for example, decreased. What is certain, however, the contributions have not changed. However, relief is a reduction. And secondly, 4.8, however, it is after these 6 months, the government has decided by employers who employ the unemployed, meaning that they are taking over from the Employment Office, stop following the return of contributions to pension, or health insurance. It is not clear why one of the best provisions to encourage the former government's employment has simply been abolished. I just couldn't figure out if this is about the whim of the ruling because every government thinks life starts with them or something else. However, now that I have seen the budget being filled based on income for the first six months, I think it is all clear because there is a serious problem with these contributions. However, I assure you, it is easy for a country where income tax is participated, for example, with only 3.5%, but with cities, counties where income tax is even 30%. We're just having a real budget disorder here. Why is that happening? So it's the same number of workers, it's bigger wages, it's smaller returns now, it's the same contributions, it's less money in the budget. So maybe that's the problem with the fact that another redistribution was made in favour of those who have a very, very much, although I can see it, in the materials is interpreted faster by the return of taxes, which should also be discussed, compared to earlier periods. It's interesting here, too, to pay for concessions. That's up 308%. So, from 90 million kuna to 280 million kuna. However, I argue that the state can proceed without any effort of over 100 million dollars just from the so-called tourist land. That's what it means, land that didn't enter the core capital of converted hotel houses. That's what IDS has been constantly slowing down throughout a series of hotel houses, from one "Adriatic Tourist", "Blue Lagune", "Anite", I don't know, "Riviere", etc. But why do I mention it? Because there's one huge absurd that affects, I claim, and among other things, unnecessary budget cuts. The question now is, it doesn't matter who this land is eventually going to belong to. Is the state, the city, the county? It's a secondary question. However, the first-class question, Mr. Minister, is why the state has allowed these hotel houses to use dozens and dozens of camps for over a decade or half without paying anyone anything. Now, imagine someone giving you a year's management of Camp Coversad and paying no one a rent. Or the one, I don't know, with 10,000 units from the chase at Lanterna. Well, you've had enough for a year, and you've solved all your problems. And that's exactly what it's all about. Those who have an enormous amount for not Croatian but European opportunities use these camps, and they pay no one in this country. If so, and so, then I would say we better organize a national lottery, throw in the drum 4 million and 300,000 names of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and choose 50, 70, 80 lucky people to simply come into possession of one such camp for a year and another year of the new lottery, etc. Of course I'm kidding around here. I want to say something else, though. Here in these materials we see that out of the lease we achieved in that period in 6 months only 15 million kuna. That opens up a whole series of questions. Bank revenues were achieved from zero kuna and 2004 and 2005. It's absurd, on the other hand, that we sold the banks for 4.9 billion kuna. Their profits, only those recovered six banks last year, were 2 billion kunas. The recovery of these 6 banks cost $11 and a half billion, mostly through bonds to which as much as €5 billion was issued, which this budget pays to new owners neatly from year to year. A special story is, clearly, those contributions. Their growth is consistent with growth projections. However, this should be put in line for perhaps the debt to be paid back to pensioners in 2006, as some 3.4 billion kunas should be taken out of privatisation. Clearly, pensions won't be bigger if we don't increase employment and that's certainly the point. So, without a rise in employment, this system can hardly endure because simply the expenditure on this basis is increasing year by year. However, it should be acknowledged that these contributions for pension, for health growth by 6.4% a year, which is fine with the planned these some projections, but the problem is the income tax that fell by 0.6% compared to 2004. Clearly, we all know what contributions are to pension and health in the Republic of Croatia. Interesting how retired these are in some other countries. In one Czech Republic 26%, in Hungary 26%, in Poland 32%, in Slovenia over 24%. So that system can only be saved by new, how can I say, employment. The same is true of health care with a clear reserve of cost reductions, but where we will further reduce that health standard. What IDS has always advocated, it's an additional taxation of monopolies. So, both banks and insurance companies and tobacco, etc. One word, to transfer that burden, means to charge the budget to those who actually have money and who will not bear it at all or feel it better said. Because it's not normal for us to let someone, some trading company, get a billion kuna net after tax. What's the export look like? There's something changing. We've exported $5.7 billion or $33 billion in 8 months. But we imported 77.7 billion kuna or $12.12 billion. I wouldn't mention it if it were during that period, so it's always said without shipbuilding, the shipbuilding didn't fail by 10.2% compared to 2004. So when the $693.2 million was made, but I said, it's probably about missing one ship. Maybe it'll be more delivered in this second half of the year, and that'll make up for it. It is particularly good that food exports, and this also says, this information, that farmers should not be afraid of Europe, has grown at significant rates. Even 44.3% this year compared to last year. Clearly, opportunities in the country are hardly ideal, you can't say. That's how 22% of the gambling revenue is witnessed. So people are often desperate and simply seeking salvation or a way out of their problems. But for the end, I'll tell you one more time. He's getting paid, but he's growing a consumer basket. Our wages are rising by about 300 kuna, a consumer basket for almost a thousand kuna. It's all picking us up. With the average salary, we can only settle 75% of the consumer basket and that's the problem of how people live, which maybe should be talked about far more than some other problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45486	Thank you very much. For SDP Club, respected representative Slavko Linic. You picked it up. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45487	One little correction from my colleague Caine. He argued that at this point, the consumer basket can only meet 75% of the needs of an average family. But that's not true. It, according to a report by independent unions, can only meet 65% of needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45488	Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45489	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP, we do not share optimism when we observe the implementation of the six-month budget this year. Two specifics of fiscal policy through the budget are the reduction of external imbalances and the second reduction of budget deficits. Did we cut the budget deficit by six months? We didn't. I'll say the little numbers. 3.2 billion in full, that's 4.8 billion. So we have a bigger deficit and we haven't achieved the basic commitment that we said at the beginning of the year. Optimism of the minister may be better with incomes in the second half, but what is evident is that expenditures grow faster than income. Therefore, the deficit will remain a problem. And what we in the SDP are always stressing is the consumption deficit, not with the basis of investment, not the growth of investment, the growth of consumption, and this faster consumption in our budget will achieve a greater deficit than we predict, a greater deficit and fundamental budget and government policy definitions for this year, I am afraid, will not be realised. Of course, there is a problem with how to solve the deficit. Then the deficit is resolved by the responsibilities and then not to disrupt the exterior I'd say we're going to have a high imbalance to do our homework and run away from the fact that we're talking about a real situation in these domestic duties. We've already crossed 11 billion new loans, government debt, so we've all assumed I'd say about the level of bank credit far, far above last year and I'd say projections. And the main cause of the enormous debt is not only the residents and the population, but it is primarily the Croatian state because of the lack of deficit control and what we consider a problem that this deficit is not from development, it is not from investment, but from lack of control of consumption. And that's a fact. Is it because the Croatian state is in debt that we stopped the external debt? No, I don't. We only slowed down growth and significantly slowed it down compared to n in 2003, but unfortunately there is continued growth and debt, because domestic banks and citizens I would say and the domestics are going to the outside market because there is no room on the domestic financial market anymore for the reason that it was eaten by the Croatian State. And that's why we've already crossed 83% of the total gross social product with debt, external debt. And since I don't belong, I'd say to the former opposition calling on Argentina, I think it's a very high duty on the outside, but still if we do something to grow, we'll be able to control it on investments. But for now he remains a problem, a problem that will cause further disturbances in monetary movements I would say interventions of monetary authorities. And now let me say what we are assessing as SDP is that this deficit, and by controlling and monitoring what incomes are and what expenditures are very clear we say that at this point the Government is also the cause of indifference in Croatia. If you're looking at a way of spending, given that we've crossed 11 billion new debts, that the deficit is far beyond what we expected. We're not paying our dues right now. And you can easily read it from the budget. Where you have to pay the obligation because it is a service and where the usual cost of the ministry is far above 50%, far above 50%, which means that by the end of the year or they won't be paid or they'll have to change once more not rebalancing in the Parliament, but if we remember government decisions, but it's obvious that these costs have to be paid and that they're over 50%. The programme activities range from 20% to 40%. I don't agree with my colleague, Radosh, that's for the reason you're not working. No, it's not. The ministries still negotiate, however, are in their activities, but are not paid, so it is one of the reasons that underachieved incomes and such small expenditures only mean irregular payment and cause I would say indifference in the economy. Yeah, that's an estimate of us in the SDP from these indicators that shows us the execution for the first six months. What we are particularly concerned about is the analysis we have obtained from the growth of gross social product. It was estimated to have increased by 3.2% in six months, but the biggest problem in this growth investment is 0.1%. 0.1% which means there is no growth in investment in the Republic of Croatia that affects the growth of gross social product, so it is a good part of consumption growth. But it's no wonder why there's no growth in investment? Take a look at the achievements of Croatian state-owned companies that should generate strengthening of the investment market, Croatian water, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian highway. It's a simple achievement of the planning activities from 31 to 41%. Remember INA did not invest in refineries, HEP did not invest in electricity production, HH did not invest in modernisation. Therefore, important factors by the state that would generate investments, but then a completely different relationship would be on the capital market and interest in capital, we do not have them. And that's why we don't have the growth of gross social product based on investment. But in the growth of gross social product, another essential feature in the first six months. One percent of that growth, I apologize for one index point of this is the basic creation of supplies. So of 3.2%, one percent, and one index point is based on stock growth. What does that mean? That indifference in the Croatian economy is also created within the Croatian economy and these are now dangerous trends, dangerous trends in non-payment, dangerous trends that can endanger many if we know the ineffectiveness of the legal system. If we know the inefficiencies of the courts and if we know what it means to not pay the bills. The state plus I am a system of economics that generates these problems, means that we are re-emerged from one of the major problems in the economy that was otherwise present by 2001. It's something we really need to be specifically warned about, distract us, and we certainly need to be careful in terms of expression, I'd say pleasure, with numbers if we don't get deeper into the analysis of these numbers. So is there any chance of changing these trends? There is, if simply companies in public consumption, in energy, in transport are directed towards development, if they simply strengthen the investment market in Croatia and open up the potential for the growth of gross social product and with the basis of the posters of investment, not only with the basis of the increase in consumption and with the growth of stocks in the economy. When we change these trends and change these flows I am convinced that we will also be able to control the deficit of the state budget, be able to control, I would say, our external imbalance and deficits in the balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia. What I still want to highlight on behalf of the SDP club is the problem of price growth, because this price growth problem is a danger to the standard of living of Croatian citizens. And as much as the 3.1% index is far greater than in earlier years, it's still, I'd say, on average, European countries or at the bottom, I'd say, those in Europe, given that we have even more trends, that's how much the structure of that growth prices are negative. 3.1% may not cause, I would say, concern, but when we look at the structure then we see that the traffic services that citizens use are growing is 5.9%. The supply of water and all municipal services that citizens must pay is 5.2%. And the products that serve citizens in the household are also 5.2%. So the war of those prices of carts, of which citizens spend most of their budgets, is over 5%. And that's what's worrying, that's why citizens don't feel that they live worse than they do worse. Because the cost of living rises are far above prices and the average of prices in the Republic of Croatia in the first 6 months. And of course, apart from those macroeconomic sizes, which always say there's not enough investment and development, that's why we have to worry about having a safe job. We also have problems with our average salaries, with our expenditures, because obviously the world's energy disturbance has an impact in Croatia and has accelerated growth, unfortunately, the cost of the lives of Croatian citizens. And that is why we are assessing that we should very much look at these problems that are present because, well, when we talk about municipal services, transport services, these are again the public sector of local self-government and it is very important to see in government policy how to act on these movements that should not have so many negative impacts on the standard of living of our citizens. And apparently that the continuous flight in this year from the problem of fuel prices, where the government did not want to try very clearly to define what to do, except I would say the impact on INA not to raise prices, so it is a more agreed economy, it is a socialist rather than a market economy, we did not have active tax policy measures according to the fact that INA has oil that is Croatian wealth. Tax systems could also be affected, not through the agreed economies, by simply making up for part of the budget loss if excise duties have to be reduced, but obviously through excise duties and a different excise policy affecting municipal systems, traffic systems that do not affect the price of citizens and, I would say, citizens' living standards and that their cost of life increases faster than the rise in prices in the Republic of Croatia. Obviously, when we look at these negative social consequences for citizens, then only now can it become clear to us what the rebalancing meant, because after the rebalancing of the law, we influenced the living standards of young people, because we changed incentives for residential construction, influenced the pensioners with the changes in the formula, influenced the defenders because we also changed the law. And of course, we've affected the businessmen because for 15 days we've extended their payment and return deadlines, I'm sorry, VAT returns. And I won't even mention the biggest problem, which is the introduction of costs, administrative in health because we've burdened the sick. Simply, this change in rebalancing will have a negative effect on the social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45490	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45491	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the government is the cause of indifference. False because compared to the period when Mr. Linic was in power, and from the last day's talks with the directors of large construction firms who claim to have failed if the government had not been changed, because the previous government owed them hundreds of millions of kuna in the period that he really put them on their knees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45492	Second correction, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45493	Thank you. Dear Representative Linic said there is an increase in indifference in the state, which is not true. According to data from 31.12.2003, insolvent legal entities were 22 000, the amount of unsettled liabilities reported was 12.8 billion kuna. The number of insolvent legal entities is 20 thousand, and the amount of outstanding liabilities reported in billions of kuna is 10.7. It completely disproves your claim of growth in liquidity in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45494	Thank you. At 10.52, it was time for a single debate of 10 minutes on this subject. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45495	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, on behalf of the government and the Croatian public, I can't help but react to some indicators. To go out for a pay phone in the Parliament and say that in the first six months, the government owed 11 billion, and not to say what it was spent on, is at least because of the credibility of this state, and I'm not going to say anything. So the state owed 11 billion but returned the bonds that you issued in the beginning of 2000 worth 4.799 billion kuna and paid off the debt of billions and 300 million kuna. Therefore, the net responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finance the deficit of both Croatian states and Croatian highways in the first six months is slightly greater than 5 billion kuna and this is true because of the Croatian public, because of the world's financial public. Because if we hear statements like this, then it's no wonder we're being ranked 116. Statements that are without arguments, without anything, but I say I have to say it for the sake of the Croatian public. Because to say that the state owed 6 billion more I don't think it's right at least. It was said in the 5th month that the Croatian state is in recession. Now all macroeconomic indicators say not that the state wasn't in recession but that in the second quarter it had the biggest economic growth practically what it had ever had. Today we hear the story of indifference again. I must publicly say here, as Minister of Finance, that there is no problem with indifference in Croatia. At this point, according to the Croatian National Bank, there are daily billions of kuna liquid assets and liquidity in the Republic of Croatia is at the highest level in the last ten years and that is true. That's true. That's the truth I have to tell for the sake of the Croatian public. Why some entrepreneurs don't pay each other, that this government is aware of this problem is an indicator that we went to change the Law of Business that the Government before us was unable to make exactly to prevent that bad practice. I'd like to say what the state budget isn't paying for. Several times before several thousand entrepreneurs in Lisinski, I publicly invited all Croatian entrepreneurs to whom the state owes from the state budget to report to the Ministry of Finance to see why it is not paid and why it is not paid if the funds in the state budget exist. So these are two questions that I want to answer clearly and loudly because of the Croatian public and the financial sectors. As far as the deficit is concerned, this government has a clear fiscal consolidation policy and the budget of the state deficit has been reduced from 6.3 to 4.9, and this year it is within 4.2 and according to all revenues and financial indicators and macroeconomic indicators it will be within those frameworks. Investments in the first three months grew, in the first six months grew compared to last year 3.2%. But if we blame certain indicators, then it turns out this way. That investments grew in the first six months clearly says economic growth in the second quarter of 5.1%, economic growth slightly lower than 5% in the third quarter. So it's just something that's true. Investments in INA, HEP and HZ, and I think we need to say something about the Croatian public. The final decision on the reconstruction and modernisation of the Sisak and Rijeka refineries was made by the Supervisory Board in this year, in the spring of this year and is the biggest investment in Croatia. If that decision had been made before us, probably the Supervisory Board should not make it in the 3rd month of this year, because I don't see why twice make the same decision. The second thing, when we talk about excise duties and the price of oil when we talk about the HH problem, then we say that this government didn't have the courage to introduce 60 lip excise duties to finance HH development. At the same time when we're talking about the price of oil, then we're saying we need to cut excise duties. Well, if 60 lipes of excise duties were introduced, what would be the price of oil today, and if the excise duties could have any effect on these shocks. But very interesting is one other thing. In the 2003 budget, a billion and 200 million kuna were allocated to Croatian railways, in the 2004 budget. 2 billion and 630, in the 2005 budget 2 billion and 850 million kuna. That's far more money than you'd get out of a 60-pack of excise duties. Thus, by redistributing other tax revenues, the government has provided HZ with far more funds than had been provided before. But I say when it's manipulated with amounts it's the simplest thing to say. Croatia's electricity industry also received a government permit and will receive a guarantee of over $200m in the agreement also to settle the clearing debt with Russia, the same 105m investments in HEP. Therefore, it cannot be talked about the investments The second thing, when we talk about dividends, then clearly in the privatisation contract INA says that dividends will not be paid in the next three years. It's in the contract and it's signed during the former government. Therefore, neither anyone can take a dividend from INA, nor pay it, nor in such a way prevent INA from getting invested in development. When we talk about supplies, so the logical thing is that before the tourist season, supplies are created. It's the most logical stock of all entrepreneurs. So what they're going to spend in the 7th and 8th months is not going to be bought by 15.9. They're buying 15.6. And normally these indicators at 6 months then clearly show some things. And to touch the incentives of employment and the incentives of housing savings. Since the adoption of the Employment Encouragement Act, the Croatian Government and the former have spent nearly 800 million kuna, commitments have been made for the next period of nearly 300 million kuna, the number of unemployed is unfortunately 5 or 6 thousand less than it was at the time of the introduction of the incentive employment measures. So we spent 800 and a few million kunas, and unfortunately the number of unemployed remained exactly the same. This means that a programme that I cannot say that the past government introduced because of bad intentions, introduced it because of good intentions to reduce unemployment, showed no results and that it would not continue to generate costs in the budget must be abolished and another must be proposed. But that's why this government introduced something else, that when proposing certain laws, a fiscal efficiency assessment must be made. That, precisely because such things would not happen, a law would be introduced to cause enormous budget costs, and that the effect of the application of this law was nothing. And therefore, this fiscal efficiency assessment is a very important factor in preventing this. I repeat, eventually. Croatia does not have indifference, the Croatian government also did not owe 11 billion but the net responsibility of the Croatian government for the first six months is slightly greater than 5 billion and this is the responsibility of the central state and the responsibility of the Croatian highways. Each statement of 11 billion in debt as a statement of recession is extremely malicious.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45496	6 Correction of incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45497	I'm correcting the imprecise allegations of Minister Shuker. The Croatian state owed 11.1 billion for the first 6 months. There's no need to read the page, so it's an additional new assignment. It is clearly written in documents sent to the Croatian Government's Parliament. He may have said that securities were issued by the government in 2001, but for the payment of outstanding liabilities from earlier governments. Also, the decision to invest in 2 refineries and Sisak and Rijeka was made in 2003 by the Supervisory Board, and why it is not realised will know how to explain the new Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45498	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45499	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that there is no liquidity in Croatia, and it is true that in one part it is now generated by the state budget. I'll only read two items from the Ministry of Economy for Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. Out of 100 million kunas, only 600 thousand were paid, and from the Ministry of Agriculture for multi-annual plantations of 80 million kunas and kunas and for promoting cattle and kunas. These entrepreneurs have submitted the request long ago, the money is waiting, their facilities are in construction, and of course it generates indifference, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45500	Minister, please. Communication was arranged by the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic, correction of the incorrect allegations. ... You're not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45501	Minister Shuker said a number of incorrect allegations, but I'm correcting here one that seems to me to be the most escalating example of inaccuracy, which is what the minister said is not true that the state owes the employers. And as an argument, he has sent employers to "Fire of Lisinski" to contact him. I don't know who you called or who responded to you, but the fact is irrefutable. So they don't pay their employers. Nor are those who are employed under the Law of Defense of developed defenders. On that basis, the state only owes 80 million kuna. Here, in order not to be surprised and miraculously researched, I have documented it, and it seems that now we have to communicate with documents, so I, for example, am giving you a letter from the Commissioner of Galovac Municipality who hired three defenders and here, in the last 12 months he has not been paid a single kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45502	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45503	The minister says the state doesn't owe the businessmen, and that's the quote I'm correcting. And I'm proving to another minister's line that says he's in a meeting with the businessmen telling them to come to the ministry, see why the state doesn't pay them and then eventually remove it. What would the minister call them if everything was paid? What would invite them to see why they didn't get what the state owes them if the state didn't owe them? Thus, the minister is completely contradictory in his statements, and one sentence refutes earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45504	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45505	So I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. It's one thing not to be late in payments. Indeed, numerous contracts concluded between the Croatian Employment Service and numerous employers who hired a number of people from the Employment Service are delayed for 6 months in the pay of the employment incentives. And I'll be free to send you a few such employers. ... No, no, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. It has, at least 6 months late in implementing incentives that the Croatian Employment Service should pay off. And other incorrect allegations are that the incentives for employment have not yielded results. Here, only in the county that I come from in 3 years was employed by 2 thousand and 500 people right over incentives. That's 30% of the unemployed of which 20 people with disabilities. It should be asked how long it would have been at the Employment Service if there were no incentives, and we will see that very soon because the government said it would give new measures to encourage employment on September 30th. They haven't been written yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45506	And respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45507	I am correcting the notion that is already partially correct and my colleague Linic on investments in refinery capacities in particular. This cannot be recorded as some kind of cost or debt, an investment that is not even started and that is to be realised by 2011, when it comes to the Sisak refinery of $400m. And another incorrect assumption is that the incentive employment measures did not reduce unemployment. In 92 when we started with these measures there were 420 thousand employees recorded, when we left there were 307,000. 80,000 people have been directly employed through these measures. So that's an incorrect quote, pal. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45508	SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45509	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, we have a much greater interest in the issue of starting negotiations with Europe than in implementing the state budget. But they'll probably change that, too. I would like to say something about the implementation of the budget in the first half of the budget period, and in the context of the debate we had yesterday. And in the context of what I mentioned myself. One of the fundamental European values is actually, and I mean modern Europe, balanced and balanced regional development within the Member States of the European Union. Here we have listened mostly to colleagues from certain regions, mostly from Istria who are themselves or their region, their incomes, wanted to protect their work from the influence of the central state, or from Zagreb. It's only recently that we've been listening to those who start talking about regions that actually don't get from the state what they're supposed to get. And I think the time has come for us to start talking about it. On the one hand, we have political figures in the country that come up with projects of the type that the centre of Zagreb should have, the streets in the center of Zagreb should have floor heating. On the other hand, in Croatia, we have 33% of municipalities and cities according to the Croatian Law Centre research from 3 years ago that are unable to be maintained. If you'll excuse me, I won't read it in 2004 either, because the data has been worse since 2003, or 2005 because the data is worse than in 2004 but I'm only going to read some data from 2003. Which is certainly not a complete picture, but they're an indicator of the picture. Bjelovar-Bilogor County, Great Pisnica, aid from the state to the municipality for 2003, 315 thousand 392 kuna. So NGOs from the Human Rights Office get so much money for their programs, colleagues and colleagues. Which may have 50, maybe 10, or maybe 5 members, and this municipality has 2 thousand 151 inhabitants. Lasinja, Karlovac County 461 thousand 192 kuna, a thousand 938 inhabitants. Also many minority councils that have been formed in recent years if they receive any money they receive more than this municipality, especially when it comes to Zagreb. Lika-Senj County Top 282 thousand 924 kuna. And now I could list our counties to the parish of Dubrovnik or Dubrovnik coast as municipalities where we can simply see something that is unreasonable and unsustainable. Well, I guess we didn't form these municipalities to have some kind of suitable electoral engineering or to get our party colleagues in a good position and have them tied up to the needs of party policy development. If we did, we'd end them right now because they're expenses, and they're not giving any of what they're supposed to give to the people who live there. If we created them so that people could benefit from, that they could come forward, that they could be subjects of our regional and state life, then let's give them a chance to be. 126 million 238 thousand kunas that the municipalities received from the state's direct aid were actually nothing compared to the total budget of the state. In view of the number of inhabitants, given the development and the poverty that there are colleagues and colleagues there. Poverty, imperceptibility. When I mentioned the issue of underheating in Bogoović Street in Zagreb or I don't know in Osijek, so there are various ideas about it, people were rather in this regard not to say in general, not to say autonomous in this regard, so the state probably has a duty to establish some minimum standard, some minimum values that society must be respected. Well, in the Prince's Vineyards, average gross income can't be $99. In one European Croatia, and it is. And in some municipalities such as Ervenik, for example, it certainly is less than 99. Therefore, when we discuss the budget, we cannot look back on that fact, Mr. Minister, as we have on many occasions talked about it. Or let's forget about those areas that we call areas of special state concern because it's mostly municipalities of special state, areas of special state care and let's not call on them conditionally or do what we have to do. The time when we could only live on donations, by Caritas, by foreign donations, by social aid has passed. It can no longer be lived as it is from the rebuilding of houses. It is now simply a question of whether we are prepared to budget these municipalities in a fair way so that they can function as units of local self-government, that they can appear competent for projects they need to have in terms of agriculture, small entrepreneurship, livestock farming, fruit growing, tourism in some environments or we will not do so. I'm really not just saying this because it's either one group of returnees or settlers or another group of returnees or settlers. I think that time has passed, I think that these municipalities simply need to start treating them historically and how every country does when there's a problem with that kind of unbalanced kind of development that we have. My colleagues and colleagues, we have about 4,000 households, or 4,000 people, slightly less households in areas of special state care, with the wave of these municipalities I'm talking about that still have no electricity and they've been waiting 5 years for electricity to join them. That is why international donors provided significant money, which is why this country has provided insufficient but still significant money, but unfortunately these projects are not realised. Next year, I assume, Mr. President, under the auspices of this House, we will mark 150 years of the birth of Nikola Tesla, one of the greatest minds from Croatia, one of the greatest people if they can thus tell the Serb race. It doesn't matter what kind of family it is. That's not why he's brilliant, and that's not why he is. But can we afford to mark that 150th anniversary, and we have so many people behind us who won't have the same electricity that he gave to the whole world and to all of us. Or by planning that budget, we'll be thinking about doing this budget for the rest of the year, doing something to make things right. I understand, Mr. Minister, that this is not necessarily a matter of your ministry, but you are here now and a representative of the Government, and it is a matter of budgeting in a place where it is not carried out fairly or entirely. Second, when it comes to execution, I'm going to say it here on purpose. With us are those who should have social assistance, social aid is not available. Those areas that should be subsidized do not have subsidies. They have companies that someone will take over tomorrow and which are the subject of a dispute here or years between us and which someone will manage in a way that will certainly not be of particular benefit to the state or to those who live there. So wouldn't it actually be time for us to stop having social policy towards tycoons, pseudo tycoons and finally start having it towards those who actually deserve it, and that means for these municipalities and these areas and people who have the courage to live in such conditions that most of us don't just want to, but we couldn't. My colleagues and colleagues, in areas of special state concern at the moment, there are about 10,000 state-owned apartments. Most of the people who returned there for example in Vukovar were returnees, there were people or people who lived there, Serbs of origin have an interest in buying those apartments. Unfortunately, the state does not want to do so for some reason and does not want to pour about 2 billion kuna into its register. Why? We don't know that. We don't have an answer, even though we've been setting it up a few times. So they're a burden, they're untapped, and instead of strengthening the state budget and the budget of these units of local self-government and giving people what we've made possible to others on another occasion, we still don't have the courage or we don't have enough of what the hell we're supposed to do. And finally, Mr. Minister. This is the second year since we have a legal solution on how to resolve the issue of former tenant rights holders. And according to the housing insurance model by law passed several years ago during the coalition government. This is the second year so the guaranteed money doesn't get spent. 440 million kunas have been secured during this period, neither kuna nor lime has been spent. Although, if it were to go through the POS programme, it could provide between 500 and 800 apartments. So, basically, solve all those who have submitted housing claims so far. Instead, we have a case that we have a problem with housing rights back to the human rights court in Strasbourg and that Croatia has a problem in this respect not executing its own budget projections. And on the other hand, there are burdens on the international agenda, and what is particularly important is that people concerned, who at one time at a time took advantage of those apartments now as some have been waiting at a refugee camp in Sisak for 7 years to either return to their former apartment or to be able to get some accommodation from a state based on these funds. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45510	HSP representative club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45511	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A report on the implementation of the state budget is always in a certain way, I would say comes a man to the temptation to discuss the budget, not just the report on the budget, but I will try to avoid that attack, so I would indeed say a few quite concrete things on behalf of the club about the implementation of the budget. In fact, I can't get the impression that both planning and collecting and spending of budgets is taking place year after year by year on some poor platform from ten years ago and that nothing really changes. The inert of this bad weather, therefore, actually, from time to time, further disrupts the individual outflows of some powerful people who, in order to achieve some of their goals, are burdened by a new sentence or by an abnormal increase in an existing item. This report shows the consequences of such an approach, and for many of the budgets so far, and this is no exception, so we can say that they reflect some of the government's objectives. The problem that we see in HSP is that there are no targets, or they are not seen from the budget, and even less from the implementation of the budget. In order to cover up such a thing, it is conceptually stressed that at a half-yearly level we spent about 50% of the planned funds planned for this year. That should sound very logical, and it should mean that we have some balance between planned and spent. That is indeed exactly what the minister said, but only at the overall level. However, when you look below the cover of this book and read the content of the budget, it is seen that the trend of spending in many items is far higher than planned, and many items are far less than planned. In order to end, the total level will receive this indicated quasi-balance of approximately 50%. This actually means that the budget is poorly planned, and it is badly obvious and executed. When we add this to a poor budget charge, doubt is necessarily imposed, not only on the basis of the political, financial and economic skills of this ministry, this government, but in fact it is a question of serious knowledge of basic logical legality. So here's an example. Due to the availability, we borrow money, so for this year, a loan of nearly 2 billion from international financial organisations, namely a billion and 745 million is foreseen, and only 9.7% and 169 million kuna respectively were made. Uh, at first glance, very promising data. So we stopped external borrowing. However, we should not interfere with the thought that we planned it. And what is even more important is that loans from banks and other financial institutions outside the public sector have been received, popularly said "domestic loans" that are planned for only 18,816 thousand, 816 million kuna. Only in the first six months of the report, this report was made in comparison to 4 and a half billion kuna. Which actually means 555.6% increase from the planned so-called. domestic loans and, of course, they covered this alleged reduction in external borrowing. Of course, these domestic loans won't be enough to patch up all the holes, so we expect in the second part of the year to actually continue external borrowing. In the revenue side, the lower effect compared to the planned one is expressed in the means of alcohol, beer and oil derivatives, approximately 10 to 20%. Obviously, a reduction in the tax on these products should be considered and one of the basic financial legalitys should repeat that the tax reduction can ultimately be due to an increase in the consumption of total higher income. It should be noted that economic growth must always result in an increase in energy consumption, in particular oil derivatives. And the increase in their price and high tax, as is unfortunately the situation with us, is not the condition of any economic growth, but rather the opposite. They are ultimately a blow to improving citizens' standards. Analyzing expenditures, the first thought of the necessity of establishing a Commission on elemental logic, whose work might contribute and indicate that we need, for example, to plan and implement budgets. compare sizes, distinguish significantly from non-essential, etc. For example. The expenditure on professional training of employees is planned for nearly 100 million kuna, and was made in the first term of 19%, 19.5 million or 20%. In view of the current rules on professional training and in view of the current degree of technological development, there is no need for us to send employees to postgraduate studies which are not yet completed, nor can they be foreseen as some condition for the workplace, for studies, actually read courses abroad, which are not recognised by us and which cannot be verified with us. A large number of pointless seminars and counselling should not even be discussed. I'll say only one piece of data, 100 million kuna, as spent in the first one, planned for this year is enough to send 10,000 students to a postgraduate study every year. We, according to expenditures for this purpose, obviously have the administration of undereducated people. Because so much funding is meant for their education and training. That this is thus confirmed by the fact that intellectual and personal services are total planned in the amount of 573 million kuna, and were carried out in the first half of 218. So the services of external experts cost us the same as the expenses for several thousand employees in state bodies. I'll say a few more words about these services later when I talk about the ministries. But you know what's interesting. Such a state of "uneducated" under alleged signs is not compatible with the costs compared to official travel. I'm actually asking myself how I can travel and officially represent someone so undereducated. These costs for official travel are planned for nearly 200 million kuna, and in the first semester they were carried out at 74%, which is about 37%. Therefore, it is necessary to reduce and introduce, for example, a system in Switzerland where it travels only where a personal presence is necessary, because in today's state of audio-visual contact with many cases at the level of today's technology it is possible to establish a far cheaper way. And you can already almost audio-visually talk to your colleague Ferenchuck on your cell phone you don't need a bike for that. So I'm not talking about the Internet and everything. Costs for services, interesting one item. Take care in the first six months of this year for promotion and information services 36 million kuna. I'm asking myself who is in this financial situation of this country who is actually advertised here and who is who. But for the amount of only intellectual and personal services totaling 900 million kunas, therefore nearly a billion kunas can be employed by ladies and gentlemen no less than 90,000 people with a gross salary of 10 thousand kuna. If we add to this the costs of 100 million kunas that I have already mentioned for professional training, the need for a serious review of our administrative apparatus is once again raised. Because it's a total billion kuna for professional training and external intellectual services. At the above mentioned expenditures, as well as many that will be mentioned later, it is evident that only a third or a quarter of the planned annual funds were spent in half a year, which clearly and unequivocally indicates an inflating of the costs of planning that I finally spoke of on behalf of the club and when the budget was passed. It is sadder that those funds will, at the end of the year, be irrevocably tried to spend unnecessarily so that this same or higher amount could be requested next year. Subsidies to companies, craftsmen, small and medium-sized enterprises outside the public sector are planned at an annual level of 5.14 billion kuna, and were made in the first term of 1.6 billion kuna. In fact, this data points enough to us to the misery of economic policy if it even exists, because it's slightly less than a third. A specific part of the budget by budget users shows a large number of items and executions of only a few percent, which is a clear sign by our court that these funds were not really necessary. There are a number of cases that point to bizarreness within our system, which are proposed by the budgetors, i.e. budgetors. The government obviously doesn't care enough. For example, the Office of the Government for Internal Audit has planned 1,734 million kuna annually and was carried out in the first 6 months of 458. In recent years, one hyperinflation of various control and audit bodies has been observed and seen, in particular with regard to the setting up of internal audits across all state administration bodies. We have the State Audit Office, special internal audits, control offices, public procurement, financial police, inspections, etc. Has anyone ever compared their overlapping powers, their organisational organisational position, the level of performance of jobs, etc. And only a partial introduction shows us that some internal auditors have a better position than those who audit them, or from state auditors. Especially interesting costs for the purchase of construction facilities, it is interesting to say that new business facilities are constantly being purchased, for example. The finance ministry for business facilities envisions a expenditure of 135 million kuna, 36 etc was carried out in the first six months. etc. With the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, it is evident that all operating expenditures are very poorly planned. Especially interesting is spending again on intellectual and personal services. This body, as well as some other costs of personal and intellectual services, account for more than half of the expenditure for all employees. This kind of relationship shows that we actually need to double up, not double down on the state administration. This is also the situation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Intellectual personal services are planned in the amount of 30 million kuna, and that is actually another entire ministry. The cost ratio for employees versus personal and intellectual services varies from 1:10 to 1:20 in individual bodies, and some account for 1:1.5, so almost as much as for ministry employees. Obviously, the system of state administration, the system of work in these bodies and the staff policy do not hold water. For example, 2.7 million kunas for intellectual services have been provided at the Croatian Employment Service and nothing has been done in the first 6 months. From 2.7 million kuna. Carelessness for people with disabilities as well as many other social programmes is evident with the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities where 20 million kuna are provided and nothing is done. I seriously doubt the fund was even established. And to the end of the ladies and gentlemen. Given the small percentage of execution compared to the planned in almost all budgets... the following hypotheses can be set. Either the work and the effect will remain the same, and the funds will be spent needlessly in the second half of this year, or spending resources will continue to be spent for unnecessary use, and not using them to cover it up with some kind of budget rebalancing, or the government and state bodies will be squandered in the second part of the year and far more work in the second part of the year to achieve what is budgeted. On this last hypothesis, I wouldn't bet myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45512	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45513	Thank you, Mr. President. Representative Rosic said the budget was poorly planned because some items are below 50% some are more than actually not true. The budget isn't bad planned for that reason that all the macroeconomic indicators he's told us and that we have here are a guarantee of good and guaranteed are the achievement of the budget. Bad budget could be talked about at the end of the year. This isn't a six-month budget, so the plan is six months, so the execution would have to be 100%. At the end of the year, you will know exactly what the budget is, whether it is good or not, but I say all macroeconomic indicators say the budget will be 100% met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45514	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45515	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. These opening statements we heard at the beginning of Minister Shuker I believe you wouldn't be ashamed of the famous illustrious David Copperfield to sit in this House for the first time in our place. And he would probably believe that Croatian rivers flow honey and milk and that the Adriatic swimming pool will soon be yellow and sweet, instead of being blue and salty. The illusion was created on top-of-the-line movements, and this is highlighted by the statement, we never in the history of the Croatian state have such three-month movements as the Honorable Mr. Minister said. However, the illusion also left poor indicators. We do not mention too much of the lack and delay of incentives in the economy and agriculture, the lack of dividend payment for defenders despite this well-charged budget that we discussed yesterday about the privatisation of INA. We're not talking about having the biggest inflation in five years because she's missing by illusion. Also, the illusion disappeared and the decline in the standard of living of the citizens that is happening to us. Retirement of pensions relative to average wages, economic indifference, state over-indebted debt and the like. How long can this illusion take? Long enough if we compare ourselves to ourselves and stress only positively. It would be an interesting comparison with other countries in transition, to see what their growth is, what their exports are, what their employment movements are like. The main feature of the illusion is that it is unreal and that it lasts for a short time. In this case, only until the end of the presentation of the Minister of Finance, and then there is reality, and the reality is how this budget tells us. That he's not in any way social enough, that he's not at all developed and that he's not pre-accession at all. The public debt of the central state we have indicators of is 116 billion kuna if we include guarantees. Our foreign debt is 24 billion euros. However, it is unusual for us to use the illusions of this public debt. We're in public talking about how he's reduced, saying he's slowed down. But if we rule out the illusion, then its growth in 2004 is 14%, and this year we have a growth of actually an foreign debt of 10%. The right term without illusion is growth, not reduction. Of course, foreign debt has been increased in the gross social product by about 1%. But most importantly, Croatia has been brought into too much sensitivity to foreign movements, while at the same time it does not have a good balance with the inflow from abroad because despite some better trends in the movement of exports, it is not nearly enough. We are also too sensitive to any change in interest rates, to a possible new rise in oil prices. At the same time, loans in domestic banks, if domestic at all, amount to $160 billion. And most importantly, over 90% of these loans have foreign currency clauses. The disturbance, so that it could happen in the event of an expected growth in investment in the world, which will naturally collect and capital and bring interest growth is difficult to predict how this could end. However, do we have solutions for such movements? Hardly. For the simple reason that Croatia does not have a development strategy, but that is why we have a lack of "greenfield" investment. It's interesting that we don't have a comparison here with countries in transition because we want to create an illusion, we want to create an illusion that we are doing well in this area and that we have a significant shift in indicators. But what we certainly have is the lack of tax system discharge, the lack of reforms and the lack of new technologies. We still have old production capacity, here in the Parliament, and we ran the controversy that we had a car in the 90s, so no wonder what our economy was in. However, if in this year we reach the 90s tourism movement and moving into production, the question is if it was in the '90s so old and bad, whether the drivers or roads were better when we only now have results like 15 years ago. The main problem in Croatia is the too low rate of GDP growth. Despite these announcements that it could be an unexpected 4%, unexpectedly high 4%. However, compared to the developed countries of Europe, this relationship is 1:5. We also expect a reduction of subsidies from 3.7 to 2.2% in the gross social product. However, if we know that developed countries have 5 times the gross social product, and we are not going to make the adjustment adequate over a few years, then we can assume what kind of we really are and expect a reduction of subsidies and we will be even worse than countries that are more developed and countries that are in transition. We are talking here in Parliament and about the means of adaptation that await us when we join Europe. However, will your pre-accession funds be more adequate and will it be enough? We stress the most SAPHARD program to be used for agriculture and it is full of mouths. However, the reality is, if we exclude the illusion, that this SAPHARD programme by 2008 is worth 33m euros of which 25 million grants and 8 million from domestic sources. Which is actually 244 million kuna for farm adjustment by 2008. If we know that Poland has received 708m euros for the same things in agriculture, the Czech Republic 93m, Lithuania 92m, then we can actually imagine what that means. There is not enough resources in the budget to restructure agriculture and the economy, and I am stressing in particular the poor dynamics of enforcement. For all this, there are 76,000 companies in Croatia, but all 7000 or 10% of those who export. In fact, Croatia is a highly import-oriented country, which is best told by the indicators in this budget that the minister did not talk about. So if we look at how much VAT we have charged for importing goods and for services from foreign entrepreneurs, the figure is neither more than 10 billion 553 million or other, it is 73% of VAT revenue. However, we would also like to achieve a deficit of a consolidated general state of 9 billion. This is what we envisioned funding from domestic sources because we want to have slow growth in borrowing at foreign sources. However, in this way, we have also brought banks into a different position that are no longer interested in monitoring the economy but is easier to place in a country where interest is actually very attractive, which moves in any case over 5 and even 6%. But still our biggest problem is foreign debt for a very simple reason. Despite its slow growth, to use the term from these reports we have received, it grows 2 to 3 times faster than the gross social product. We have growth, so in 2004 we have 14%. Our gross social product is growing between 3.5% and 4%. In other words, we continue to spend much more than we do. In addition, the placement of these foreign exchanges from ino borrowing shall not be made against those who earn and who can use them for further development. Plasman ends in state spending or for the purchase of foreign goods, however, so far we are not looking for solutions and support for those who can again earn by selling products and services abroad. Croatian product and Croatian exports are still based on simple and traditional products in which natural resources and domestic resources are mainly incorporated. We must encourage the production of those products based on high-tech and knowledge and, of course, target the resources from this budget. The figures tell us that we didn't provide it, and we didn't do it in time, which is why the incentives in the economy were paid less than 5% or even 30% in agriculture with those frat figures that I was talking about that we haven't paid for the first six months or June or for the business zones of 100 million kuna only 600 thousand kuna. This year, it also says in the report the expected inflation will be 3%, which is the highest rate in the last five years that should be highlighted, we have been given an explanation from the minister about the oil prices and the prices of agricultural products. Of course, farmers had to calculate the price of bad and unfavourable weather conditions because they couldn't count on the state's aid of a billion kuna that they had from the damage to agriculture from weather disasters, we secured in the budget only 6 million kuna. It's hard to calculate as much as it is. However, whether INA must calculate into the price of fuel $60 per barrel, whether we can act on inflation through energy prices or fuel. Of course not. Here, it is not said that Croatia has its own needs or about 800 thousand tons of oil from domestic sources, here it is not said as INA itself sells that oil at 60 barrels and that it is actually its price in the production of about 25 barrels, which means a double greater invoice within the INA, which means too much fuel price, we are fighting around the price of 8 kn, even though it should be much lower in nature because the emphasis in production we produce over the production needs of oil, but in the calculation it is more than 60 euros or dollars per barrel. This results in a high profit by exploiting natural resources, we have too high a fuel price, and at the same time inflation, which I am also overly emphasising the highest in the last 5 years. It is absolutely certain that it does not have to be so, it is absolutely certain that this budget and its implementation should be more pre-accession-oriented, with significant support for reforms. However, if we want to be successful in this, then Parliament should today discuss us not on the implementation of the budget for the first six months but on the budget for the next year and with projections by 2009 when we are expected to join Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45516	Thank you very much. We have 8 corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45517	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I must correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague of the Pecek. At the beginning of his presentation on the State Budget Report, the distinguished colleague stated the following, the defenders were not paid a dividend. I have very carefully studied the report on the implementation of the state budget which I think is very high-quality and correctly drawn up, gives the right picture, the right state, I have studied all items from first to last and I have found no obligation for the Croatian state budget to pay the defenders any dividend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45518	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45519	Thank you, Mr. President, it's an incorrect allegation that the illusion of an illusionist, David Copperfield, is not an illusion at all, but the mirage of the illustrious prepares its points for a minimum of two years, its point of every preparation for a minimum of two years, this government hasn't had that much time yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45520	Third, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45521	It is an incorrect allegation that the presentation of accurate and positive macroeconomic indicators creates any illusion, on the contrary and the contrary, by the basis of incorrect data, of any reason creates a different or negative illusion. We can analyse any macroeconomic data that has been verified by the competent institutions of this country and we actually see in each of them that in your presentation to the Croatian public you wanted to give each other an illusion, an illusion of pessimism and an illusion that doesn't correspond to the true state of things we find in the execution or this report on the implementation of the budget for the first six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45522	The fourth correction is a respected representative of Šima Prtvenjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45523	So here's such a black hunch and I'm challenged by having to react with confirmations just having a hard time differentiating what the exact statements were, that is, being correct and being incorrect, because so much of it is impossible to make a particular statement about everything, however, about the illusion of economic movements primarily. Mr. Pacek, here's everyone together. Here's the position of the independent CNB monetary house from the day before yesterday and let me read it to you. And I'll let you get some education. With the growth of gross value added in industry of 8.6% in the second quarter and slight growth in the first quarter of 1.6, the contribution was higher in the first half of the year than in the last few years. Just one. Two, if I can make it, of course. Export growth was particularly seen in exports of 49% of machines in the total structure and 43% of food and drink in the total structure, which is the largest increase in the domestic industry. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45524	The fifth correction by Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45525	Dear Mr. President, the future colleague Tomljanovic has mostly corrected what I just wanted, so I'll just say it in class. The fact is, Mr. Pecek, it's not an illusion or something illusory because the budget, or the implementation of this budget that we're talking about today, is what it is, is real, real, only possible. And another part of it is because it corrects the good part of what left the legacy of a ministry known as the illusionist Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45526	Sixth Amendment of Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a number of incorrect allegations that Mr. Pecek said, it is as if the illusion of the Republic of Croatia's budget for the first half of 2005 is about macroeconomic indicators I correct in one part of its incorrect allegations. In the first 5 months, exports are up 4%, tourism revenues are significantly higher, as the total number of overnight stays is up 7.7%, foreign tourists 8.8%, and annual growth is 2.75. However, it is not an illusion that while Mr. Pecek was at the head of the Ministry of Trade, he gave 114,000 kuna in 2003 to the mayor of Požega for his firm in a 100% then-owned stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45528	The seventh amendment, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45529	Out of a whole series of incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Pacek, I would especially like to correct the one in which it says that the government is not investing enough in technological development. It's just not true, we were here the other day talking to an electronic document. I will mention that from the various points of the state budget only in this year, over 800 million kuna has been invested in the modernisation of information and communication technologies in the public administration. That's a fact, that's the exact information.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45530	And the eighth correction, the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pecek said that the borrowings remained in state consumption, so they were focused on state spending, which is not true because it was not necessary. The report says that state spending was a category that recorded a negative growth of minus 0.1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45532	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45533	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 208 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. I was talking about the illusion, I was talking about how I am looking at this budget report that was allowed, but it's not allowed for my colleague byte to insult me, because she and her husband were, in a good way, users of the budget funds through their businesses, and I never gave Mayor Požega any help, but was granted it from a local framework in the form of a credit line or I don't know what donations. It's completely incorrect, it's giving out false data and insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45534	My colleagues and colleagues and yesterday we had a situation, and I warned all my representatives. Correction of the incorrect claim, as the representative should be limited to the correction of the incorrect allegedness. You can't add a fellow byte. That's what you all do in a row. There are no MPs, they are rare and the exceptions are MPs who refer only to the correction of an incorrect allegation. I am correcting a concrete, certain claim by the MPs that I find incorrect and I end up here. Unfortunately, a supplement is constantly added where something else is thrown, added and commented. Let's not do that. Once, I should tolerate once that, once not, another time it would be declared that I insult the Rules of Procedure and restrict MPs in freedom of speech. Please take care of it. Comrade Lalic, please. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45535	Thank you very much. We'd have to ask for a break in front of the club, but I don't think that's necessary. You've all told through this note to Mrs. Byte, and it's equally about Mr. Dance. The addition and connection to something that has nothing to do with the truth at the same time muddles a fellow parliamentary representative is unnecessary in this club. Comrade Byte, I ask you to correct the incorrect allegations, not to add anything, not to say what I did not mention and not to correct what is not actually there. You were talking about indicators, but I have a different opinion about these indicators. I think there should have been a parallel between that and the transition countries, and I don't think these indicators are the brightest. It's my right to an opinion and please don't add it, because I will be forced and I will add everything I think should be for your character and action, as you say for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45536	Mrs. Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45537	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I presented the information relating to the reasons for macroeconomic policy, and as regards the addition I gave, it is true that the Ministry of crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship, Mr. Pecek has signed these documents, Mr. Pecek and I am in possession of these documents from the Ministry where he was assigned to the mayor of Požega for his company, 114 thousand kuna of grants, and I am sorry to say, but Pecek is telling the truth. My husband's firm never got one drop of no credit from neither the state nor anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45538	Thank you very much. Please don't go with the extras, because you see what it leads to again. We're done discussing clubs. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, because of the truth and because of playing with the feelings of Croatian defenders, I am obliged to present a single piece of information that some should have made, because they signed and participated in the Decision on the conclusion of the sale contract 25% plus the gold share of the INA "Mol", they should have known that, among other things, there is one provision that there will be no payment of dividends for 3 years. And all day yesterday, when a 7% of the shares were being transferred, the dividend payment was abused, and that's what we're talking about again today. If it's signed in the contract, no matter who signed it, whether it's good or bad, it's an obligation for those who go on. Therefore, if in the contract with "Mola" it was signed that there would be no payment of dividends for 3 years, and Mr. Pecek spoke in his presentation of the dividend of the INA.... Wait, can I say it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you called on me that there was no means to pay dividends to the defenders in the budget. As much as I remember in the first six months when a regular HT dividend was paid, the defenders and the Defence Fund won for their 7%, and in the INA sales contract "Mol" said there would be no dividend payment for 3 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45540	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45541	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. But the INA Privatisation Act, Mr. Minister, is stronger than the contract. The law states in Article 7 that the shares will be transferred immediately as soon as the fund is established. That's what we talked about yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45542	Please, Minister, it's not. A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45543	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the law is stronger than the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45544	The minister made a statement as to what was in the contract. That, you've now commented on what, the relationship of the contract and the law. It's a different thing, but you weren't correcting an incorrect assumption, and that's not what's in the contract. This can be corrected by an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45545	Excuse me, Mr. President, he said it couldn't be transferred for the contract. I said the law is stronger than the contract. ... That's right, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45546	SDP club. Here you go. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45547	... We are opening a debate on how the Minister of Finance is trying to influence the work of the Parliament by talking about yesterday's debate. [[Last-on speaker]] I want to say very clearly, the contract with "Mol" and the government's decision do not have any equal facts. Yesterday's government's decision is not so important for dividends and INEs because the dividends were not there because they covered the cubes. The dividend last year is also irrelevant because it is also important to cover the loss of investment but the decision is important for HT dividends. And it's embarrassing when the minister tries to dispute the debate in the Parliament, and deny the need for debate from his thinking, I would ask that we try to understand. We're talking about the government's decision, the dividend because it's an important decision on HT, which we haven't seen, which we don't have to approve of. And that's why it's an important term that speaks when they're paid off since the dividends. And the subject was just that fact. But it's something else. Can the Minister of Finance try, talk about a parliamentary debate about yesterday? It's something on behalf of the club, let's not go back to it. Every one of us, every club has its own program, its own activity, and it's unacceptable for the minister to tell us what we're not going to say. Unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45548	All right, gentlemen, the minister has said, the minister has said, the minister has made it clear, please, for the last time I warn you to stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I won't allow a single minister or a member of the government to throw in and comment and talk to MPs through the throw-offs. The minister mentioned, he kept an important reference to one fact, and why make it a special problem? We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45549	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, with your closest associate, colleagues and colleagues. I personally see the implementation of the state budget as one perfectly normal consequence, not exactly the normal state of affairs in a country where deception is the only means and illusion is the biggest product. It seems that the government really spends all of its intellectual potential, all of our own, on our very modest ability to create impressions, create illusions, create smoke curtains. How to create the impression that in public things are moving, that they're being run, that promises are being made, and the facts are unquestionably speaking differently? This is read from the implementation of this budget. The fact is that as the first non-fulfilment of the promise promised in the adoption of the state budget as it was claimed on behalf of the Club, our Slavko Linic that he had been increased, it is an irrefutable fact that the deficit of the state budget has been increased. That the external debt has grown, that it is constantly growing, that it has grown compared to 2004. On the other hand, there is a weaker growth in economic activity, it gave up on those important investments, just to mention the Croatian railways, which we will certainly have more opportunities to talk about, which imposes the necessity of the importance of this topic of HEP, INA. The fact is that the lower the full budget, the non-payment of commitments from the budget, and no matter how many ministers you try to prove otherwise. It's a fact for you, I'm just, here's saying correcting your incorrect quote in this regard, that it's not being fulfilled even when it's the defenders. This is also best seen by the fact that it is very dangerous because we have somehow tried to contain it by 2003, you will see it well in statistical indicators how the state has become the biggest debtor again. Most of the disputes against the state are being re-run, and it is on the rise. You're nodding now, you're saying the commitments made by the last government. She tortured for four years because they came to collect, after 10 years they came to collect the verdicts where individually because of such averages, I'll say only average defaults, individually came to the individuals physically somewhere up to a million kunas. That's what the last government met, individually, by one natural person I'm talking about, 800, 900 with interest. With the same interest that you've announced to me that it's a loan shark, that you're going to stop them. You have continued to allow banks except for the application of the new Bond Act, which, as far as it would bring order in the area, has suspended that provision for two years. Now it's clear why. So, you say one thing, this is just on the way to saying one thing and doing something else. The prices are going up, the standards are going down, you've raised employees in the state administration, you're not answering questions, because I've been asking the question for the third time, and I'm not getting an answer to how many new people are employed, so I guess in the government they're pretending not to understand. So I ask the individual how many new ones in each ministry, and then they're talking about the total number, etc., so you can't see the visibility of how much that's been increasing for the last two years. Well, then there's nothing left for me but here's one more time to ask you the complete government, and I'm going to have to use my legal right to re-apply to the Administrative Court. But here's to concretely go back and explain how true this is and what I'm saying is it's not about any political bickering. What counterpart Linic also said, which is a review of the execution according to the obligations created. So, even though the state owes some of the things that automatically go according to contracts or legal obligations are fulfilled up to 60, 70, 80%. And apparently, there will be no means behind such a sequence and that we can talk about the indifference of the end of the 12th month. However, what is even more worrying is the poor achievement of economic, low performance of programming expenditures that can be interpreted in two ways and I believe it is both. Not only small and insufficient funds, for these programs that are very important but also such small and insufficient funds have been spent up to 20% in general. In the range of zero in important things, hiring people with disabilities to those that mean institutional strengthening of institutions. State institutions in terms of adaptation and implementation of reforms. And that's what I think is particularly worrying. For example, what is now waiting for us in the open negotiations harmonising laws and other acts, these are the funds spent all of 30 percent of what is, in any case, insufficient in such a single scale and one of such primarily important activities right now. It has been announced that this is precisely why I support the fact that there is a discrepancy between what is said and reality. Governments are full of mouths of almost every member of it individually and all together as here we create a modern administration, a modern government. The Centre for Professional Training of Civil Servants and 3,46% of minor funds are being spent. How state assets are managed and the funds are spent very badly, and that was a good concept that the former government started to settle at all, so that it would know and record its own assets at all. Those appropriations, which are authorised to coordinate the adaptation process with the standards and policies of the European Union in minors, shall be implemented. From 14, about 14%. About scholarships for postgraduate studies, so we announced Croatia as a country... Only 17%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm saying that otherwise, very, very modest means for these programs and approved. In strengthening the state administration in support of these networking programmes, all state registers are only 15%. The state inspectors have recently been discussing amendments to the law. We all agreed on how important it is to strengthen the State Inspectorate. To give him a whole series of instruments to make it as effective as possible, and there is certainly information about the inspectorate itself that is one of the important factors in the ability to control. Only 19% of the funds were spent there, and more than 2 million kunas were granted, which I believe were the necessary funds. A whole series of further social programmes that are very important for Croatia has not been achieved or reached by up to 15%. And according to the weakest and the weakest. And I'd still like to say something very important, which we are right now with the ineffectiveness of the state administration we're going to additionally burden the judiciary, and I'm just going to say, for example, even though a lot of talking about it, we've provided a special, big building that would be able to handle the issues and the staff team and the ability of the great problems of the Croatian judiciary which is Split [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] It didn't do anything. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45550	Seven rectifications of incorrect allegations. That's what we're gonna do. First respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45551	Mr. President, in a series of incorrect allegations, an esteemed colleague, I would only correct two. First, quote. The esteemed representative said: "The government is ruling in a way that deception is the only means of rule." I repeat: deception is the only means of rule. Another incorrect allegation: "The government suspended the provision of the Law on Mandatory Relations that prevents the application of the provision of high interest or interest rates. So both allegations are incorrect, incorrect. When it comes to the Law on Mandatory Relations in this House, we passed a law that allows for a delay in application. So not only has the government not suspended that provision of the law but it is neither constitutional nor legal nor able to suspend the provision of this law which we have therefore voted here. And as far as the first quote is concerned, it actually reflects everything that you wanted to tell the public in your debate, and I am personally interested in what you did so well, so why are you in opposition today? It's a really interesting situation. Everything you've...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45552	Thank you very much. Let's not go with the extras. Second correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45553	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's probably a guilty allegation, or it's because of the court's payments due five, six years ago. My colleague probably meant the fees that were made two and three years ago by not paying off cops and educators of regressions and goddesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45554	Thank you. Third, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45555	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said that the lower the budget is being filled, which is not true. The budget is fully realistic and I am sorry that my colleague is not familiar with the annual budget and I doubt that she would be happy if we were to consider the next six months at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45556	Fourth, respected representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45557	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Anticevic who said that this government is the only means and the illusion is the only product. I'd like to make it right. The deception was from the last government when the IMF, the World Bank and the entire Croatian people were deceived that the deficit in the 2003 budget was 4.7, not 6.3% as far as it was found. And the illusion is their government's statement that, that we live well just so we don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45558	The Fifth Amendment is the Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45559	Here's only two. One of them. The illusion of poor economic growth. I will repeat the independent CNB monetary house, which is the government critic otherwise, she says, "In the second quarter, the growth of gross added value of 5.1% was achieved which was recorded in the last year and a half. Secondly, the incorrect finding says that in the absence of payment of obligations to defenders, it has previously been tied through a correction related to the Galovac municipality. I would make it right if it weren't true but that it is true that in the previous government Galovac municipality was financed under party duty from a state budget beyond the Law on the financing of local administrations and self-government. And it still doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45560	My colleague Antičević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45561	.../The speaker is subsequently involved./... what is this about because the matter here is already clear. My colleague distorts my exact claim and thereby abuses Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President has distorted my exact quote. Here's a letter or fax from Mr. Slavko Share.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45562	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Anticevic, you will never understand and understand and accept the Institute's correction of an incorrect allegation. You, as a representative in your debate, have made a certain claim. The representative of the Chest stands for that claim as incorrect. And you're answering, you're reporting to correct the correction of an incorrect quote under the company of the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to tell you again because permanently, this is every time you report under the company's breach to the Rules of Procedure for correcting an incorrect allegation. Please hold on to that. If you hold that the incorrect claim in correcting the incorrect quote is very well known that you cannot correct it with the method and application of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning about the permanent violation of the Rules of Procedure. I can't take it anymore. Don't ask me, nothing, the Rules of Procedure is clear. Read it in the Rules of Procedure. She's got it. It's very clear. He's got it. The Sixth Amendment, Honorable Representative Velimir Pleša, and I implore the ladies who are honored not to receive me permanently. Call me, and you'll be fine if we hurt the Rules of Procedure. If it isn't then the sequence is further. Here you go. I'm warning you last time, colleague Lalic, that you're not throwing me out of the bench. You don't have any discussion with me about that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45563	Thank you very much. In a number of incorrect allegations, counterpart Anticevic said the government had hired a number of new employees and that the number on her enquiries was unknown. You know the number. In the 12th month of 2003, when the former government in which she was also a minister was also leaving, there were 175 thousand 922 employees, and in the eighth month of 2005, there were 176, 127 employees. The difference is 205 employees who mainly refer to police officers who should have returned to work who were unjustly fired at the time of your government, and at the same time the question that you would like to impose on this government is also incorrect, which I might ask you, then the question of how much obligation remains unpaid by you as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45564	Thank you. And the seventh correction by the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45565	In a whole series of incorrect allegations, I especially want to correct the one in which I quote that illusions are the only product of this government. That's not only not true, but I'd say it's offensive. Statistical data are clear, economic growth 4%, export growth, deficit control and many other facts show that there are results, and the illusions unfortunately, many of your illusions have become reality during the work of this government. Croatia has started negotiations, don't forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45566	Honorable representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45567	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The first semester of this year is really atypical. Also, the report on the implementation of the budget in the first half does not show enough, because some item opened 20%, and let 80 ultimately not mean much to the budget. The minister spoke about the budget and about the overall economic situation optimistically and the government spoke very optimisticly. However, I think we need to add certain assessments of the problems here. Namely, without balance and good but also big problems, we can hardly get a real and objective assessment. Without it, there is no conclusion that could lead to proper activities in the next period. That is why I will choose and warn on the occasion of this report on the implementation of the budget for five moments. The first was the government declared as one of its main tasks of re-branding finances. It was not quite moderate to say so, nor correct, since finances had not been settled before, especially if we had in mind the state of '99, the liquidity of interest that was then monthly as they are now yearly and higher, etc. However, the fact is that it would be good to talk about how much we and how we handle finances and to pay more attention in the country especially because it is unfortunately still honorable to cheat on the state, avoid paying taxes and also pay taxes to its country as if it were paid to Vienna, Belgrade or Pesti, etc. So, the problem of resource collection efficiency, but also the rationality of spending is a problem that is not talked about, which is still very much present from excise duty to gray economy, to debt management, to control etc. That's the first one. The second thing I'd like to warn you about is the area of development. In the period 2000 to 2003, respectively, the state took a stronger role in development and can be said to have been given an incentive to economic growth. There were 5 strong programmes that started in 2000 from infrastructure to the Fund for Development and Employment, the Regional Development Fund. I must warn that these funds have played a very important role, because, gentlemen, you cannot expect, for example, German, Italian, Austrian banks in Croatia to finance Croatian projects that will compete with their products and, for example, from one of these funds, we have financed today a product that is world-class, which is the bitterness of the FBI, etc. In order to protect what Mr. Pecek was talking about, I must say that much has been done in terms of small and medium enterprises. I've known numbers in the past. Of the 27 zones, after 4 years 200 and almost no more, etc. The government's budget goes on in some ways during that period, but the fact is next. A stronger development move is needed in Croatia. A specific Croatian development initiative is needed, which would mean something that in other countries meant their projects for faster economic development. Growth, which means the sequence of the population-used trend of others, is not enough for us. There are, therefore, at least three large projects at this time. I'm not going to talk about them here, which should immediately turn the government into a stronger project at national level and support it from the budget. So the problems and these species exist, they're not seen enough. We don't have the edge of development policy to do anything more in economic development. The third thing I'd warn you about is this liquidity problem because it's been talked about all the time and here. Mr. Minister says there's no liquidity problem. Gentlemen, I say there is a great irregularity in Croatia's payments and it particularly affects smaller entrepreneurs. He's hitting 'em because they're being pushed by big private companies, and so is the state. I've been told by some companies, but they asked me not to report it and not to talk about it publicly because then they won't get a job from the state. So what kind of state are we and what kind of agent do I have to accept? So that's not a European path. In Europe, payments are made within 14 days, both by the state and by everyone else. The situation with us is nowhere near that, and this problem must not be minorized by arguing that there is no problem of indifference, the state fulfils its obligations. The fourth one I'd like to warn you about, the privatisation of the INA at this point in my assessment is problematic. I know very well what budget problems are, revenue in the budget, etc. But especially after a conference in Johannesburg today, no serious company is going to privatise in the oil economy for a number of reasons. Neither is it possible to establish its price, since there is no way to determine or know anything about the price of oil and how much INA is worth today, given the sources of its oil in Syria, etc., nor has INA done what was supposed to be modernized and so that it would be. And on the third hand, before privatising INA, it is necessary to see exactly what will be its place in the further Croatian economic structure, so I recommend that the problems be resolved differently and not continue with force in this way. And finally, I want to say this, gentlemen, we have a problem and insufficient incomes and excessive expenditures and let us all be aware of that in this country. We have a problem with the unreformed administration, we have a low wage problem in the administration. Tax inspectors with high professional training and 20 years of internships have minor salaries. We have a big problem and income and expenditure and therefore we have a big deficit problem. Therefore, we will still have a big problem, unfortunately, of public debt. The fact is, therefore, that the total public debt, not the debt of the state externally, because it was not such a problem, but the total foreign debt of the state is growing. You've got it, and you've naturally figured it out because what else are you going to do, on 400 and some page, is now 83% of the social gross product. A high external debt, unfortunately, would have been even greater if the possibility of borrowing on the domestic market had not been created. However, on the domestic market it means that... and a certain sucking of other potentials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] True, the one about operations with the Croatian National Bank somewhat successfully prevailed in this regard. So how much of a basis does it have to say that based on this budget it's hard to talk about what it's going to be by the end of the year if there's a basis to say that in the second quarter, there are trends that are more positive. So, unfortunately, there are many problems that we all need to take seriously, and they are not sufficiently talked about here and we should establish a stronger move in these areas that I am talking about on the part of the Government, especially at a point where we wish to successfully join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45568	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Here, I can also accept the Minister's thesis how, since we have economic flows, everything is generally fine. However, if so, I cannot accept that certain things that are of development, of importance for the development of this country, are very little or not executed, not only in the first 6 months of this year, but we discussed this when we talked about the implementation of the budget and last year. Mr. Minister, speaking of sending people to whom something hasn't been paid, here I have a wartime military invalid who's been given a solution since September last year and I realize that something didn't pay off for him last year. It was, the solution was issued last year. However, it is not clear to me that Josip Pokos of Varazdin, who is a Croatian military invalid, cannot achieve certain financial contributions because it is said to account for the amount of pension paid for the same period. It will be paid after the funds in the state budget are secured. You can now as an opposition object to us from this side, you left it to us as a debt. Yes, but that's why we lost the election. And why don't you do what you promised? Here, I'm going to give the minister this solution and I hope he reacts without delay to secure the money for this Croatian military invalid. But let's go beyond what's extremely important to this country. Here, at the beginning of October this year, finally and finally we are pleased to establish and share the mood that Croatia has started formal negotiations on entering the European Union. We are also aware that the area of agriculture will be one of the most difficult areas for us to meet and precisely because our village on one side, but complete agriculture does not stand the most brilliant. I'm sorry there's no Minister of Agriculture here right now, so let me ask him specifically and very clearly. Why in the first 6 months, if there is money in the state budget, if farmers have submitted all the necessary documentation to state institutions, then why is 0 kuna paid in support to non-community farmers, but also to commercial farms? In the first 6 months in the area of the Varazdin County, no farmer has received that money. I can ask what the reasons are. Is it the triangulation of the administration or is it the guilt of the Treasury that didn't pay what it needed? Also, the question is, we are sworn in rural development, because we know that the village and agriculture will most difficult to adapt to the conditions of entry into the European Union. Why, then, is 20 million kuna for intervention of the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture an execution of 0 kuna? Why is there an 80 million kuna realisation of 0 kunas to raise many years of pestilence and demand? Here, on page 278. Why beef instead of 40 million kunas to make at least half of it worth it. 0 Kuna at the same time, we complain that we have a herd too little and that we have too much imports of agricultural products, even in livestock. We know what our state of fishing is, for the construction of fish markets, the realisation of 0 kunas. We keep talking and budgeting for last year, for the irrigation project, 0 kuna was. And for these first six months, it's 0 kuna. I'm just asking who at the Department of Agriculture doesn't do their job? What are the reasons that instead of, means a irrigation system that at least something used money? However, the fact is, the season of work when it can be done slowly nears the end, the money is not spent. Land planning is a special item. We know that Croatia has a fragmented small property and I can't believe again that we haven't spent a single kuna on that area since 5 million kuna. We are witnessing that there have been harmful effects of water this year. But we didn't use any of that money, of the money we planned. I'd like to hear from a minister or other members of the government who should be here to explain to us what the reasons are. But in reason, we only have execution items 0. Also, 58 million kuna for water supply systems nothing. We know that in the lower Posavlje, lower Posavina, we also had damage to the floods, to the use of 0. Hence, it is obvious that someone either does not do his job either consciously or unconsciously and does not do what he should do. I ask you, by the way, Mr. Minister, what are the reasons for the first six months that units of regional and local self-government have received only 33% of the projected funds through the state budget. I ask you an explanation, maybe it's an election, so you've been waiting for the constitution of new authorities in municipalities, cities, counties, so you can transfer them money or maybe it's a lack of project, but I expect and I think it would be correct to say what the reasons are. Because units and regional and local self-governments have the resources in their budgets according to 12 spend them and everything else, obviously there have been problems with spending that money. Because if they do not receive regular incomes, neither can they fulfill their obligations. As far as other ministries are concerned, here's the thing, and I'd like someone to correct me if I'm misreading the data. We know that we had an establishment and that was written in the media, that we had, that we were to establish a multi-purpose helicopter service, that almost 20 million kunas were foreseen. In addition to what we read in the media that the tender was cancelled, I don't know why, so one of these things is, here we have our capital city of Zagreb blocked because of the arrival of these presidents, which is a positive thing. However, that is why we must have chaos because some other modes of transport and modes of transport are not used, how many losses and economies are lost, and why our citizens are not established, probably this helicopter service would probably make it easier and safer for these statesmen to reach their places. We swear on rural tourism and tourism in general, here it is from nearly 8.5 million kuna to encourage rural and cultural tourism spent zero kunas. I simply cannot believe that no one in Croatia has filed any request for the use of this money. As far as rail traffic is concerned, I fully understand the minister when he says we have invested more in Croatian railways than you have in earlier periods. However, I would like to explain why and what are the reasons why only 20% of the money envisaged was spent for the modernisation and construction of the regional railways, and for the modernisation and construction of local railways from the estimated 18 million kunas and kunas. It is obvious that this government, through the Croatian Railways and the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Railways, gave up the construction of a local railway line from Vinkovec towards Osijek which was needed and was said to be built very quickly last year, however, there is nothing. Demining is done, projects exist, I would like to hear what is the reason that Vinkovci, especially a large number of students and students, will not be able to reach Osijek in 20 minutes, 30 minutes, or this government, instead of rail transport, thinks that better and better this road transport although we know that railways are wherever and where cheaper and everything else is. I see I'm beginning to light up and a warning that I'm about to end. We all complain and talk about the difficult situation in both primary and secondary schools related to addiction and violence that is happening more and more in our primary and secondary schools. Well, I can't figure it out, I'd like one of you to explain to me what the reasons for the prevention of school violence are, that not a full 12% of the planned money has been spent. About national minorities and textbooks and school books and in general books that should come into school libraries and libraries, enough is the information for the provision of school libraries with mandatory literature and professional literature from the projected 6 million kuna implementation of zero. I can understand that it may be a periodical, waiting for the end of the school year and that something better and better will be at the end of this period, but it seems to me that given the state of our publishing and publishing and this would be an important help to make sure that these money is really spent, and on the other hand that our primary schools have all the necessary lessons for students who can't afford to buy such books. This is for now, it seems to me that with everything government representatives are trying to say that the situation is great, then it seems to me that if the situation is really great, we should press all those officials and the ministries, but also all the state-owned companies that need to do their part of the job, that we do not have the potential lack of projects to spend money on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45570	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, it is an incorrect assumption that the Vinkovci-Osjek railway is going into construction. The Vinkovci-Osjek railway is being renovated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45572	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Maria Lugaric's turn. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45573	Dear Vice President Baby, Mr. Minister. For 2006, take off a kilo for pedagogical reasons to show that it is necessary and that it is possible to save in this country. I will deal with my discussion by analysing the case of Kay Stadium, which is very significant, it refers to one item of the state budget. I will remind you colleagues and colleagues that only my individual amendment has been accepted as an amendment to the HSP club that I belonged to on that occasion, that 15 million kunas are detached from the state budget for the construction of the mountain road from Šošic to St. Gera, the mountain road of the model cardinal Dr. Frana Kuharic. Since then, there's been a long time since I've spoken to you personally, Mr. Minister, on several occasions, which you confirm with your head. I've spoken to Minister Calmet on several occasions, which will confirm both by nod and verbally. I spoke to the Prime Minister. And what's going on? How does a specific infringement of the State Budget Act occur? Mr. Minister has transferred 15 million kunas to Croatian roads, I have spoken to the director of Croatian roads on several occasions, I am one of those people who is never late for meetings and who never publicly deny his own words and I don't know what to do and how to talk to people from that region again. It is a small community, mainly in the secular sense of USKOK, in the religious sense of Greek Catholics, headed by their Reverend Milo Vranasic. The road was made, rough works were made, but the money from the Croatian roads never arrived on the county roads, and no kuna was paid from the county roads to the contractors. I don't know what else to do. I have a few explanations purely theoretical for this situation. When the money wasn't paid at the end of last year, I thought it was part of the ruling party's reasonable strategy not to somehow build a road before the presidential election and that I would climb up with the civil forces at that time and win that military one, so I thought let's let HDZ support Jadranka Kosor, be it for them. But if money doesn't pay off now, it's a serious thing. There are several new explanations. One thing's very plasible, which is that it doesn't want to build that road. Namely, that road has some kind of curse. Pra pra dictator Franjo Habsburgi promised the local population that he would build that road so he did not build it, so the head of the evil Ante Pavelic also came there and promised the local world that he would build it so he did not build it, so the late Dr. Franjo Tudjman appeared, so he promised not to build it. Now there's a chance that she'll be built. However, which, if built, make sure that I organise a peaceful march of Slovenians and Croats in the spring, that we finally demilitarize the military on St. Gera. It's one of the two last occupied areas in modern Europe, so the other is the Charengrad Ada where one peaceful invasion and this one should also be made. So like your government, Mr. Shucker, he doesn't want us to get that military, you have to say that. Another possible explanation that in Croatian roads people are ready, I don't know who, to corruption. To expect someone to pay them something, to give them that money. So I'd end up with that. I thank each individual colleague in this assembly for adopting this amendment, and I thank you ministers for giving the money to the Croatian roads. However, I strongly resent you for your own authority and authority of the presidents of your government and Kalmeta, that this young director of the Croatian Roads did not give that money to people and that you and I could go there with Mr. Pasecki, that we could look people in the eyes and go to Saint Gero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45574	Thank you very much. Here's one particular thing, and I think it's specific that it should be resolved that it's unwarranted to delay it further. It's Mrs. Representative's turn, Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45575	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will focus my discussion on carrying out a specific part of the budget by activities and projects of the users. Only 11% of the planned funds have been spent in the Department of Finance's division for the House Savings Project, and it is known that individual amounts of these incentives have been reduced, so it seems to me that the whole project is actually being questioned. For the programme of implementation of specific fire protection measures under the State Department for Protection and Rescue of the Ministry of Interior, a little more than 3% were spent, mainly on ongoing maintenance. Less than 2% of the funds were spent on firemen's equipment, and for the Civil Protection Programme, nothing. Is it necessary to wait for crisis situations to cry over themselves as the situation surprised us and who, in that case, would be responsible? As usual, I'm afraid, no one. In the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the law affirmation activity and policy improvement for people with disabilities were implemented with over 300% of the planned funds. You heard right, 300 percent. However, when we were bringing back the government budget rebalance this summer, this item was reduced by 27% compared to the original plan for this year, so I don't know what it's really about. Is it a mistake or something? I'd be happy if someone would explain it to me, even though I'm afraid I won't get an answer. It is a similar situation with support for programmes aimed at children and young people. Council activities for children and child rights affirmation and child protection were achieved with less than 25%, the Government's Committee for Persons with Disabilities with about 5%, and the Government's Committee for Prevention of Disabilities in Child and Youth Disabilities and Projects for Multi-member Families with less than 2% of the planned funds. We know that the total funding for these projects has been reduced by 40% compared to last year, so this kind of achievement has led to the conclusion that these projects are also slowly giving up. Based on programmes related to military people with disabilities and defenders, it is noticeable that only around 300,000 kuna or only 6% of planned 5.8%, 5.8 million were spent for medical aid and rehabilitation of military disabled people, and for assistance to state offices and units of local self-government. When we look at programmes related to intergenerational solidarity, or older citizens, it is evident that they are all filled together with barely 20 percent. And now, when we count the programmes that were cancelled last year and the implementation of the budget items this year, I am forced to conclude that this ministry, apart from regular transfers for children's allowances, maternity leave, disability and pensions, and one-time payments to the defenders, will soon have nothing to do, because new projects are not or are only cosmetics for single use, and the old are slightly or slightly abandonable. More than 30 planned development programmes and activities in the first half of the economy, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship received no lip, and 10 received less than 5% of the total planned 220 million kuna. Among these programmes, the most relevant are crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises. I will also mention a specific multi-annual programme from my neighborhood, mostly because of the population of Bakar living on polluted land or in its immediate vicinity. It's a program of decommissioning the Bakar Koksara, for which only 21% of the planned funds have been spent. I wonder when this dynamic investment will complete the decommissioning of kosara and land recovery. It seems that the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is intended for the same fate as its timely Alimentary Fund, because of the planned 20 million kuna is not spent or lipa, and it seems that it will not liven up a project of the National Institute for Nuclear Security and that these projects will remain only at the level of ideas. In the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, there is also a whole series of planned promotional and development programmes for which no lip has been spent in the first term. It is close to 250 million kuna in the 60th programme, among which prominent places are held by those intended for farmers, and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Among them, I would like to mention water supply projects, and in particular the regional institution, the regional water pipeline Gorski Kotar, for which of the planned 2 million has also not been spent, even though it is known how vital this project is for the citizens of Gorski Kotar. In the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, I will only limit myself to a sport chapter where the execution of the plan is more than 56% or 40 million kuna. If we remind ourselves that originally planned sports rebalancing funds from 71 are reduced to 62 million kuna, i.e. 12%, I wonder how sport will survive by the end of the year with the remaining 22 million without an additional injection. It is again shown that the basic funds of 30 million kuna for the Croatian Olympic Committee are indeed insufficient and that it is necessary to increase them. And here we have 13 programs for which by the end of June no kuna has been singled out, and reading budget rebalancing, we see that 5 programmes of 2.9 million kuna have been completely abolished, and they refer to preschool and school sports and sports development programmes. Programmes related to HIV infection and AIDS sufferers within the Ministry of Health and Social Care are planned at around 9 million and execution is less than 1%. Programmes of 25 hospitals predict a total of 167 million, of which approximately 8 and a half million or only about 5% were realised. I must point out here that for the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Center of the planned 40 million and a million for the Lovran orthopedics clinic in the first term, no single lip was singled out. It is a very similar situation with centres for social care and homes for children, or mentalally ill adults. The implementation of the plan is 6.8% in the division of the Regional Development Fund. Out of the total estimated 77 million kunas, the County received 3.8 million and some counties there amounting to approximately 5% of the planned funds. I would like to point out that the Primorje-Gorski County has not received anything from the projected 2.8 million, and Istria has received some 16%. To return to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development for a moment where there are 30 projects for which approximately 200 million kuna is planned, but realisation in the first half is also flat zero, and it mainly refers to the island's transport problem, river transport and tourism promotion. Statistics of abandoned programmes or programmes during the abandonment phase continue through the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, which spent a total of 28% of the funds. In 35 programmes worth more than 180 million, zero to 10% of the funds were spent. This is mainly about environmental activities. And to recap, I see I've turned on the light. In view of just a few budget divisions and several ministries, I found about 150 programs for which no kuna was spent in the first term. It seems to be a continuation of the government's programme so far, which reads: "no projects, no programmes and no developments in the Republic of Croatia and should not be". What happens when the remaining national resources are divided or sold out? We can only imagine. The government obviously doesn't know or doesn't understand or won't realize that Croatian citizens have to eat something and live on something. Unfortunately, this report also shows that this way of working our perspective is far in the fog, where the government as a geese has strayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45576	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Trakostanec Ivana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45577	Mr. President, I must correct Mrs. MP's statement that there is no amount in an item does not mean that there is an activity. Therefore, to know the methodology of the budget and the Accounting Act which requires that items are kept only when invoices are issued and when it is paid to put it into the budget, therefore, does not mean that no activities have been carried out which are also invoiced, which will be shown on the report on the 2005 Budget in full. So here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45578	Thank you. It's Ms. Nevenka Majdenic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45579	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. If a realistic analysis is to be made of the implementation of the State budget for the first half of any half-year, then at least 3 of the following factors must be respected. And that is to reach the level of economic development as the starting basis for alimony of budgetary revenues. An economic, monetary and tax policy that is intended to be implemented in the long term and third, macroeconomic conditions that condition budget implementation. With respect to these factors, the achievement of budget revenues of €39.8 billion or €45.9% of planned for the whole year is quite realistic, as in general the economic achievement in the first term is always weaker than in the second half. This is especially because the results of the two primary branches of our economy, agriculture and tourism can only be demonstrated in the second half of the year, and the construction activity begins to intensify only in the second quarter. Also, nothing less important is the fact that total budget revenues increased by 7.3% compared to the same period in 2004. Income from business, taxes, contributions, proceeds from assets, administrative fees and other revenues increased by 7.2% compared to the previous year, and they account for 99.7% of total revenues and are most important for the assessment of revenues by the end of the year. These indicators clearly show that the government's policy does not go in the direction of the sale of state assets, which is often said, since the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets account for only 0.3% of the total revenues that are insignificant to the implementation of the budget. The tax revenue structure can detect a significantly weaker income from income tax. The reason is the return of taxes on the tax returns of citizens who have accelerated significantly. This is ultimately the consequence of the government's tax policy and tax reform. On the other hand, the increase in income from profit taxes by 33.7% almost 600 million kunas according to 2004 confirms that our economy is developing. Because already in 2004, it achieved a profit which is the basis for calculating and paying the advances of this form of tax. In the case of income from contributions, a somewhat slower growth in pension insurance contributions can be observed by 1% of the contribution to health insurance. But the reason, as the finance minister said, is that certain groups are contributing to the second pillar of pension insurance. As for the expenditure side of the budget, implementation followed the plan. Which means the budget expenditures came to an end at 50.35%. This implementation of the expenditure enabled users of the budget to work normally, while the financial commitments they had taken could have been carried out neatly. This primarily refers to the payment of interest on previously taken loans that fall under the payment priority and are not subject to the plan. Therefore, their percentage of execution is 60.24% compared to the 2005 plan. Capital expenditures as well as previous years will increase significantly in the second half of the year. The ratio of the implementation of total budgetary revenue and the implementation of budgetary expenditure shows a fiscal deficit moving within the planned frameworks. The financing of the budget deficit in the first half of this year was carried out in accordance with the established borrowing policy. This means that foreign debt has been reduced, and the emphasis has been given to domestic financing and this issue of securities and bonds. This way of financing and fiscal deficit enables, which is very important, the development of the domestic capital market as well as the choice of forms and instruments of borrowing. Finally, implementation of the 2005 budget clearly shows that the government is determined to implement a set development policy and strengthen the overall conditions of economic and social life. In the case of a budget, this relates to transparency in spending, financial discipline and behaviour of beneficiaries of budgetary resources. Finally, I propose that this report on the implementation of the 2005 budget be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45580	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić's turn not to have. He's losing his right. And Madam Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45581	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As the budget clearly shows which direction next year the government will lead the state and therefore assess whether the government, whether the government has a vision of the directional management at all, whether it has ideas for the implementation of the principled policy, will clearly see the government's ability to implement the same policy through the programmes and projects it has proposed, and has accepted this Parliament. When we were proposed the 2005 Budget, it was evident that it was unrealistic and that it was solely in the function of pre-election promotion. That's when we predicted the rebalancing, which happened this summer anyway. And now we have before us the implementation of the budget and the verification of the success and ability of the government. As the budget maintained all the hopelessness and lack of vision, the implementation also indicates the inability to realise what seemed to be feasible in the budget and the means to implement it have been secured. The fundamental assumption of a better life for citizens is the development of an economy in the Republic of Croatia. So much of the desired and necessary development has not occurred and only 230 million kuna or 29.69% of the planned economy has been used in the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship of the projected 775 million kuna. Does this mean that the economy minister does not know what and how to do to encourage economic development? In the absence of will and courage to invest in Croatia, the minister decided to boost investment, and thus provided 20.8 million kuna with a budget. Nothing was used from the insurance funds. What does that mean? Does this mean that the interest in investment is so great that subsidies are not necessary either. Hard to believe because there is no entrepreneurship boom in Croatia, everything indicates that interest and discouragement are so great that even subsidies do not help, if so, then the government must imagine and engage well in removing reasons for discouragement. If they are interested in quality projects but support cannot be achieved, then let the economy minister resign as soon as possible because of incompetence. Investments in Croatia are a springboard of its development and a better future for citizens, so it is unacceptable to tolerate the unusable use of planned funds that are not enough anyway. Statistics speak of an increase in imports, large imports were one of the main objections to the former government, the current government did not stop the phenomenon, and the more it increased it, our exports do not follow the rate of import growth. Does this mean that we have nothing to export or we are uncompetitive on both the ino and the domestic market, certainly both. We produce insufficiently, and what we produce for a warehouse that is said to be an increase in stockpiles in the report. The reason for incompetence simultaneously with the emergence of this situation in the Ministry of Economy since the planned 8 million kunas for the promotion of exports, only 1.59% or poor 127 thousand kuna were invested, and out of two and a half million planned for the programmes to improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy 0 kuna was invested. No more successful minister is in realising the projects envisaged in the item to encourage production, products and innovation and to connect with science. Of the planned 15 million kuna, only 968 thousand kuna or 6.45% were invested. We are also convinced by the Croatian public that by encouraging entrepreneurship infrastructure, the government will lead Croatia to an economic take-off, for this purpose the current year planned 100 million kuna, and in the first half, only 613 thousand or 061% were invested. I don't know if it's another failed government project or just another unfulfilled promise, but we know that economic growth is unsatisfactory and that this is not how Croatia is moving. It is evident that the Ministry of Economy does not create the conditions of craftsmanship, small and medium craftsmanship as bearer of economic development. Only 1.33% of the planned funds have been invested in craft education, to qualify and requalification in the craft of 0 kuna, and to encourage performances at fairs only 17%. All this data speaks of the incompetence of the minister and the incompetent has no place in the government that wants to run Croatia. The same incompetence has been recorded in the area of consumer protection where 0 kuna has been invested, which means nothing has been done to fully implement the Consumer Protection Act which should bring us closer to the standards of the European Union. We have the law and we have the same practice. It is not exactly our minister or the socially sensitive, out of 54 million planned for the pension of certain categories of pensioners, only 7.95% or 4 million and 300 thousand kuna were used. If we didn't have 100,000 pensioners whose pensions were below and such a low average would be an understandable savings in this item, how the minister's ability to think about young people is when a joint investment in local employment is spent nothing and for professional guidance information and retaining the existing employment of only 34% of the planned funds. Probably in the same way as entrepreneurs and other citizens who are hopelessly waiting for economic boom. No minor incompetence shows the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. Agriculture and tourism in Croatia are the most important economic branches, not because of the fact that we have created them in our ways, but because we have been endowed with wealth of potential. We're endowed with potential, and we either don't know it or we won't fertilize it and use it for the greater good. It's a good thing we've increased our number of tourists but it's not good that we feed them on imported food and put them in places equipped with import equipment from toilet paper to closet and bed. In the current morning, the minister said we are not producing enough, which he as a minister has taken to increase production, almost nothing. 80 million kunas were planned to subsidise years-old crops and nothing was spent. For the development of beef, 40 million and 0 invested. For investment support 100 million kuna and invested only 20 etc. It is obvious that someone is in the interest to further increase the import of meat and fruit and not only that, the Ministry has not invested in the availability of agricultural land or land from planned 10 million kunas, nothing has been invested in the construction of the flood water protection system, but has therefore spent the entire yearly planned amount on the reconstruction of the rolling stock. Buying a car. And now something about strategic projects, gentlemen from the government, you assured us that for Croatia, a strategic project to build a irrigation system, you even planned funds in the budget to make your promises more convincing. Last year, nothing was invested in the project and neither in the first term of the year. We are convinced that all strategic projects in Croatia are equally priority projects, it is really different. In some parts of Croatia, the Croatian government today declares some project strategic and the next day approaches realization. On the contrary, we are left with promises instead of realisation and the Slavons are silent about it. Why? Only they know it is silent when they testify to the silent decommissioning of the Regional Development Fund, which is tasked with equating the development of the region. Of the 25 million kunas planned for Slavonia, only 2 million and 200 thousand kunas were invested, no agricultural development, no food industry development, no realisation and no strategic projects, no investment, in order to level the development of the region, is the strange percentage of the acceptability of the idea of Slavonia region. But it is obvious that the current government does not know how to read clear signs of time and persists in the politics of one reality and in other, only promises. I am overwhelmed by promises and discouraged by the current government's incompetence and therefore cannot support this budget implementation report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45582	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45583	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the first alleged unreal budget, and as a pre-election campaign, I guess it was, so I predicted a rebalancing. So this way of thinking is phenomenal. Here I am just going to deny it this way. In my community, we've had three rebalancings this year. It was two after the election, so after the election, we each increased the budget by one 3 million kuna. So, according to you, every election budget has to be completely the other way around, so first you get high and empty it, right?- I'm sorry. So, my colleagues, I don't think your conclusion is what it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45584	Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45585	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MP Lalic said the economy minister is incompetent because he does not implement the budget items. The MPs are obviously not clear on the course of the budget because they think that each item is carried out by the 12th budget for each month.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45586	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Vesna Škulić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Here, I won't be long, given that these items from the budget that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not as a obligation meet with people with disabilities, so I'll just briefly look back on a few things. Therefore, the non-implementation of the national strategy envisaged by the dynamics is unfortunately increasing more and more tonnes. Then the decision to abolish VAT on imports of vehicles for civilian disabled persons was not made when, it is not known, even though the debate was in this House. Then, I'm talking about self-employment that should have gone from the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of people with disabilities, it's also not realised. However, I would refer to several examples. A few days ago, two girls from the White Manastir sent me an emergency letter, they're busy and a program, and their contract lasts until the end of this year. Unfortunately, there is no one to extend their contract, unfortunately, there is no one to finance their jobs because the municipality of Beli Manastir does not have so much funding for their annual salaries and the Fund on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment does not perform its function. I also received a letter from a young man who graduated from college in a wheelchair and you will have to admit that a certain dose and courage and madness is needed in our terms, under such conditions and I ask fellow MPs if they are not interested, so at least make sure that, in order for us to finish college, it takes a lot of perseverance. And that boy's looking for a means of incentive, for self-employment, unfortunately he can't get it because that fund doesn't work. By listening to yesterday's debate on defense fund shares, I couldn't help but feel that this fund reminds me terribly of an existing, non-existent fund. So I'm talking about the rehabilitation and employment fund again for people with disabilities. Given that the Minister of Finance has also forgotten the Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship, not which I would replace from office but would not even turn to Mr. Minister at all, and I think the whole government will be reminded of in a short time. Since the founding of the Fund, the Fund's director has not been appointed to date and it's been two years. There are no criteria for the allocation of funds from that Fund. Then no person is also employed by the Fund. Each year the funds are reduced, so they all fell from 23 thousand from the beginning to 19, or 23 million to 19 million kuna. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, but I don't see you, so I'd like to see you now, I can't get up, so please if you don't mind. And last time I asked you who would be responsible for all this mess about the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of people with disabilities. You didn't answer anything at the time, and you were very good at defending yourself with silence. It seems to be the policy of this government when it comes to people with disabilities to defend themselves by silence. By doing nothing but taking appropriate pictures. I'm asking you again if someone will answer for this and we're looking for an explanation right now because people with disabilities have the right to know what's going on with these funds, whether this fund will work, when it's going to be appointed director of this Fund and whether someone really will answer or simply say there's no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45588	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so the distinguished Madam Representative, I, as Minister of Finance, can only say that the government has secured the money and it is seen in the positions of the budget. Therefore, those responsible for the functioning of the Fund would, therefore, base all acts on how the Fund can function, and they would get the money from the budget and spend that money. So, as far as the government and the Ministry of Finance are concerned, there's nothing to argue about. And that doesn't have to mean by the end of the year that money won't be spent. But look, you're asking me the question now that I'm defending myself with silence, I'm not defending myself with any silence or defending myself the last time you asked a question. When there were talks about budgeting for the first 6 months of last year because I wasn't in the assembly when there was a debate about budgeting for a year, so the government secured the money, the Ministry of Finance will at the time when the Fund asked, normally... State Treasury and you know who people are responsible for the functioning of the Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45590	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45591	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. After so many speakers, it's hard to say something new, something that hasn't been pointed out yet. I'll stay on the budget for only part of the two ministries. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and the implementation of the programme of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Position, cost of analysis of inspection samples, a million thousand kunas planned, the realization is zero. Does that mean that our inspections don't work or don't work because there's no day in the media when we don't hear how healthy our food is or how bad import food is, even more junk. It is known that when the inspection takes a sample of food, unless it meets the regulations and the Croatian norms are paid by the manufacturer or importer. Since this item is zero, this really means that either the inspections are not working or that all our samples and our production and imports are outside the regulations and that one must be concerned by our consumers. The freshwater fisheries are in our collapse, the ponds are empty, the fish are not on the market, but such small means of monitoring the state of freshwater fishing have been spent with only 30%. We've got ponds, we've got too much livestock, we've got a market, and the ponds are staring at the weeds, outside of production, still state-owned. Agricultural research. Out of 6 million 100 thousand kunas spent 950 thousand or 15% while agriculture is calling for new technologies. Agricultural colleges do not have enough research projects for scientific recruits, and let us not forget that new projects for the European Union's agricultural funds are also to be run for, in particular, the SAPARD, which is planned for 2006 for EUR 25 million and which is certainly looking for new knowledge-based technologies and certainly economic justification. There's already been a talk about the rise of many years here. Although the minister stresses at each meeting the strategic importance of many years of distress, even though we know that work must be completed by the entry into the European Union the realisation of the planned 80 million is zero, and the hourglass of colleagues and colleagues has begun to flow. The economy provides subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs amounting to 40 million kuna. Realisation is zero while we meet the domestic market for beef only 80%. In addition to the hyperproduction of cereals, we import meat, and we are far from satisfying the export quotas of "Baby Beef". The Agriculture Act 2001 was incorporated into the establishment of a agricultural chamber. Every year, funds are planned for this purpose, but as neither did this government nor did it consider that the Agriculture Act should be implemented not only in this part but in a far more important part. Namely, the green report that governments have to submit each year to the Parliament or I am talking about, in the plural, because I also think about the past in order to monitor the situation in agriculture, bring new measures and try to correct the accumulated problems in agriculture that will certainly be most difficult to adapt with the European Union, its productivity and competitiveness are not implemented by the Government. He doesn't enforce the law. Parliament has not opened the debate for three years and everything is really nice under the rug. The establishment of a wine growing catastra of the planned 2 million spent 230 thousand kuna or 11%. Our catastre looks like this. In the register of catastra 13,000 acres. In statistics, nearly 50,000 acres of vineyards. In reality, we're talking about 30,000 acres. What data will we enter the European Union with? NOT according to statistics or planted areas, but according to the registered data in the wine growing catastro. The alarm's also on. Not only do we not raise vineyards more intensely, we don't even have a registered plant. Horizontal support measures in the food and processing industry of 10 million realisation 0. And we need this industry to be a driver of agricultural production, to finalise this production and to create a market for agricultural products. The ground office's equipment, the resources are low. Only 642,000 and such a small realization is zero. At the same time, we want to produce organic food, environmentally acceptable, and we forget that soil analysis is number one so that we can approach such an organization at all, and we also forget that the equipment of these institutions is from the 1950s. And finally something about the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The promotion of the education of national minorities primarily concerns textbooks has been planned 3 million too little about which I have spoken several times in this assembly. Unfortunately, the realization in six months is far less. Not a full 19%. This suggests the ministry's carelessness and disorganization when it comes to minority textbooks. The scholarships of members of national minorities planned a million kunas. Expensive zero. It may also be that children of national minorities cannot even enroll in colleges or even when they want to enroll their native language. In order to avoid confusion, they crossed the qualification threshold and the Minister of the Primorac I've come to know about it. Position of preschool institution, co-financing of children of members of national minorities. Of the planned million-and-a-half kunas that don't, we have to say, not big budget funds spent 20%. Although children go to kindergartens on a daily basis, these funds are planned not to arrive monthly, which creates a problem for kindergartens that are really small and that rely on these funds in regular business only minority kindergartens. My colleagues and colleagues did not talk about total incomes and expenditures because the predecessors pointed to and interpreted it differently. I was talking about precisely defined and unrealised positions that suggest that, apart from the verbal support that individual ministers give either when it comes to agriculture or national minorities in their public performances, the works are completely lagging behind. Unfortunately, this is not the way to Europe, and there is sufficient reason not to support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45592	Thank you very much. And as the last Mr. Vladimir Stengl I don't see, he loses his right to debate. Please, Mr. Shucker will now look briefly at this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's to the end of this debate, I would like to thank everyone for the debate, and for constructive criticism and suggestions. Most of these projects that have been discussed today were already in the realization phase in the three months, but most of these projects will certainly be implemented by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-14-0.u45594	I thank Mr. Shucker. I'm closing the debate. And the remainder of the session is at 3:00 p.m. when there's going to be a vote. Thank you very much. Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 for the first half of 2005. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. A report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 for the first half of 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the report was accepted by 67 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 16 against.
