ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51747	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. I am pleased that Croatia has approached the rapid ratification of this Protocol, which regulates the collection of damages from oil pollution. It is good that the Croatian Government, primarily your Ministry, is working as much on ship traffic control as possible, is the best example of yesterday, so thank God you've been released into the drive and information system for ships that sail the Adriatic which are therefore mandatory and it is going to automatically inform your position, your status, your course and the rest so that these protocols can then actually be applied very clearly. The use of the radar system also facilitates the identification and movement of ships. I speak all of this together because I believe in Croatia itself has matured the awareness that the Adriatic Sea is a delicate little and closed sea and that any damage caused by pollution is difficult in oil if not impossible to correct. Therefore, Croatia is primarily interested in applying such a protocol as soon as possible. In that sense, our Advocacy Club gives full support to the ratification of this protocol. I, however, must warn here of Article 3 of this Protocol which warns that this Protocol, i.e. the requirements for the collection of damages, can only be sued for damages done in the territory of the territorial sea or in the area of the economic belt. And now there are ladies and gentlemen actually in trouble. As is known, the imitation of the economic belt in the form of a protected ecological fishing band was declared in this Parliament on 3 October 2003. For my very vague reasons, we did not go on a full economic belt, but we did not go on to apply this and such a protected ecological fishing belt, but it was delayed until further notice. Moreover, on 3 June of last year, we delayed the application of this imitation of the economic belt again until further notice. to the conclusion of fisheries negotiations. No one has ever declared an economic belt or its components so that it has all been delayed in application indefinitely. The ecological component always starts to be implemented immediately, always the control component starts to be implemented immediately, and only the fishing part negotiation is delayed. We are therefore in a situation to adopt a protocol that gives us the opportunity to sue for the pollution of the Adriatic Sea with oil on our half of the Adriatic, but we cannot do this because we have committed ourselves unilaterally to not applying our economic belt to the ships of the European Union countries. In all components of the economic belt, as well as in this ecological section covering this Protocol on the pollution of the Adriatic oil and on mourning the damage to it. So basically, if a Russian, Turkish or American tanker and pollutes the Adriatic oil, we will, of course, sue him on the basis of this protocol if we of course know who his shipowner is, who ordered the cargo and who's the responsible person? Which is also something this protocol requires. But if, by chance, that pollution of the Adriatic on our half is performed by a German, French or English tanker, then we can take a picture together with that oil stain. So we can't even charge them for the damage without saying we can't stop them. So I kindly ask you to discuss not only this protocol in this High House as soon as possible. Thank God he's here, too. But to discuss the proposal put by the HSP Club in the process two months ago, which is to reactivate the ecological part of our protected eco-fishing belt and take full control of the Adriatic, regardless of which ship and flag is involved? We will be in 1,000 situations where we will be able to apply such and other protocols concerning the protection of the sea, and we will be left actually handcuffed because, by simple decision of the majority in this Parliament and the Croatian Government, we have denied the right to apply our economic belt or its imitation in the form of ZERP on ships with the flag of the Member States of the European Union. So all this other stuff in this protocol our club absolutely supports and it's good that we've come all the way to the Parliament and this protocol to discuss and ratify. I'm just repeating: for nothing if we can't use it on our half of the Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51748	Thank you. And the esteemed representative, Antun Perushko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51749	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as a representative and a seaman, I support the adoption of this very important law for the Republic of Croatia as a maritime country, in an urgent procedure. This, by adopting this 2003 protocol, which is in some way large scales that have occurred with Erika and Prestige tankers in some way, have been ratified by 10 countries, with the exception of those countries, and of course the Republic of Croatia must be classified as an extremely maritime land with a coastal sea and a protected ecological-fishing belt that surpasses the size of the land part of our country, but regardless of these vast spaces, speaking of a truly specific sea, one small sea, part, part, part of the Mediterranean, and that we were fortunate to learn, thanks to our maritime service, in fact, on bad examples that have happened to others. Lucky for us. However, this does not mean that tomorrow cannot happen, and as explained in the explanation without the adoption of this damage protocol that would exceed EUR 370 000 would not be covered, this way the damages for an additional EUR about EUR 1 million are covered in a way that results in the distribution of profits and that is what I was already talking about once. Maybe he wasn't, was misunderstood. I'm saying it has to be impossible to avoid those risks. That 40% of the entire world's transport of oil goes by sea and that the dangers are great. But you can't just stop that transport and this is one of the ways that those who earn profits from that oil have to redistribute one part into this Fund, for example, to cover possible pollution. The question arises: ballast waters, we talk about them, are they dangerous? Of course they are if there's a dump in the sea. But is that absolutely necessary? If there is a possibility of redistribution of profits from producers via carriers to processors and traders to allocate part of the funds targeted for industry, for the processing of waste water on land. And that's how it comes to the distribution of profits and new jobs are created. The danger that exists is eliminated because simple life cannot be stopped. This, the formation of this Fon in which those who order an annual order to say one tanker of an average size of 150 thousand kuna, 150 thousand tonnes is created one Fund which is pleased to establish this through today's adoption of this Act of Accession and the Republic of Croatia and we have prepared ourselves in advance to eliminate possible negative consequences. I hope it doesn't come to them and I welcome the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51750	Thank you very much. We'd be breaking up with the debate now. Uh, 15 o'clock follow-up. It is up to the respected representative Marin Jurjevic and after him, the respected representative Ante Markov. After the debate on this point, we will go to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 1996 Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Trade. And after that, we return to the proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on Chemicals, on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Central State Authorities, continues on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51751	... A session. [[Home is not saved.]] It is up to the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51752	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Normally, I support the adoption of this protocol and I think it's a good thing, but since it's about environmental issues, and that's certainly one of the most important problems we're just going to face in Croatia, which is relatively untouchable to many other countries. I'd just like to point out some illogicalities from our recently accepted budget, and it's about environmentals, so it's environmentals and protection of the sea. It is really strange, therefore, in times when we believe that we will all unanimously accept this protocol and that there are no party differences it is strange that in the budget for the following year in the item of the Recovering Programme of the polluted areas for cleaner ships, and this can now be tied up to then and to all that arises as a consequence of any possible handouts, whether it is intended that I do not know what not, oil, oil, balasic waters, cherries, etc. For clean-up ships, we reduce this year's budget of 2 million 750 thousand kuna for this type of cleaners' ships by 200 thousand kuna in the following year. Neither is this amount great nor is the total amount great, but it is indeed a strange gesture for the government to think that there is also a need to save for 200 thousand kunas in terms of signing this protocol and I believe unanimously accepting it by showing our shared commitment and will to preserve both the Croatian Adriatic and generally showing sensitivity to the problem of ecology. I would like to point out and touch a problem that seems to have nothing to do with ships, and yet it does, which is this algae caulerpa caboly which has polluted and a part of our submarine, and it has just come across anchors or balasic waters that have been released there I don't know how because the habitat wasn't in the Adriatic or in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. And those who are trying to fight this algae which was also a problem around Hvar, I don't know everything where it has already spread that this is an extremely difficult problem, because it is almost impossible to fight except for the physical overlapping of these areas, etc. There is indeed one danger of this seaweed destroying our submarine in one disastrous way, and this is one of the more interesting parts of our Adriatic, and for tourism and for me it is hard to accept that in the budget for next year to prevent the spread of seaweed zero kunas are accepted. Otherwise, we did not show in this budget the sensitivity for ecology, because to encourage NGOs to protect the environment we reduced by 50,000 kuna really one symbolic amount. Before there were 2 million 50 thousand kunas, now it's 2 million kunas. You'll agree that it's a little bit of both, but then why reduce it, so here's how symbolic somehow you say in a symbolic way that we're weak to say feeling and caring about it. The second is the strengthening of the capacity to implement the "life" Kyoto Protocol, where this year's budget was one million and four hundred thousand kuna, which has now been reduced by 320 thousand kuna. I wanted to point this out by giving support for signing this protocol convinced that we will all, that we will all raise our hands for it because it is somehow illogical that we and where we should not, so I say when it comes to symbolic amounts of money we show somehow that we are reducing our attention, concern and our quality attitude towards environmental problems. And as far as this issue of algae is concerned, even these sea-cleaning ships are not a matter of no importance. Here, I just wanted to get back to you because it bothers me as well as a man who lives on the coast, and I think we're all in the same position, that we all honestly think that we need to do as much quality as possible to keep our Adriatic from getting polluted, but I'm bothered by this kind of relationship in the budget with these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51753	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is always time and this is also a special opportunity and the right place to prove the fact that Croatia is a maritime country and that it is absolutely in line with this important provision of state and national policies that should be equally responsible for this fact. The Adriatic Sea is closed to the sea and exposed to all the problems that the modern world, the modern way of communicating transport and relations with all the dangers involved. The issue of protection is no longer a matter of national commitment. The issue of sea protection is something that simply has one broader international character. It is simply something that is an inevitable topic of all those protocols, international agreements, all those views that have been trying to happen and resolve at international level lately. This Protocol is something that can be classified in the order of such very important, very necessary documents that the International Fund for the Compensation of damages that would result from possible pollution of the sea oil should exist so that the consequences can be removed unless God gives them these consequences. Of course, we do not wish for consequences, but they happen at a higher level. It is often said of those disasters that can significantly contribute to pollution. However, we also have daily struggles for clean seas. We have daily challenges that we're bound to. A large number of vessels in the Adriatic Sea that during the tourist season exceeds three times the potentials of the port reception in terms of the number of berths and this all together. Relative inability to react in the sense of the release of oils from certain ballast waters and all together, i.e. the difficult way to adapt to become a truly maritime country in the fullest sense of the word because it requires money. You can't make money clearly one time. A dozen countries seem to have ratified this protocol, thus making it known to them that it is important, and I believe that Croatia is absolutely supporting and I fully support this protocol which I will believe so at one symbolic level what I have said again, we are a maritime country, we are taking care of our sea, and therefore we will probably continue to build on one maritime country strategy as it should already be from those resources such as shipyards, from other resources such as the fishing fleet, ships in inter-coastal conversion, large fleets and all that has simply been some structure that was covered more or less, better or worse, but it is evident that this is our policy and that in this direction we should move. What is clear is one lack of this protocol, i.e. it simply does not refer to those damages that will take place in the area that we can now characterise as an ecological and fishing zone or economic belt. I agree that this is a better name and a better form, but I think that this eco-fishing would say the system that we have created and which we have expanded for a certain time should be put into office as soon as possible to negotiate with the countries with which we need to sign, that it enters into force in the fullness of content exactly as it is voted in the Croatian Parliament. Well, of course, it is also teaching that in the end it is declared the right economic belt and that it has all the elements of all those countries that have done it and who can do it. Therefore, I think that deficit should be addressed because simply that part is very important because it is in nature one central waterway where it is sailing and which is naturally more exposed to these risks, and not so much about that damage compensation. You know, when your tanker goes down on the coast, so 10km of beaches pollutes it then it's not a matter of compensation, it's not a question, it's almost for Croatia as a country that has entered the whole year's cycle to say the tourist perspectives, it would be something that simply cannot be solved by classic monetary indicators. It's something you just shouldn't wish for. I believe that won't happen. The second part relating to waterways located within the territorial sea is very interesting. We have a situation today that some waterways may, for no reason whatsoever, be passing by or are partly directed through some areas that are particularly protected. And maybe you can make a change to these waterways that they simply, the secretary of state probably know the simplest Kornati National Park is also a waterway. And there are a whole series of our particularly prominent resources that must simply be taken into account because the whole world ultimately focused from these Kornaths to Croatia as something that is particularly prominent, especially good, especially quality and I think these small, small changes that are important for prevention. I mean, you know, the consequences of what we're talking about are catastrophic for a little sea, for a small country, for small islands like ours. We must therefore take care first of all about prevention. Preventive is something we simply have to create preconditions to never reach for this protocol in the sense that the international fund is referred to Croatia. We just don't need that. We need to create a prevention that will not allow major incidents of such scales, and these small ones we practically meet every day trying to solve them from ballast waters, from the way in which the feces are released by sailboats, yachts that sail, all of which to the arrangements of the adequate number of port ports, berths in marinas that need to be guaranteed safety at sea. Because the most insecure is sailing at sea if you have an inexperienced crew, and I think that's 60% of the time we talk about tourists, when you have the inability to sail to a safe port. And when you are on the outer islands of the territorial sea, our Croatian, you have almost, very hard to find an appropriate port. Let's say in, during the tourist season of the 8th month, it's almost impossible for you to undertake. And of course you're facing a natural challenge then, you're not experienced, you don't know where you're going to sail. Therefore, you are at risk, but you are not at risk, your risk may be less than the risk that will relate to the consequences of your handiwork, your risk, and that is to cause you to fail to unload fuel in the sea, etc. It is therefore good that this protocol has come to Parliament. I think we should unanimously, unanimity greet him, but it should be noted that we should all try the other part of our sea together, which is an ecological-fishing zone or an economic belt, to put into the same function by expanding jurisdiction, empowering it. It's not about getting money, it's about doing preventive action in those areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51755	Thank you. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51756	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the introduction, I did not, or did not give an introductory letter concerning the proposal of the 2003 Protocol Confirmation Act to the International Convention establishing an International Fund for damages caused by oil pollution, considering that there is probably no need since this is an international protocol that has in a certain way general support in the Croatian public, and certainly here in this House when it comes to its adoption. However, since several remarks have been made in the debate, which also touch the Protocol itself on the one hand, and on the other hand, concerning all those activities that the Republic of Croatia may not seem to further protect the maritime environment. It is my duty now to respond to these remarks and to mention all that the Republic of Croatia is doing at the moment when this applies to the protection of the Adriatic Sea, to the protection of the marine environment. I must first say that when the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented our pre-accession maritime strategy in Dubrovnik three weeks ago, which is the greatest emphasis given on the state of safety of the Adriatic Sea. On the other hand, not all those international conventions, protocols and obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the protection of the marine environment. In that sense, I will say that, yes, here we are yesterday in Rijeka on the day of the seafarers and the holiday of St. Nicholas opened, let go, if so I can say in the work of a system of automatic identification of ships which, believe me, cannot be seen by much more developed countries in the Mediterranean that in real time can be displayed on display, that it can show complete maritime traffic for all ships over 300 tons of capacity, or 150 tonnes if it carries dangerous burdens, so in real time it can know which ship, which is the crew, which is the burden, which is the port of destination, which is the speed, the country where it comes from. So all of that, all of those relevant data relating to the ship. But it is only one of the segments of what it does, which is happening at this moment in that one process of further safety of sailing on the Adriatic. In fact, several years ago, a mandatory ship reporting system was introduced, which ships sailing to the Adriatic Sea must report to you in 4 sectors. First in... , then in Bar, later in Rijeka and Ancona and giving information to these radio stations are practically talking about the burden, the routes they are sailing, the burdens they are driving and where they are directed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are also here a year ago, so on 1 December 2004, the International Maritime Organisation adopted a system aimed and separated sailing that has practically established all of those seaways of a kind of highway at sea, and that part only refers to the northern part of the Adriatic, but these directions, and the roads are precisely determined courses by which ships must sail when heading southwards, i.e. from the north to the south, and thus contributes practically to that one safety of sailing. Now through this system that we put into operation yesterday we can check whether the ships are exactly those kind of highways, or those systems that are focused... the navigation of respect and in this sense we can punish them, we can prescribe measures for them and how to treat ships or commanders who do not use such highways at sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that through, at least said in the strategy that in 2, 3 years, at the latest in 2009 we will introduce a complete radar image in real time from all traffic on the Adriatic, through the complete monitoring and monitoring system of maritime transport in the Adriatic. In this way, when this part is finished, we can say that as a state we are completely sovereign, precisely controlling, monitoring and managing all the traffic in the Adriatic, but this is the final step that awaits us by the end of 2008 and in half of 2009, and this is not a small system, this system will cost a total of around 11 million euros. But what I would certainly like to say is that by adopting this protocol, or by ratifying it, we contribute to a different approach, I would say to the safety of the marine environment in such a way that we practically commit all those participants in that transport to make clear now, with increased additional costs, that we are taking extra care of the protection of the Adriatic. And I have to say that according to our data that our ministry has available, and which data is practically collected in the process of producing rules on the management and use of ballast waters on the Adriatic, we found that there are about 550 tankers in the Adriatic each year that bring about 60 million tonnes of oil, so crude oil and oil logs, and that according to these data, the Adriatic is quite a living, one frequency maritime direction in which it is then clear with such a large number of tankers that manage and possibly a certain maritime accident, I wouldn't say disaster, don't let God make it happen. And so in this number of sails of tankers in the Adriatic, it is certainly that, as a coastal state that has this protocol as an international instrument to protect itself in a certain way from such a possible maritime accident, we must clearly access it as soon as possible. What this fund, an additional fund to the International Convention on the establishment of a 92nd Fund, guarantees damage to the Republic of Croatia that would have suffered real damage from such a maritime disaster, triples the amount of damage it has suffered from the fund that was adopted in 1992. When the Spanish and French coast hit the ferry disaster both Prestige and Rick, then the maximum damage was about 150 million paid to the French state. So we think that by accepting the protocol as it is already said, we are 11 countries in a row that practically ratifys it, we turn out to be exactly those countries that are on similar seas like the Adriatic Sea, so we think that this is what contributes to this security of navigation. Otherwise, I have to answer and thank Mr Tadic for the compliment he gave to the Croatian Government for all those activities he is working on protecting the Adriatic, I must say that he is wrong when he says that this law, or this protocol, does not apply to a protected ecological fishing belt. Namely, this protocol, which I hope we will adopt today, applies to all ships independently of the flag of membership, regardless of the state of membership, so whether they are Turkish, Russian, Panamaian or European Member States' ships, because it says that the damage is paid by place of origin rather than by the flag of a ship that could cause any damage. This is because it does not pay for damages to the shipowner or state where the ship comes from and whose ship is but whose fund is practically full of its contributions if they can say in a financial sense all those countries which have ratified this agreement, or not those, but their importers who are the owners of the cargo, which in a given country annually imports more than 150 thousand tonnes of oil, i.e. oil or raw oil. This is because, for example, when this fund was adopted or the Republic of Italy had not yet declared its seat belt or its ecological belt, and knowing that it is in a kind of trap that practically as a large importer it is also a major obligor of the contribution of payment of funds to this fund, practically because of the failure of its belt, if that damage had occurred it could not be compensated, so even the Republic of Italy, when it notified its declaration to which it accepted this Protocol, stated that the provisions of this Protocol were related and to that space which would be, belonging to the Republic of Italy within the limits that could reach its external, or economic or ecological belt. Therefore, the provisions of this law, unless God is given, and I hope that we will never be forced to activate it if we adopt this law, if, therefore, this Protocol is adopted, then the damages that occur in internal sea waters, in the territorial sea and in the protected eco-fishing belt, regardless of whether it is done by a ship of any state, so any country of belonging, or flag of membership, all is one obligation to pay, has an additional fund and not a shipowner, nor a country from which that shipowner comes. In this way, practically, the Republic of Croatia, clearly and all states that become party to this Protocol, are protected from shipowners, or ships that could create such an ecological disaster. As it would not remain clear, I would like to say in public that by practically adopting the Fund, we eliminate a large number of Member States of the European Union who often sail to the Adriatic Sea, I would like to make it clear that this Protocol also applies to the Member States of the European Union, despite the fact that on 3 June of last year, our protected ecological fishing zone was put out of force by the decision of this House, i.e. until the signing of its entry into force, until the signing of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. That's it, so clearly if there's more, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51757	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative of Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51758	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. The purpose of the protocol is that the country declares which area it applies to. Italy has done what it has done, so it has said to which it applies this protocol simply because Italy has an active epicontinental belt, so the sea floor, and then it is attached, announces to which area it will have to apply this protocol. If today-to-morrow Italy declares its protected environmental belt, it will certainly drag it around on the sea pole above their epicontinental belt. I therefore expressed reservations on behalf of the HSP Club on whether Croatia with an inactive economic belt applied selectively will be able to apply the rights set out in point 2 of point (a) of Article 3 of this Protocol. I'm still saying it won't work. God forbid I'm wrong about this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51759	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51760	Third. The final draft law on the confirmation of the 2003 Protocol with the International Convention establishing the International Fund for damages to oil pollution from 92. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 107 votes for and 6 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51761	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the 1996 Act on Confirmation of the 1996 Protocol amending and supplementing the 1976 Convention on the responsibilities of maritime demand, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 393 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The committee's reporters? Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51762	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 36th session held on 2 December, the Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 96 Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Tragics of 76, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. No. 393, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 17 November 2005. The Committee is a proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the '96 Protocol. amending and supplementing the Convention on the Limitation of Liability for Maritime Tragics of '76. in accordance with the provisions of Article 89 of the Final Proposal of the Law, he discussed as a home working body the years following the final proposal of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee accepted the proposal to adopt the law following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative who pointed out that the protocol in its entry into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia became part of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and is located above the law. He also stressed that accession to the protocol modernises and completes the whole of the multilateral agreements that bind the Republic of Croatia in the field of maritime law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the '96 Protocol. amending and supplementing the Convention on the Limitation of Liability for Maritime Tragics of '76. the year in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51763	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51764	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. The HSP Club supports this proposal for a law on the confirmation of this Protocol on the restriction of liability for maritime demand from '76. and in particular we support the Government's position to place reserves with regard to the exclusion of the application of certain provisions of this Protocol. Therefore, the protocol refers primarily to claims for liability in the event of damage caused by human victims or damage to ships themselves or damage to the environment or damage to passengers in maritime accidents. Of course, the Republic of Croatia is obviously a position, and we think it is a good thing, not to allow the possibility of a limit of responsibility, so charges for lifting claims to the surface, removal or cleaning, so making a harmless ship that has sunk or suffered a shipwreck, which has been overrun, etc. i.e. demand for the removal of its burden. For the Adriatic, it is truly of special importance. While at the first point of today's debate concerning the sea and accidents at sea we were talking about oil here, we're actually talking about all the other problems that can arise at sea, which, in the midst of the accident, can actually destroy the marine aquarium for some time. We all remember the disaster of the boat "Brigita Montanari" and I would never want the Croatian Adriatic to repeat such an accident again that in the middle of the Adriatic, a ship with carcinogenic vinyl chloride monomer, but if we adopt such a protocol then, with reservations that Croatia must mention when it is adopted, then the possibility is that whoever is responsible for this accident, the one responsible for this burden, is responsible for all the consequences and for all the costs of removing or the greatest possible reduction of the damages caused by such a maritime accident. The Adriatic is therefore a sensitive sea, and that is why our club has submitted to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for the Croatian Parliament to support an initiative to declare the Adriatic for a particularly sensitive sea area. As far as I know, the government is working on it, and it would be really good to trace the protocols we are discussing today, and in which I see there is really no disagreement, but we are actually trying to figure out how to apply these protocols to the Croatian Adriatic as best as possible, so that such agreement can be achieved with the initiative to make the Adriatic a particularly sensitive sea area. For such a thing, a consensus in the Croatian Parliament is needed, but a consensus is also needed for all Adriatic countries. So, we propose that, in this sense, the Adriatic conference from which the International Maritime Organisation would be called to declare the Adriatic as a particularly sensitive marine area as soon as possible. When I say that, I especially remember the fact that this protocol is related to only 16 states. If we refuse Afghanistan, which is not a maritime state at all, or Mali, which is also not a maritime state, we remain among the European countries Denmark, Finland, Germany, Malta, Norway, the Russian Federation, Spain, Sweden and the UK. In addition to Croatia, this protocol has not signed or ratified any of our neighbouring countries. Neither Serbia-Montenegro nor Albania nor Greece nor Slovenia nor Italy. So, if we really want to impose stricter rules in the Adriatic, and the rule is most easily imposed if there are clear penalties, or if there are no exceptions to the liability for damage caused by a sinking ship carrying a dangerous burden on it. So I'm glad that our government is in this principle, then it would be good to use the government's diplomatic initiative and for our neighbouring countries on the Adriatic to ratify this protocol as soon as possible because otherwise the whole thing is hard to use. We can only protect the Adriatic only then and only then with protocols like this or with a protocol that we have discussed before, then and only if it is the common position of all the countries on the Adriatic. Of course, Croatia must simply be preceded by this because we have the most divorced coast, definitely the cleanest sea, and as such we are simply ahead of certain to lead an initiative to protect the Adriatic, i.e. to be us as a maritime nation those who care and care most about protecting the Adriatic from pollution, whether by balasic waters, or by discharges, or by sea disasters. So, in that sense, our club supports this protocol. We also support the good position of the Croatian Government in our court to place reserves in certain exclusions of liability for damages and damages. But we believe that this protocol can give its full result only if all neighbouring countries in the Adriatic are bound with it, and especially if the decision of the International Maritime Organisation makes the Adriatic a particularly sensitive sea area. On this point, I believe that there will be no problem in reaching consensus within the Croatian political scene within the parties in the Croatian Parliament. And we also believe that the diplomatic initiative in other Adriatic countries will deliver a favourable result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51765	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this is another act actually proposed by the Law on Confirmation of the 96 Protocol, which amends and complements the Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Tragics of 1976, another act that I am convinced will be adopted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament, another key act which the Republic of Croatia undoubtedly sets out... in the category of all the strong maritime countries of the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, since the Convention adopted in 76, in the past few decades, there has been a change in international relations and that the Convention should have been complemented by a protocol such as that of 96. And I can only in some way almost repeat what my colleague Tadic said, that it is a good thing that the Croatian government is adopting this Law, I hope that we will adopt it as I said in the Assembly unanimously excludes possible restrictions on the search for sunken ships and it is very important. And this is really what you would agree in many ways with your colleague Tadic if it were very important that all the countries of the Adriatic coastal countries sign and accept such an identical protocol and this is in favour of what I also had the opportunity to say from this pay phone, so when sometimes we did not agree that according to my deep conviction and trust of the SDP Representatives Club, the Adriatic protects itself in an integrated manner and destroys the partial. And from what we're worth, I'm speaking figuratively now, not entering a tanker in the bay of Rijeka if these same tankers go to the Gulf of Trscan, nothing is mentioned. The fact is that 35 million tons of oil sails into the Gulf of Trstian and 5 million tonnes sails into the Omisale Bay and the problem is now these 5 million in the Croatian part of the Adriatic and is not the problem of these 35 million tonnes in the Gulf of Trstian. At this moment in the Adriatic, 7.5 million tons of ballast water is poured into the Gulf of Trstian. Remember, 7.5 million tons of ballast water. And that's in favor of that thesis in which I said that the Adriatic is being partially destroyed and the only way to protect itself integratedly. And once again I want to point out from this pay phone, what I said, the distribution has to come up. I'm going to repeat what I said, ballast waters are, of course, they are, they're dangerous, and they're big, especially for a closed sea pool like the Adriatic. But what it means is that they have to be just dropped into the aquarium, no, they can be deposited on land and the accompanying wastewater processing industry develops and new people are hired, new jobs. However, from that extra gain that someone today must also distribute into these accompanying contents. And one more thing, to get back specifically on the subject right now because there's not much you can say here except to support this proposal. However, I would like to warn you of something else. The question of the immersed objects, how has it been normaled so far? A submerged object after 10 years that the owner did not remove it from the sea floor becomes the property of the state, and what in fact is just putting one additional obligation on the state without any interest in realising it, and this is good, this exception that this protocol establishes can be eliminated and such tragic situations that have happened throughout history. And not to say when, once it seems to me, the IDS Club's representative has been asking me in the budget for last year's report on the extraction of sunken ships from the time of II. World War I or World War I, we had, there were colleagues from Istria who worked together with me three, four years ago to suppress the disaster of... where the fuel's still from II. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] World War I began to spring to the surface. But let's not ask ourselves until we get into situations like this. And to conclude, the SDP Club will in any way support and welcome the adoption of one of these protocols, especially with the exclusion of these responsibilities regarding the extraction of immersed objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51767	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51768	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I support this proposal for a law confirming the 96 protocol that really increases the amount of responsibility for maritime demand, the 1976 Convention. And if I didn't repeat what my colleagues were saying on behalf of the club and beyond, I would look back on just one important perhaps moment that stems from that, not only is our country a maritime land but because our people too, our sailors also celebrated Croatia's sailing and foreign ships. And on that occasion, that is, earning such bread is not rarely regrettable, the situation of suffering. So they're suffering not only our people and as passengers, but also as sailors. And the question now arises, the painful evidence of them and the damages of their family in the event of death or serious physical injuries. What I would like to point out in particular, and ultimately quite openly and honestly, and the promoter himself notes that only the approach, namely the adoption of this Protocol Confirmation Act, and later laying down the access to the protocol which, of course and with the right and I support that the Government retains these three reserves shows, i.e. the opportunity or time to consider also amendments to the Maritime Code itself. Although it is certain that Croatia will apply this Protocol by adopting this Code itself with the existing Convention and that it will not be bound by the provisions laid down in Articles 385 to 427. A maritime code that speaks precisely about the limit of responsibility for the damage caused by the death or the bodily injury of passengers who are significantly lower than it will be if I believe that the Parliament, that we will also vote here on this Protocol Confirmation Act. However, precisely because of compliance and because of a clearer situation on its own not only in relation to those to which the law applies but above all and in relation to those applying the law, therefore, not only the law but also these international agreements will certainly be a clearer situation to prevent and amend these provisions of the maritime code, although here it was adopted in its integrity only last year. But that is exactly what we of the SDP Club have individually warned of too low amounts, i.e. very limited liability due to death and physical injury to any passengers or even crew members. Therefore, here is the conclusion, I support this bill, but as the Government itself has pointed out, it would be good for these, after the adoption of this law, to then access and amend those articles of the Maritime Code to make the matter very clear in terms of addressability, i.e. all those that apply to the law, and I say and repeat to those who apply it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51769	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary State Secretary, Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51770	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I would just briefly refer to a part of the remarks or a reference to this bill, which again, I say, does not touch the law itself because, it seems to us, and this is seen and said at committee meetings that we practically all support the adoption of this protocol. This specificity that exists in the world's international maritime law in which the shipowner is freed from the full responsibility of compensation for the damage caused by the damage that may occur in certain maritime accidents is... specificity of maritime law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But since shipowners, according to the World Trade Organisation, carry 10% of the world's total turnover to goods, it is clear that the increase and involvement of shipowners in the total amount to impose an obligation on it to fully compensate for possible damages would certainly contribute significantly to a greater increase in goods and services in the world. In that part of the International Maritime Organisation, too, practically restricts the ship's liability through these conventions. However, it is clear that national regulations, such as the Maritime Code of which Mrs Ingrid spoke, protect countries with national legislation on those specific damages that can occur, which, if coastal, can cause catastrophic damage, i.e. damage to enormous scales when such a single maritime accident occurs. And in that sense, clearly, that we and our Maritime Code, which was adopted a year ago, will most practically be in line with all international conventions affecting shipping, shipowners and the protection of the marine environment. And clearly, it is us and ourselves, or the government wrote it in an explanation that in one part the height of the search that the damageor would have suffered in the event of a maritime accident is not in line with the protocol and the convention. At that time, the protocol was not even adopted, but we will first, when there is an amendment to the Maritime Code, harmonize those provisions of the Maritime Code with the protocol which I hope we will adopt. But what else I would like to mention, to which Mr Tadic urged me, is the fact that the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are making all possible advances in order to declare the Adriatic Sea a particularly sensitive sea area. In this regard, I said earlier that after the adoption and adoption of the International Convention on the Management of Ballast Waters, we have set out in the construction of the National Regulation, the National Act or some regulation on ballast waters, which will define how to manage and use ballast waters in the Adriatic. In that sense, what Mr. Peru said, 7 million tons of poured ballast waters in the Gulf of Trstian or in the Adriatic may also be higher because the amount of 40 million tonnes that Italy imports from raw oil means even greater quantities of ballast water. But at this point, we can't give the exact information. Monitoring that we are working and is working for the Republic of Croatia in order to find out the real facts about how many ballast waters are landing or spilling into the Adriatic Sea we will figure out, I hope, by the end somewhere there in the 6th month, after which we would then propose to the Parliament an appropriate act to define the spilling of ballast waters in the Adriatic Sea. We believe that, according to the existing International Convention and the experiences of the Republic of Croatia, there is no place in the Adriatic where the International Convention and the requirements of the Republic of Croatia for the maintenance of the clean Adriatic Sea could be met could be carried out. In that sense, we are likely to propose such a rule to this House. But I must also say that in this process, we are also going to adopt the Declaration of the Adriatic Declaration, particularly sensitive to the marine area, which, as Mr Tadic said, we cannot bring alone. Or as you said, Mr. Peru, it's not a matter of a particular state on the Adriatic, but rather a decision made by the International Maritime Organisation after we all propose it together. And we hope, because in Dubrovnik on November 21st, when we promoted our pre-accession maritime strategy, we also invited all the states that are the Adriatic coastal states to support us in that sense, and then we introduced them to our intention to take action, doing a study to prove the justification of our intention, our intention to declare the Adriatic a particularly sensitive marine area. In that sense, great support gives us... from Oslo together with our 4 institutes and the Institute for the Institute of Hydrographic Institute, Croatian Hydrographic Institute, Oceanographic Institute and Ruđer Bošković Institute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we all try together from the experiences of other seas that have been declared particularly sensitive, from our experiences as a state that is practically a coastal state, most particiates from all other countries in this landline, which is mourned by the Adriatic Sea, to prove that there is a need and justification for the Adriatic Sea to be declared a particularly sensitive area. And what this Convention and the one that we were just talking about earlier would mean, in practice, that all shipowners, all ships flying to the Adriatic Sea, would have to pay close attention to the way they sail, where ballast waters are poured out, what security measures must be achieved to allow them to sail to the Adriatic ports, but not only the Adriatic ports, but also to the ports of neighbouring countries. In this sense, therefore, this project of declaring the Adriatic particularly sensitive to the marine area is a project of this government, and we hope that at the level of the International Maritime Organisation with all other Adriatic states, we will prove the correctness of our decision to declare the Adriatic a particularly sensitive maritime area. In doing so, we need to know that other countries are also clearly taking care of their economic development and that compliance on the one hand between economic development and the other side of the restrictions that represent such laws, and certainly the declaration of the Adriatic to a particularly sensitive marine area must be in one balance. By, therefore, we should give greater emphasis to the conservation of the marine environment, and often on the sharpest then economic development of a particular country which primarily needs to protect its sea as the most important natural resource. Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51771	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51772	Fourth. The final proposal for a law confirming the 96th Protocol amending and supplementing the 76th Convention on the restriction of liability for maritime trade. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 105 votes for and 6 abstentions passed by the proposed Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51773	We're moving on to the next one. - Final proposal of the Chemical Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 403 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister of Health Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me in a few sentences to present to you, therefore, the proposal for a chemical law with the Final Proposal of the Law. In fact, the Chemical Act regulates the production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals and, of course, guarantees the highest standards of health care. It was precisely one of the basic provisions in making that economic interests must in any case be subject to the protection of human health and the protection of the environment. And that is why the creation of this Law was also entrusted to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as is the case in all the countries of the European Union. Let me remind you that somewhere in October 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Chemical Law, which was to apply on 1 January 2005 under Article 78 of that Law. However, the current Chemical Act covered the entire area of chemicals too wide. . /. I will say, in fact, that it was meant to regulate, for example, ionising radiation, plant protection, which was in fact other things that were not in line with any of the European Union directives, and that is why it is quite clear that such a legal provision has to be amended in order to comply with the directives in the field of dangerous chemicals and biocidal products. I would also like to say that the current Chemical Act did not make it clear and determined the procedures and competences of law enforcement, which is of course in this year, and I must admit that in the last year, it has also caused confusion in a whole series of economic operators, but also great concern, not only for our citizens because of the inefficient protection of human health and the environment that we have had and have seen several times, but at the same time also for representatives of the European Union, or European Commissioners, who have repeatedly pointed to this issue, and precisely these concerns of uncertainty were, of course, another reason for us to approach this bill. The proposed Law therefore makes it much clearer to determine the jurisdiction of procedures in the implementation of the Law, and key provisions for the functioning of the system for the protection of human health and the environment are elaborated, in detail, by respecting all directives of the European Union. Unlike the current law here, there is no provision for the establishment of the Chemical Office. Namely, the Chemical Office has two countries in the European Union and we cannot say that it is some practice of the European Union. However, the European Union and its commissioners have left this to each country in particular to address these structural problems, but it is important that the directives are respected. This is why this legislative proposal confers appropriate competence in the field of protection against dangerous chemicals on the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. Finally, the proposed Chemical Act is fully in line with the European Union rules governing protection against dangerous chemicals and clearly determining the competences of procedures in the implementation of the Law, and key provisions for the functioning of the system of protection of human health and the environment against dangerous chemicals are elaborated in detail. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51775	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51776	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The right to a healthy life is one of the fundamental rights of every man, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states, among other things, that conservation of nature and human environment is one of the highest values of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia. It is the state that needs to ensure conditions for a healthy environment where economic interests must be subject to the protection of human health and the protection of the environment. The chemical law that is the subject of this debate today aims to ensure the protection of human life and health and to protect the environment from the harmful effects of dangerous chemicals. This Law regulates the production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals, prevents the registration of chemicals at risk for human health and the environment and thus provides for the highest standards of health protection, or as stated in Article 1 of the proposed Law for the protection of human life and human health, and protects the environment from the harmful effects of dangerous chemicals, this Law prescribes the procedure for the registration of new substances, classification, packaging and labelling of chemicals dangerous for human health and the environment, the exchange of data on chemicals, the way of assessing the potential risk for humans and the environment, the prohibition and restriction of marketing and use, and the conditions for the production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals. The provisions of this Act also apply to biocidal products. The current Law provides for the establishment of the Chemical Office. This would mean that, with the already existing system of protection in the field of toxicology in the health system, we are building a new protection system, which automatically implies unnecessary duplication of both personnel and equipment, which of course means a significant increase in costs. That is why we at the SDP club believe that the much better solution proposed by this proposal of the Chemical Act is to entrust the relevant competences in the field of protection against dangerous chemicals to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. In order to minimise the possibility of any risky situation by human health or by the environment, the provisions of the Law need to be clear and unequivocal, as otherwise it opens up a space for different malversions and abuses. As a result, we feel that Article 8. should be deleted. Article 8 states: "Extremely new substances may be placed on the market without notification and Article 7(1) of this Act for a maximum period of 1 year if the conditions regarding the annual quantity of such substances are met in relation to their purpose". Paragraph 2 continues to read: "The conditions regarding the annual quantity of new substances in transport without registration and the specific conditions for the purpose of new substances which may be placed on the market without applying to the Commission's proposal are prescribed by the Minister with the consent of the Minister of Economy." We believe that there are no exceptions to obtaining authorisations and conditions of placing on the market, especially when it comes to new substances should not be done. Article 10(4) reads: "In the event of a suspicion, a justification for the latest scientific knowledge that the substance is more dangerous than that resulting from the Ministry’s application before the expiry of the time limit referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may require additional data from the applicant or require the submission of a dossier on additional examinations". Article 10, paragraph 5, further states: "If the applicant does not comply with the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article, the ministry may temporarily prohibit the placing on the market of a new substance until all required documentation is attached". In the SDP club, we believe that the word "can" should be replaced by the word "will", because when it is said it can mean that in disputed cases, the ministry may, but also does not have to ask for additional documentation, or it may, but it does not have to prohibit the placing of new substances on the market, and in the event of doubts based on the latest scientific knowledge that the substance is more dangerous than it comes from the application should not leave the possibility of a choice. After all, we had the opportunity to see these days in the case of a return agreement to the "folksdojcers" how it can end badly when a provision of the law can be interpreted one way or another depending on the current needs of the ruling set. Therefore, the provisions of the law must be clearly and unambiguously formulated in order not to leave room for any arbitrary interpretation at any given time, and the word "can" just opens up such an option. Article 54(2) reads: "The obligation to conduct an eyewitness does not apply to natural persons using dangerous chemicals referred to in point (b) of Article 2 of point 9 of this Act". And then if we look at what's in this Article And now I don't understand why the legislator, in these particular cases, means when it comes to irritable chemicals and chemicals that lead to hypersensitivity, liberates the individuals who use these chemicals to keep an eye on them. The reason for such an exception is not visible in a series of reasons of the bill's proposal because, with the explanation of Article 54, it literally writes this: "The obligation to keep an eye on dangerous chemicals is prescribed." It must be acknowledged that this is one of the stronger arguments of the point of the law, and by the way, the most frequent co-existence given under the proposed laws is the least offensive to the MPs because it turns out that we are semi-literate and we do not even know how to read the proposed law. It is therefore not possible to conclude from this argument in Article 54 that in the case of irritable chemicals and chemicals that lead to hypersensitivity, it is not possible to determine the intensity of the applicant to make an exception when it comes to keeping an eyewitness. I would like to hear an explanation from the government's representatives to say if they have any valid reasons, and otherwise this provision in Article 54 is to be deleted. The law is a framework on which the minister will adopt a whole series of regulations that will further regulate a whole series of very important issues such as the Regulation on the procedure for the evaluation of substances, the procedure for the registration of active substances in bioside products, the Data Content and Documentation Regulation, and so on, and so on, do not list everything else. The design of these regulations should pay full attention to their application in practice in order to fully ensure such conditions of production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals and bioside products that will fully ensure the safety of human health and the environment. Article 40 reads: "In the production of dangerous chemicals, the final product must be laboratoryly controlled with regard to the composition and content of impurities according to internationally recommended analytical methods. Is it not clear from a piece like this, what laboratory is in charge of these controls? Can these analyses be performed by an internal laboratory of the manufacturer himself or will only the results of an authorised establishment be recognised? Article 58 states that examinations of the properties of dangerous chemicals may be carried out by legal persons authorised by the minister and so on, that I do not read the whole of Article 58. Is it understood that the legal persons referred to in Article 58 are competent to carry out the laboratory controls listed in Article 40? This is not clearly evident from the above-mentioned article in Article 40. The SDP Club considers that the carrying out of laboratory analyses for the purpose of obtaining official results of the composition and content of the impurities, data used among other things and for obtaining the necessary permits for the production, transport and use of chemicals should not be allowed to be allowed to be carried out by internal laboratories but should be done by an independent authorised institution to which the minister grants the authorisation on the basis of the conditions laid down in respect of personnel and equipment guaranteeing that the tests in that institution will be carried out in accordance with the rules of good laboratory practice. In order to preserve both human health and the environment, waste chemicals or waste from dangerous chemicals are very important, as well as waste packaging treatment. The proposed law does not make it clear which law applies to the treatment of these types of waste. Article 3 says: "The provisions of this Act do not apply to", and among other things states "waste, dangerous chemicals to which waste management regulations apply." And in the Waste Act adopted by this House on 3 December 2004, there is no idea of waste, dangerous chemicals and their packaging. The reference is made to hazardous waste which is then defined as waste which, by its composition and properties, is defined as hazardous waste as prescribed in Article 2 of this Act, is referred to the Waste Act. In addition, Article 2(2) of that same Article is now set out in that Article, as far as all is concerned under waste and is also further said in paragraph 3 that the rules laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article are adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is, then, in the Waste Act and a specific category of waste. This is as stated in the Waste Act for which management is prescribed by the specific regulations referred to in Article 104(1), point 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is therefore not clear from the proposed Article 3(1), subparagraph 4 of this Act which is before us which law or regulations apply to the treatment of these types of waste. The legislator should clearly and precisely define this issue so that there are no doubts as I do not need to mention what problems both in the environment and in the health of people may arise if these types of waste are uncontrollably and inadequately put into the environment. And finally something about the financial part of this law. Article 61 states that the funds for the operation of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology resulting from this Act are to be provided in the State budget. In the introduction of the Law, it is said that it is estimated that in 2006 in the State budget funds amounting to EUR 200 000 should be provided. Since we recently adopted the State budget for 2006 I was wondering if the necessary funds for the Croatian Toxicology Institute were secured? However, with the best will in the articles of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, I failed to find the Croatian Institute for Toxicology. I've been going over the item in detail, but I haven't found the Tox screen yet. Therefore, I would ask the Government representative to tell me what position the Croatian Institute of Toxicology is in, because if the funds are not planned in 2006 then this Law is also on the best path to remain a dead letter on paper, and I note that it is an important law which, regardless of its name, bears that label E, is a Law which is primarily important for the citizens of this country, not for the European Union. Finally, we believe that the proposer, the promoters, will follow the comments made after the debate, and will install them in the bill so that the final version will be as high-quality as possible and the SDP Club will support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51777	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51778	Just one correction. My colleague said it wasn't foreseen in the State Budget. Well, it can't be, because I'm just taking this bill into account something can be predicted in the State budget. They therefore have other resources in the State budget to cover this item.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51779	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mirjana Brnadic, the esteemed representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the Chemical Act. The main objectives of this Law are the harmonisation of Croatian regulations with European directives and the preservation and improvement of the existing system of protection of human health and the environment, a system that has been proven through its work for more than 30 years. This proposal prevents total chaos that would have occurred if the Chemical Law had been applied in the Croatian Parliament in 2003. The 2003 Law transferred human health protection powers from dangerous chemicals and health care to the economy which was rarely seen in any European Union country, and we heard today from the Ministers only in the two countries of the European Union insist on such an office. The old proverb says, "Wolves are not allowed anywhere to guard sheep." It was supposed to be torn down by an existing system and all competences sought to transfer to the newly established Chemical Office which would issue solutions, carry out expert tasks, supervision, regulation and so on. This was not in line with the basic rules that the same body cannot adopt regulations, issue solutions, monitor and provide expert advice. It was a law to start from scratch, despite the well-existing system in Croatia. This bill clearly confers jurisdiction in order to prevent conflict of interest. The Ministry of Health is responsible for the making of regulations, the relevant county offices provide solutions or permits, sanitary and border inspection carry out supervision, and the expert institution provides only expert opinions and performs fully professional tasks such as data collection, education, register keeping, records etc. The provisions of this proposal of the Law governing the production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals guarantee the highest standard of health care, preventing the registration of chemicals at risk for health and the environment, with economic interests subject to protection of human health and environmental protection. The proposed Chemical Act sets out the competences and procedures of law enforcement much more clearly, and key provisions for the functioning of the system of protection of human health and the environment than dangerous chemicals are elaborated in detail. This bill does not bring nearly any new costs because the Croatian Toxicology Institute with its 30 years of experience in this area, with complete infrastructure and necessary experts, is making the most of its revenues on the market, so the estimated amount of EUR 200 000 is not to finance the overall activities of the Institute for Toxicology but only for certain additional jobs. Sanitary inspection will not increase the cost of its work by overseeing the implementation of this law because it has always been in the jurisdiction of the Sanitary Inspectorate and will not be burdened by the economy with new duties. At the HDZ Club, we hold that the proposed law aims to maintain and improve the existing system with the facilitatement of the business of the entities that produce and market chemicals. We, at the HDZ Club, also hold that this bill, apart from compliance with European Union regulations, does not bring any revolutionary changes, but is just fixing what has not been regulated so far. In Croatia, protection from dangerous chemicals is not a new activity, nor did Croatian experts find out how to work in the area yesterday. You could say that the law is divided into two parts. Until the chapter "Production, Transport and Use of Chemicals" is about the clean application of the provisions of the Directive of the European Union. From the above mentioned chapter, experience of current systems has been followed as the European Union does not prescribe a way of applying its Directive and it was best to continue and correct the existing system. It is important to point out that all activities under the proposed law are already being carried out today by professional institutions and sanitary inspection, but the bill also allows for improving these activities without additional burdens, as I have already said by legal and natural persons dealing with the production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals. Already today, there are databases on more than 10,000 dangerous chemicals with larger or smaller documentation on them, and the new law will allow all dangerous chemicals to be included in Croatia and a list of where they are handled. This is extremely important when doing business in the prevention of accidents with dangerous chemicals and removing their consequences where the Croatian Institute of Toxicology correctly carried out professional tasks and it is logical to continue to carry out them in an even better way. The most important thing is that the existing system of protection is perfected by the implementation of this law and it does not collapse. In order to illustrate the quality of the existing health protection system, I would like to point out the fact that European Union experts from Denmark carried out a review of the existing system during the spring of this year and were extremely pleased with it. It has been shown that the Danish Institute of Toxicology is doing practically the same jobs as the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and at a similar level. So this is another argument to reflect the existing system in Croatia, with improvements prescribed by the European Union directives. The special chapter of this law speaks of biocidal products in Croatia known as disinfectants, disinfection and deratiation, which was regulated only in principle by the provisions of the directive. The Biocidal Products Directive is relatively new, since 1997, and has not been applied until the end in the European Union, and in Croatia, the system of disinfection, disinfection, deratization has been very well functioning for decades. For this reason, we believe that it is wiser to resolve specific questions about biocidal products with a rule that can be changed more easily without the need to discuss specific professional issues in the Assembly. It is easier to amend the rules than the basic law which lays down unchangeable principles. The top Croatian experts in the area of substances dangerous to human health, or dangerous chemicals, in cooperation with lawyers, are of the opinion that they have made a good law, with little corrections that are proposed to amendments that guarantee that the following directives of the European Union are fully covered, that the best that the 30-year protection system has achieved in the country is preserved, and that all the rules resulting from this law will be adopted within the deadlines, and the HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Chemical Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51781	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51782	It is incorrect that counterpart Brnadic said that by the law passed in October 2003, a complete chaos would take place. That is not true, it does not speak for itself, but only when it explains that unlike the current Chemical Act, which says it has far covered the entire area of chemicals this strictly adheres to these guidelines of the European Union and, in particular, to these guidelines, clearly distinguishes new from the old chemicals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51783	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS, SBH and MDS club, distinguished representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ministers and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Let us, with a few brief notes, refer to the proposal of the Chemical Act. First of all, as a PGS club, SBHS, the MDS tends to think it's a good thing it didn't try to apply the 2003 law for a very simple reason. For the reason that, regardless of whether it is content, whether it is a principle issue of moving it to the economy, the law did not have its breadth and its attempt to cover all those areas which covered the chance of being applied. For this reason, it is derivated and delayed by application, and then by the government regulation and it is clear that for this reason we need a new law. This law, which is before us, is in line with the EU acquis, with these seven secondary legal acts and is generally acceptable to our club. It is certain that the fundamental right to a healthy environment, or to live in a healthy environment, is the right of every human being, and that for that reason every organized society does its best to ensure that even though healthy life in a healthy environment today is difficult to imagine. We often live unhealthyly and in a polluted environment. It seems important and basic to us, the main thing that brings this law is the attempt to go to the Department of Chemicals and for us to get it all back together into a system that cares about it being returned to the existing system, to the health system, to its part that is the toxicology system and that the Croatian Institute of Toxicology with everything it does and with what else it will gain in competence will probably do its job very successfully, as most of all do all the other parts of the health system. As for some of the articles of the concrete promoters, we would suggest a few things or ask some questions for the final address of the minister. In Article 3, we are interested in why dangerous things used for scientific purposes are exempt from the Chemical Law. That's one thing. We are also interested in why plant protection funds, which are normally chemicals, and this part of us did not pay attention to what counterpart Martic spoke about this part of the Waste Act, and if it says that the Waste Act did not process that part, then this question also applies to this item that speaks of waste. As far as Article 8 is concerned, we also believe that there should be no exception in the event of a new chemical being placed on the market, a dangerous chemical. We absolutely don't think there's any need for exceptions. All economic operators who have an interest in this direction, and have the obligation to implement all the procedures in time, it is very simple and it is difficult now to imagine what kind of special social interest this should be without exception, or it can only be a special narrow economic or financial interest of a company or a group, and then it is not a social interest. Article 34 hailing, therefore, that the child had returned to his mother, so that this had returned to health care. We believe that in Article 34, when it comes to the process of notifying the content and method of data collection, etc. says the rules he makes, as prescribed by the Minister of Health, with the agreement of the Minister of Economy. We would suggest that the words "with consent" be replaced "with a previous opinion". I think the Minister of Economy should have the right to give one previous opinion, but in this area it should not be binding on the Minister of Health because this should be the first and only competent minister of health because if it is in agreement then very often I think we will be in a position to always impose higher economic and financial interests and then health protection is usually in the second plan. It's someone my opinion and opinion of us at the PGS SBS MDS club. We practically have the same thing in Article 53. The adoption of a list of dangerous chemicals shall be carried out by the Minister of Health, with the agreement of the Minister of Economy. We also think of the words "with agreement" to replace with "in the previous opinion" which I say again is not binding, of course, that in one communication the two ministers of one government are a certain procedure and coordination, but I think that the Minister of Health should not be bound by hands in the adoption of several of these basic regulations regarding this issue, which is of course important. In Article 54, we believe that individuals should also be guided by an eyewitness. Today, medical waste wherever it occurs has to be carried out by eyewitnesses, in the smallest hospitals where two employees work, we can't see why a natural person would have the right to barat, use dangerous chemicals without having an obligation to lead an eyewitness. We think it should be the same, so I'm thinking Article 2 or 3, I mean Article 2 of that regulation, you should delete it. We welcome the provisions of Article 63 to 65 on administrative inspection, and we would like to finally say that we hope that this provision of Article 75 on application on 1 July 2006 will not, in itself, mean the beginning of the continuation of the cycle of the application of the law as it was for the past and I say we are in principle in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51785	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51786	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a Chemical Act, with a final draft of a law which, unlike the applicable law, has in some way come out of the framework of the basic rules of the European Union on the protection of human and environmental health against dangerous chemicals, more respects the basic directives in the field of dangerous chemicals and biocides. In addition to this material that we have obtained, it is evident that the new law clearly distinguishes new from the old chemicals, with the provisions on the application and evaluation of new chemicals following the European Union regulations. The implementation of the law is based on an existing system of protection in the field of toxicology in the health system and, therefore, this legislative proposal, other than the procedures of appropriate jurisdiction in the field of protection against dangerous chemicals, is entrusted to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. It is already pointed out that the regulation of the European Union does not provide for the establishment of a chemical office, that it is present only in a few European Union countries and that no such office is established by the Ministry of Economy but by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I'd just like to say a few sentences and a personal review. It is prescribed that the provisions of this law will apply to products which may be harmful to man and the environment, which are designated by the Minister responsible for Health on a proposal from the Commission for Dangerous Chemicals. And then in the given materials are mentioned to us for those who also have a medical profession, known concepts, carcinogenic chemicals, mutagenic chemicals and reproductive-toxic chemicals. I must from this place, and encouraged by the events that have taken place in recent days, events, which are all followed in the media, express one and the satisfaction of my own that through the application of this law that takes effect on 1 January 2006 in one particular way one black stain in the Republic of Croatia will become at least gray. It is one of the factories that produces one of the most dangerous carcinogenic chemicals, in fact, it is their essential product, it is the plant of a salon in Vranjico that produces asbestos, and therefore Mr. Ministers I support this law and support the opinion of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology on the enquiries it has asked about asbestos and I believe that once there is a need to say stop, it is enough to disrespect the decisions of the Ministry of Health because it is precisely one such decision that is not respected when the deadline for transport and use and production of asbestos is now required. It's a complex problem, there's an employee problem, people who are sick, but I believe that you and the competent ministries can and you want to solve that problem to have that possibility, and this law is just a confirmation of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51787	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51788	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I absolutely support this proposal of the Chemical Act, which goes according to an emergency procedure, and in an explanation it is clear why. The existing 2003 law had two prolongations, practically almost two years and it was due to enter into force in 1.1 next year. Since the law is lacking and in some ways incompatible with the European Community directives, it should, by its own definition, be within the economy, and we have already heard in the debate that this would not be good. Therefore, this new law offers better solutions. He finally returned to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology the importance he had and when he was founded in 93, when he took care of people's health because he was founded. That everything that threatens human health, and that is our constitutional obligation, is strictly controlled and controlled by the Ministry of Health. This proposal for the Law strengthens and clearly sets the hierarchy and role, therefore, the administrative role of the Ministry of Health which controls everything, and the Croatian Institute of Toxicology is taking care of all processes from production to packaging of transport, etc. So there's a complete distinction between what's called transport and what's called transporting dangerous chemicals because transport is defined by something that's under customs control. And it's also clearly indicated, now there may have been some confusion in the debates, waste, plant protection, drugs, radioactivity, it's regulated by other regulations, other laws. Thus, this refers to strictly certain problems that are expected. This is all clearly explained in the wording and I think that this is how the Law is clear and precise and has set a practical place of jurisdiction in the right way. What I would agree with my colleague Ivanis, that when it comes to the Ministry of Economy, it might be better to say "in the previous opinion" because when it comes to consent, then some decisions may not be made in time because it will be a long-standing thing. And usually in situations like this, when chemical hazardous waste is involved, it must act quickly and immediately. So I think maybe that should change something else in the law by the time the law is passed. I'm saying, it's an emergency procedure, not much time, but maybe you can work on that, too. I have also noticed in some articles, Article 6, Article 9 and Article 12 where the minister is mentioned, but it is not said which. Since the economy minister is also mentioned then, some have been confused by whether it is the health minister or the economy. I think the Minister of Health should be added anywhere. Just one word, Minister of Health. And then that would be clear and maybe even for clarity, a lot of places are mentioned, something will be regulated by the rulebook. To specify in one article all the rules that will be laid down, which will be regulated by the Regulation. So if all the rules were to be counted then it might be even clearer. This is indicated in each article when it applies and where the regulation is mentioned, but it may be more simple because of transparency if it were mentioned in one article. Regardless of these, these small dilemmas that I felt reading the Law I think it was established, the Law established and clearly gave jurisdiction as to how the Croatian Institute of Toxicology so the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy, which, in my opinion, too should in some way be communicated at the level of the previous opinion rather than consent. In the end, I think the law is good and should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51789	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51790	I'll do it again. Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, I'd say, one very important law. If we look at all the substances, or chemicals mentioned here, then we can come to the conclusion of what kind of important law it is. True, we have so far had a Chemical Law that did not come into effect, which was passed in October 2003. This law, as has been said several times in the debate, means it has covered too wide a whole of the areas that are intruding into other laws, and if something is too wide, then there are certainly a number of irregularities where certain procedures and competences have not been clear, and then it has created certainly concerns in the economy, but also a general concern about the protection of life and health. But what the doctor would particularly point out here is this where the former Law mentioned the Chemical Office. Once in fact, I would say, the administrative body that should just be established means an additional complication, not to mention its incompetence for the area. So here it is very important that this means the responsibility of protection against dangerous chemicals is entrusted to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and the Ministry of Health itself. This would really be an experiment by now. We see in the assumption that only a few European Union countries have such a chemical office, and that it is nowhere in the Economy Office. And I think this really belongs to the area of health, if we look at the activities of our Institute of Public Health and the Department of Toxicology, then we see that everything that touches these substances belongs to health care. We see that the law means regulating here the issue of human life and human health, and environmental protection, but it also regulates the issue of the classification of these substances, packaging, labelling of chemicals dangerous to human health and, as well as the assessment of possibilities. I'd just say some things here that make me think this seems particularly important like very toxic chemicals, then toxic chemicals, harmful chemicals, then grizzly, irritable. Then chemicals that lead to hypersensitivity, carcinogenic chemicals, mutagenic chemicals that have reproductive harmful effects, toxic effects. Then these biocidal products. There was a speech here why there weren't any plant protection. Well, I think because we passed a special Law on plant protection, it didn't have to be included in this Act. It is also important that this Law creates, so there is no ambiguity here on shared responsibilities where the responsibilities and the Ministry of Health have been clearly determined by the Commission for Chemicals. Then there are the responsibilities of the relevant county offices and inspections and the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. But I would also say here that it makes business easier for businessmen, especially those who do business with some less dangerous chemicals. So, for example, in Article 45, it is said that such chemicals can be kept in the same room for other needs, but in special closets, which is a relief compared to current legal proposals. We also support this article in 47, where employment in such jobs is said to require prior medical examination, as well as the need to refer staff to periodic medical examinations, as well as to wear protective equipment. And we see that the article 59 also means clearly defined, i.e. Article 60, what the Croatian Institute of Toxicology will have and will do. I have to say the same way that surely this issue of protection against dangerous chemicals is not new to us, that it has been implemented so far. This Law re-adjusts and harmonizes that there are more than 10 thousand dangerous products and most of them have this and the documentation. And this new law will allow all these dangerous chemicals to be included in Croatia, but it will also make it possible to prevent accidents better, but also to act if those accidents happen. So, since the law has improved on these important issues, especially for those of us who deal with the health profession, and since it is in line with the laws of the European Union, I support its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51791	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51792	Honored Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates. We have before us a law that is born, I would say, after a completely unnecessary blockade of this important system, a system of protection against dangerous chemicals that is important not only for the Republic of Croatia but also important for the entire European Union, and of course beyond. Croatia had a system that cared for the safety of transport, transport and everything else about dangerous chemicals, which was founded back in the '90s, it received its legal contour in '93. the year in the then Law on Health Protection and the founding of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. This Croatian Institute of Toxicology played a brilliant role in protecting against dangerous chemicals especially during the Homeland War when it gave us great security in all those announcements of Serbian aggression that war poisons would be used, then that mysterious spider cast by the Serbian MiGs, if we want to take care of the dangerous chemicals that we received in donations with medicines that expired and at that time passed a test which later after the Homeland War passed into the peacetime function and we can say that in the 10 years of the existence of the Croatian Toxicology Institute there was not a single observation, appeal and no incident that would endanger the environment or human health. That's why I don't understand why for 10 years, so on the very 10th anniversary of this institute, there's been a change in the law that he's been abolished. Is it because he was roasted in the Homeland War or because we like to end everything that works well, but the consequence is that this Institute has been abolished and that in the new Law, the entire pyramid of responsibility is turned upside down. In the new law, and it was probably the main motive of taking responsibility for the management of dangerous chemicals was transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Economy. It is a constant struggle between those who want to make as much money on the economic plan as possible and those who want to ensure human health. That's the kind of battle we won when we fought for the sanitary inspection to stay in the health center, that's the kind of battle we were for the Department of radiation protection when the economy wanted to take over, that's the battle we were now. But, of course, there would be no confusion about the interests of the economy, it is about the interests of the pseudo-economics, because behind it are those who import dangerous substances on which they want to earn and regardless of the health of the public. So it's not about the interests of the Republic of Croatia's economy, it's about individuals, which is why I call it pseudo economic interests. That's why I welcome the adoption of this law in which I would point out three basics. First, that it is finally in line with the European directives, there are as many as 6 plus 1 regulations, and how important the problem is for the European Union shows us the first directive that was adopted at the time when the European Economic Community existed, so the first directive was adopted in 1976, which was also respected here until the last 2004 brought by the European Council and the European Parliament. Finally, the regulation of '93. the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, which speaks of the assessment and control of the risk of dangerous chemicals, has been incorporated into this Act. The second advantage of this Law is that there is a pyramid of responsibility. The Croatian Institute of Toxicology has complete care for expertise, complete care for records as provided for in Article 60, but has been entrusted with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which is the only competence to protect the health of people in this Croatia. The inspection that will carry out surveillance of this Act is an inspection that has great experience, it is a sanitary inspection, and the minister also has an advisory and professional body that guarantees the monitoring of the profession, which is a commission appointed by the minister and which consists of seven experts of all the professions needed for this problem, so they are experts in the field of toxicology, medicine, chemistry, pharmacies, biotechnology. This pyramid system also includes decentralised responsibilities because one part of responsibility is transferred to the counties and it is specifically to the offices of the state administration in the counties which also receive their place, namely they give approval for the production and transport of chemicals to a small extent, unlike the ministry which grants approval for the production and transport of chemicals to a large extent. The third important fact that has been adopted in this Law is nevertheless the interest of the economy to the extent to which health is not harmed. We have heard from individual representatives of club representatives criticise some articles that slightly more liberally resolve the placing on the market and production of dangerous chemicals than it is now. It should be said that this does not increase the risk because everything is under control and all the conditions will be laid down in the rules, but allows for the swing of a small and medium-sized entrepreneur, so it does not impair its activity and I think that this compromise is good that this part of the Law should therefore not be criticised, therefore more so than it is in accordance with those 6 directives of the European Union and the regulation that I have mentioned. So there was concern for this economy, but not for those who would make good money on the import of expensive and harmful chemicals, but for those who use them in production with a view to ensuring somewhat cheaper conditions, but equally safe as those that have been so far. In this way, the economy is represented, but the Ministry of Economy is represented and directly by the Minister of Economy giving consent to the list of chemicals that are banned or whose traffic is limited, so it is the most dangerous chemicals whose list is brought by the Minister of Health, and the Minister of Economy gives consent, so there is one direct control over these most dangerous chemicals. Finally, it should be said that this system is much more economical and cheaper than the previous Law has been proposed because it is the Croatian Institute for Toxicology, which is an independent financial existence precisely because providing professional and other services charges these services and can survive alone, and it only needs 200 thousand kuna per year from the budget which is not really a big problem. For all of this to be absolutely supported by this Law, it should also be supported in its urgent procedure because I would say back to the good positions of the problem which it handles and finally lasts, but not least I welcome and the decision in Article 9 that when placing new chemicals on the market does not have to repeat the experiment on animals, on the spines but can be taken, if the result of the previous results has already been made, then the minister can take over and thus provide protection to animals who often lose their lives needlessly and are needlessly victims of such attempts. This is also in line with the European Union, with those provisions that speak of promoting the interest, i.e. the protection of animals. In conclusion, because of these five highly positive solutions in this Law, I feel that it should be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51793	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I also support the adoption of this proposal for a Chemical Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, but I would like to say something not about this past Law that was passed, which had never entered into legal force, but something that was certainly contained in this Law, and that is not only not to be mentioned but is completely disqualified in one inappropriate way, as I have responded precisely by correcting the incorrect allegation. I would, of course, agree that in one part, in the part just as the Government itself explains that this bill, in relation to this so far, has clearly defined the procedures and competences in implementing the law itself in the system of health and the environment and in the area of the economy. These are certainly improvements in one absolute compliance with European Union legislation, especially with these directives, which are mentioned here in relation to new and old chemicals. However, the question is why it has given up broader regulation, as has been regulated by the law so far, which has established in a broader sense and the management of chemicals, and has also had these procedures to protect human health, property and the environment, which I am clearly repeating this Law to do better, or more precisely. The promoter himself says that this existing law has covered the entire area of chemicals too wide. But that's not how he got out of the basic regulations. It simply did not end and in a clear way resolved this way as required by the European Union rules on the protection of human health and the environment against dangerous chemicals. However, I would like to say in particular what has been expressed here by one great disdain that this past law has caused all this confusion, how is it nowhere that this particular office, the Chemical Office, and I agree that it is certainly better to put it in the jurisdiction of the Department of Toxicology of this particular authority, which is regulated by law, but perhaps less important in which the ministry finds a certain authority? Even in this particular case. Is that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy? It makes sense to me, too, that it is within this ministry. However, it is not a very sure guarantee that one right would be protected. Because it's just, here's the fact that it's within one ministry. Here's an example. One sad example. A six - month - old baby born without eyes will no longer be treated because that is the letter of the law. It is not recognised to parents the travel cost above that specific mileage, especially in the SDP Club. Even though it's in the Department of Health. And you can't do that, that one direct need. And I can't be there for miles to be an obstacle to a child, a small child, an powerless child not being able to get health care. ... Well, I'm saying that this is alchemy and there I'd agree with you so it's not just... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] one resistor guarantee that things will be settled there. [[You can't hear the speaker because of the microphone problem.]] Although it's kind of more logical... In the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the proposed law, I think that these funds... [[You can't hear the speaker because of the microphone problem.]] will not be enough for all that should be done by the Croatian Institute... [[You can't hear the speaker because of the microphone problem.]] a whole series of powers and duties given to them because they will once again have a whole series of provisions that are... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Under 600 thousand kunas you can't even talk about one system only records without talking about all these registers, eyewitnesses how this law, and later... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] What I'd like to say about the minister's authority. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Not because you would doubt the person of the current minister or one who will arrive should install a system that will be credible and that will not cause doubt about the impartiality of action and that... any other minister with regard to powers and duties. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The examination of the properties of dangerous chemicals can be carried out by legal persons authorised by the minister. And the Minister can empower the best legal person precisely in a state and in a situation... And what's it gonna do to a minister who's facing a whole series of problems in his big portfolio that's gonna give him this kind of authority... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[You can't hear the speaker because of the microphone problem.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51795	If he's exaggerating, then I will. When she's exaggerating, then I'm going to warn her just like it is on the other side when she's exaggerating.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51796	... Irregularity and discrepancies. [[You can't hear the speaker because of the microphone problem.]] Article 59. and Article 67 of both articles state that the Government will adopt, on a proposal from the Minister, the National Programme and the same security. So the article later in the transitional and final provisions exactly repeats the same note, the same... Only here he says he'll do it within a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not necessary, so you should delete or delete article 59, so complete it with that deadline or article 67, because here we have two identical norms that are repeated. And what is often repeated to us in the proposals of the law and what attention is drawn to, which is that this Law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal, and that it will not apply until 1 July 2006. That's completely unnecessary. It's causing a big mess. It may be understood that the minister has brought a whole series of legal acts, regulations within six months, and somehow when the rules are passed that then... commits already the minister to make sublaws. [[You can't hear the speaker because of a disturbance with a microphone.]] I therefore believe that this section should simply be deleted which states that the law enters into force on the eighth day, i.e. it should apply on 1 July 2006, which is an entirely appropriate deadline. Here's where this mess comes in because it's not just characteristic of this government. This has somehow been common throughout the years, and with such practice it should finally be interrupted. So was this Law, which was, the existing law that was passed in 2003, and it was, in effect, but will apply on 1 January 2005. So then, on two occasions, the government delayed its application. Well, then no one knows whether this law exists or doesn't exist anymore? Even the government here, in its explanation, says that the existence of this Law has caused a number of misunderstandings among economic operators even though the law has never entered into force. And these would be some valuable economic operators that are predominant, so precisely the provisions that will just come into force because the law has never begun to apply because unfortunately, in our legal situation, there is no law when it enters into force, when it applies, and let alone one that does not apply. And I therefore propose that this standard of Article 75 be brought into line and simply set out that the law should apply from 1 July 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51797	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51798	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In her comments of Article 58(1) and (2) on the fact that the examinations of the properties of dangerous chemicals can be carried out by legal persons authorised by the minister, so the colleague doubted that the minister was issuing to someone so that he could be suspicious of certain people that the minister issued an authorisation on the basis of what rules. However, colleagues, these are very, very exact and serious things that have been regulated by a series of regulations on how authorisation is given for the work of certain, authorised laboratories. In addition, paragraph 2 of this Article states that the Minister will prescribe certain conditions for legal persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51799	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51800	... The violation of the Rules of Procedure really for the protection of the Rules of Procedure is not here to outwit myself now and to say that neither did I say as my colleague said but was, it was a pure replica. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, abuse is a Rules of Procedure, violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 209. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, if this isn't happening. I'm not saying it's to favor them and make me feel hurt about what you've tolerated. Let us simply respect the laws under the light of the public, obey the regulations that we ourselves make so that we can expect these regulations to be observed by those laws that we make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51801	My colleague Antičević, I listened very carefully to each other. A colleague of Roksandić, Brnadic, claimed that you expressed doubts about one legal fact and she said that your assumption is not correct. ... It is. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is, what all MPs are doing is they're constantly going into the interference zone. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Very carefully, I'm closely following those who are all behind it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable deputy president of House Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51802	Dear Mr. President, ministers, government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us a proposal of the Chemical Act that prescribes the process of reporting new substances, the classification of packaging, the labelling of chemicals dangerous to human health and the environment, the exchange of data on chemicals, the way of assessing the potential risk to humans and the environment, the prohibitions and restrictions on placing on the market and use, and the conditions for the production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals. Someone here has pointed out that he hopes that this will not be a new delay in the application of the law, and I am convinced that because we know that the Croatian Parliament adopted in October 2003 an amendment to this law, and by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004 delayed the application of this law. But I also believe that it is good that there has been, at that time, a delay in the applicable law, because I believe that this law does not regulate the problem well in this area, and on the other hand, the bill strictly respects the basic provisions of the Directive in the field of dangerous chemicals and biocides and clearly distinguishes new from the old chemicals, i.e. those already on the approved European Union list. The provisions on the application and evaluation of new chemicals are also laid down in this proposal for a law on strictly following European Union rules. In addition, the applicable law does not specify clearly the procedures and competences of law enforcement. Mostly due to the widespread coverage of all chemicals and numerous irregularities, particularly related to the construction of a new system of health and the environment in the area of the economy, which is significantly better regulated by this bill. And the key elements for the functioning of the human health and environmental protection system against dangerous chemicals have been elaborated in detail. Also, this law and the establishment of the Chemical Office are not foreseen, and as we heard today in the debate, and we heard from the Ministers that there are only a few countries in the European Union that have that office. I think it's just two countries, and that's what he's saying here's the information. In fact, experts from the Croatian Institute of Toxicology made comments when adopting the applicable law and because of numerous observations and perhaps the most important ones were because of the abandonment or disposal of the entire health care system from dangerous chemicals, and that the new system had not yet been established. As well as crossing the entire system from the Ministry of Health's jurisdiction into the power of the Ministry of Economy, which has not actually provided the conditions for the application of this law. Furthermore, early application, as an example of why it is good that this law will not see the light of day, valid, or not applicable, because that law would completely abolish the border sanitary supervision of imports and exports, which means that around 120 thousand dangerous chemicals would be released annually, and exports to other countries in the amount of 40,000 tonnes per year would become completely free and unsupervised. And it should also be noted that the border inspection stops a week or 3 attempts at illegal imports, which, of course, includes banned chemicals. On its website, the Croatian Institute of Toxicology states that, in fact, it seems to me, the key moment occurred when the requested PHARE project worth 2 and a half million euros was requested to apply the applicable law. It may be interesting to point out that the European Union administration has accepted the project in principle and started many meetings and negotiations, but which have not been attended by healthcare professionals and have clearly explained why they do not support such a project. However, European Union experts have realised that all the forces in this area are in health care and have requested a tour of the competent health institutions, and this took place sometime in the spring of 2005 when they were given an overview of the entire existing system. They agreed that the existing system is good but needs to be improved and upgraded so that it can work with the same efficiency as the systems of the European Union countries. The result of these visits was that European Union experts were proposed to terminate the PHARE project until Croatia resolved the situation of competence for dangerous substances. Since there is no single directive in the European Union on chemicals in the drafting of this proposal for legislation, Directives of the European Union relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances, as well as dangerous preparations, the prohibition and restriction of the production and use of dangerous chemicals, the assessment of the risk control of dangerous chemicals, the authorisation of laboratory practice, animal protection in experiments, and the Biocidal Directive. The proposal for a law is fully harmonised with all those Directives, and respects the specificity of the time and process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and enables, as stated by the proposings, the flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to the legislation of the European Union. Here's to, at the end, I'm going to point out and I think it's important, so it's not important to mention, and the fact that this bill allows a great amount of savings compared to the existing law, and that is because it foresees doing business in the area that is being regulated in the system that is still fully functioning. And so I don't think there's really an alternative, and I'm also going to accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51803	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary...... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Is the minister here? Great. Minister Neven Ljubicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51804	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a short one, I'd like to thank you for this unique support of this law, but here I'm going to tell you that today the European Commission was in Zagreb and I'm going to tell you that they were actually being skeptical whether this would actually be accepted regardless of what we said absolutely must be accepted, because this system works. I'm sorry there aren't any MPs who asked me a specific question, so I can't answer them, but therefore Parliamentarian Ivanis is here, so I'll answer briefly. Certain things such as waste, such as plant protection or, for example, products used for scientific purposes and working in analytical laboratories, are regulated by separate laws, and this is practically part of these directives that we have fully adopted. So the Law on Plant Protection, I don't know the Waste Act, etc. They regulate that system for themselves. Another perhaps item that remains open, that is, in Article 8. This Article 8 is the copy of the article in the Directive. It's actually about the intervention of traffic. So, at year level, all of you who want to introduce new chemicals for the process of some production must predict them. Of course, there can be that their production will be increased over the year and they need to introduce a certain chemical. Why? To maintain production. Then such a process, the classical process is too long and that is why we allow them intervention imports. But he will be, intervening traffic. But it will therefore be regulated by a special regulation and specific rules so that in no segment it will virtually compromise the system. Thank you again, therefore, for your support, I think it's unmistakable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51805	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the final bill. Final proposal of the Chemical Act. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go. Amendment 1st MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51807	It's fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51808	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 2. PGS, SBH and IMF representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51809	It's not accepted as I've said several times in the debate. Article 8 is complete with Directive 92/32 and in exceptions to the placing on the market of a new substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51810	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51811	So our club still holds that there should be no objective, in fact there should be no objective circumstances why it would be particularly important to allow the placing on the market of chemicals without prior application and completed procedures. We're staying with it, so we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51812	Please, there's a vote to be made. Let's get on with it. Who's in favour of this amendment? We can vote. Score. 26 for, 4 abstentioned 62 against, did not get the required majority. 3. Representatives Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51813	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51814	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 4. PGS, SBH and IMF representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51815	The amendment cannot be accepted because the regulation refers to a matter in the jurisdiction of two ministries and it is normal that two ministers need consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51816	Mr. Pavlic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51817	We are therefore still of the opinion that the Minister of Health should, therefore, be given an opinion, not the agreement of the Minister of Economy. Therefore, it must not be limited by its consent as it concerns measures of importance for human health, healthy life and the provision of conditions for less environmental pollution. We're staying with the amendment, so we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51818	Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Twenty-four for it. Seven abstentions. 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Representatives Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51819	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And Article 58 to examine the properties of dangerous chemicals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51820	Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51821	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, when I proposed this amendment, I was told that the legislator was in a way more specific about who would carry out these analyses because this is how it can be interpreted and that it is done by authorised institutions and also by an internal laboratory, and I think that we should primarily and exclusively internal laboratories, so here I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51822	Amendment 5 withdrawn. Amendment 6 of MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51823	It's fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51824	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 7. also the amendment of MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51825	It's fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51826	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 8th Representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51827	The amendment is accepted in full.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51828	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Nine. The PGS representative club of SBH and IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51829	We cannot accept this amendment because, as I said in the last explanation, here a list of dangerous chemicals actually penetrates the two ministries. Therefore, it is normal for us to have the consent of two ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51830	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51831	Here are the reasons that are the same for the previous amendment so we stay with our amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51832	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 18 for. 11 abstentions. Fifty-six against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten. The Club of Representatives of the same PGS of SBH and IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51833	It's unacceptable. Namely, there should be no evidence of natural persons for irritable chemicals and chemicals that lead to hypersensitivity. What would that actually mean in real life? Anyone who buys Sanitar's toilet would actually have to sign up for an eyewitness. Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51834	Thank you. Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51835	We're staying with our amendment. We don't interpret this amendment so intensely. We think the individuals who use these chemicals more must be kept by an eyewitness. You know who that applies to. So we're staying with this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51836	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Ten for it. 13 vs. 13 abstentions. [[Intruder: 13 abstentions.]] 61 against. The 11th is an identical amendment. We've already voted on him, so we don't vote. 12. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51837	It's fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51838	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 13. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51839	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51840	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 14th of the same Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51841	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51842	It becomes an integral part of the Law. And 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51843	It's partially accepted. They would therefore propose, with the amended date of entry into force, to enter into force on 30 December 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51844	The president of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51845	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51846	It's consensual. In the amended form of amendments, it becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51847	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51848	I am voting on the final proposal for a chemical law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the Chemical Act in the text proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 389 Proposer of the Law is Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Deputy Secretary of State of the Central Government, Pavle Maticic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51850	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law establishing and delirious the central authorities of the state administration stipulates that administrative and professional activities relating to special protection of families in which mutual relations are violated, the protection of children whose parents live separately, the protection of children who are not properly cared for, adopted, the protection of children and minors with behavioural disorders and children and adults under care, as well as the monitoring and enforcement of obligations as well as the conduct of international conventions on the protection of the interests and rights of children will be carried out by the Ministry of Health and Social Care by 31 December 2005 and, with effect from 1 January 2006, the conduct of jobs would be taken over by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. However, in a situation where you start reforming social care and the need to re-design rational treatment and for less uncertainty users, it has been estimated that radical procedures could slow down the initial reform and build a recognizable family system. It is also estimated that simply transferring competences from one ministry to another would not result in a desired quality shift. Respecting these circumstances, it has proved to be in the section of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare until further notice of matters in the area of family and legal protection, and in the section of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, an irregular part of business in the family, i.e. professional business in preventing family crisis situations, family counselling and preventive treatment with children, youth, parents, marriage partners, persons with disabilities and other family members, would be transferred. This separation through the principle of phasing out takes into account the reform of the social care system and the state administration and strengthens the state and local support of families, children and youth and other persons in order to prevent the creation of risky circumstances and to provide support to the family in response to the modern level and to initiate administrative procedures and without the initiation of administrative procedures and other legal actions. So according to this bill, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity of 1 January 2006 would carry out professional activities of prevention and counselling, and the Ministry of Health and Social Care would, in accordance with the proposal, carry out administrative tasks relating to special protection of families in which mutual relations are violated, especially among spouses, the protection of children who are not properly cared for, adopted, the protection of children and minors with behavioural disorders and children and adults under care. These are the basic issues proposed to be regulated by this final draft of the law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51851	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51852	Mr. President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. One of the priorities of our government and us in the Parliament is strengthening both the place and the role of the family in society and family we must really give and bring it to the very heart of the state policy, because the family is indeed the foundation of society. Therefore, it is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to create all assumptions for the development of services that contribute to strengthening the institutions of the country intended for families, mothers, children and other social groups. In accordance with the latest amendments to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration since 1.1.2006, in the jurisdiction of implementing one part of the social care business, these are social institutions for children and young people, children and young people with behavioral disorders, and also businesses from the part-round family are transferred to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. In particular, the provisions of Article 26 of the last amendments to the Law on Designation and Business have been laid down that administrative and professional tasks set out in the section of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity relating to the special protection of families in which mutual relations are violated, particularly among spouses, the protection of children whose parents live separately, the protection of children who are not properly cared for, adoption, the protection of children and minors with behavioural disorders and children and adults under care, as well as the monitoring of obligations and the conduct of the adopted international conventions by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and from 1.1.12.2005, and jobs will be taken over by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. However, as the deputy secretary of state has also stated, it has often been assessed at the beginning of the implementation of this reform that the transfer of competence from one ministry to another ministry would not be effective and would not achieve the objectives set out. Therefore, this amendment to the Law provides for the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to continue its activities in the area of social care and administrative affairs in the area of family and legal protection. In the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, these irregular jobs are transferred from the family’s work, i.e. professional business in preventing family crisis situations, family counselling and preventive treatment with children, youth, parents, marriage partners, persons with disabilities and other family members. Here comes the separation of those preventive functions, meaning advisory, and those classic purely administrative functions. In any case, what is very important and the transfer of any competence itself may not lead to results and what we always advocate, we advocate that the tasks to be done within the framework of the state bodies in which professional and quality people work and which are actually equipped with adequate means and for work. And that is why once again on this occasion when it comes to amending the Law on the Establishment of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, we advocate as much as possible the material status of our civil servants and our tenants as possible, for as much as possible the equipment and information of these bodies as possible, because that is the only way they can actually obtain quality results. It is also the right of every government to establish central government bodies, to create such a structure that it considers to win the best results and where it will achieve its policy objectives. So is the right of these governments and we are aware, of course, of the Parliament, when we accept such proposals to bear responsibility for the effectiveness of such bodies and such changes. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51853	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51854	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. First of all, I must say that the Croatian party's club is the right and 22 December 2003 when the basic law was passed warned that it was a poor part-round and jurisdiction of the ministries. That there's a lot of uncertainty, that there's a lot of overlapping jurisdiction which is bad because the Law on the formation of ministries and state administrations, as it was then called, is now called the Law of Design and the Detect of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, is a law which precisely determines jurisdiction and partial work. So now, what happened? I can call this on behalf of the HSP club that a lot of this creamy approach has been from the beginning to today. And unfortunately, the consequences of all this are all these situations that we can follow in the media and the case of little Ivo from Vinkovci and the case of all these, the adoption of children and everything else. Namely, let's just remind ourselves. On December 22nd, when we passed the Law, it was said that all these jobs would be done by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. It was true, meaning separation, which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which is within the jurisdiction. And the Law has not even started to apply yet in March 2004 we get a novel in which it is said, this famous article 26, that these jobs, however, are administrative and professional jobs relating to special protection of families in which interpersonal relations are violated, especially among married friends, the protection of children whose parents live separately, the protection of children who are not properly cared for, the adoption and protection of children and younger minors with behavioural disorders and children and adults under care, as well as the monitoring and enforcement of obligations, and the conduct of international conventions on the protection of the interests and rights of children by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. True, that is when it is said that these jobs will be done by 30.9.2004. And now it comes in the year 30.9.4., and again we have an emergency procedure to amend and supplement this law. So when the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, when these jobs were finally to be taken over by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as stated in the basic Law of 22 December 2003. We say in this novel that these jobs will continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, but now we say it will be final for December 31st this year. Now he's approaching December 31st this year and I'm not surprised, we're at the HSP club because we're exactly... that something like this is gonna happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now it's going to change and supplement again, but this time it's totally a bad approach. Here, look. It's a bit of an interesting situation that one ministry will do administrative work and the other ministry will do professional work. But in all teams of self-prescription, I don't know who he prescribed from whom, we now have a provision where it is clearly said that the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare will perform, that is, this is Article 1, the new paragraph 3 of that article, that is, the existing Article 13. He says, "The Ministry," thinks health care and social care, "is doing administrative work related to special protection", and all of this now that I've quoted before. Now we're looking at professional affairs, so where the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is now there's no one to do these professional jobs. All you have to do is do administrative work, you don't have professional jobs. I don't know what I could tell you right now. Look, as you literally copied it, you copied it so that you put only administrative jobs in place, and we know what administrative jobs are. It's a solution to rights and obligations, mahogany would be an administrative act, a solution, right? And now no one's gonna do business anymore. See now in Article 2 of this final proposal of the Law, Article 16(4) is amended and reads. Now there's nothing more. So I don't even know what to say about these accelerated changes and additions. Well, that's been going on since December 22, 2003, and in the end, I know that the hardest thing for this Central State Office is because it has to defend everything and everything. Whatever he's told has to be done, and as it's been discussed with the government's authorities, which is what the Bureau of Law has been doing, and the rest of them, it's really not clear to me. We would be willing to support the introduction of work once, to know who is in this area and this area. But it's hard to support something like this when you can't see what's behind it. You've got administrative, no professional work. So how is that possible? I have not seen this in theory or practice yet, but Bosnjakovic says well, the government has the right to propose everything. He has the right to propose everything, but he must not forget about children as large and important as possible. This is about professional jobs relating to children. If professional jobs are done as prescribed by law and if all is set up then there will be fewer of these administrative jobs. So there will be far less of these administrative matters, or of taking away family rights, or of all other things that can be considered. But it's interesting, I don't know what to say at the end, but I just hope I don't have to read any more of these texts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51855	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51856	My colleague Kovacevic, I did not say that the government has the right to propose everything but that the government proposes what it considers to be the most effective, that it is the best and organisation that will actually contribute to the achievement of its objectives, and that is not all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51857	SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51858	Dear President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. You see, if it wasn't tragic, this would be comical. It's been half a term of office, the government can't decide whether children and disabled persons will be dealt with by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of the Family or in some matters will be dealt with by the Ministry of Health, and in other things, the Ministry of the Family and what things it will be. When you abolished the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, they told you immediately to do stupid things, that you would spend your mandate as you classify that ministry in several ministries and that it was a common demagogy, that you were reducing the number of ministries and as you reduce the government, you did not reduce the number of state officials but you increased them because the secretary of state was countless, you spent more money on them from the state budget, but easy and for that. But because you're classifying this ministry, you're moving matters out of jurisdiction into the jurisdiction of the other ministry things aren't being done properly, they all stand. Okay, here's my colleague, Bosnjakovic, and I agree, so the government is right. The government has the right to bring its own structure as it pleases, as it thinks it will be most efficient and has a colleague, Bosnjakovic, but it is done at the beginning of the mandate, because it is probably coming to power and to see what it will do and what the ministry will do, and not that the entire mandate of the government will try to figure out what would be the most effective and how it will now work out to be good. This is the simplest spill from hollow to blank, this doesn't make any sense at all. Let's see the explanation. The explanation says this, number one, says: "The Constitution guarantees the protection of families, motherhood and children in particular." And now because the Constitution is particularly guaranteeing this, we have now decided that the rights of children so far cared for by the Ministry of Health will be taken care of by the Ministry of the Family. But they say you can't start reforms, you can't make radical moves, so we can't do it too quickly, God forbid, we have to do it gradually, so first where these reforms are, these reforms are gone at all, what are major and revolutionary reforms in social care? Where? The simplest flossula, and now it says it wouldn't compromise or slow down the initial reform, we'll gradually do it, so we can hope that this isn't the last procedure either, so we can't be too radical until the end of the term of office expect two of these changes. We talked here a lot yesterday about the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities and what did we conclude there in that debate, what did we come up with? The report sent by the government that many things were not done because the ministry was the one that had to be done, took them 10 months to establish at all, that at all institutions that they were not competent and that it was actually the job of another ministry. Then when that request to do it came to the second ministry, then they said well, and now we have to team up, let's start a professional team. And then they started an expert team and then they gave themselves the task of recording the existing state. This was the government's part-time mandate, to determine whose job it was, to set up some kind of expert team around the job, and to record the existing state of play. What did people with disabilities go through? Has it helped them? Nothing. Nothing was done by what should have been done long ago under that National Strategy. Now jurisdiction is changing again. The jurisdiction is changing again. Now again, it will take the second half of the term of office to first find their new rooms, their new rooms, to find their tables, while institutions who are their boss, if the boss doesn't have to appoint the boss, so when the boss is appointed, and while he gives them some concrete work, while they start doing so, there goes the mandate, a term of four years goes. With such a proposal, the government not only shows that it had absolutely no idea what it wanted with the Ministry of the Family, which it wants with the abolition of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare and moving it under 3 ministries, absolutely no idea. She here shows that children, children who are swearing under special constitutional protection, were played the last hole in the play because they are balled in half of their term with the jurisdiction of children. The government shows that they don't care about the disabled or their protection at all because they are also being balled for half of their term, and they say we will slow it down a bit because it says that these reforms must not be done too quickly, so the other half of the mandate will probably go so. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues, this is a completely unnecessary legislative proposal, you have a government structure, you have brought it yourself, no one has interfered with how you will schedule the ministries and what jobs you give them, no one, you have brought it yourself, you have to do it, you have to do the job, you have to deal with the children and the disabled, don't deal with yourself and your ministries because this is rude, this is at least rude to come in half of the term of office with such a legal proposal, this is totally unacceptable, this is cynical to children and people with disabilities, this is in one word embarrassing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51859	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51860	It's an incorrect assumption that this government, I quote, has done nothing for people with disabilities. It's an incorrect allegation, and it's offensive and cynical and it's rude, and there's still a lot of expressions that might make this allotted to this government, that this government's last hole was played. Dear fellow, the debate on reform or the system of state administration absolutely does not deserve these terms and assessments that you have now given. It's both cynical and rude and unworthy of this, in the extreme line of your debate and what you've also sent to the public from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51861	Second correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51862	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Stazić, it is not true that this government has spent half of its mandate only on the structure as you often say it on paper, but this government has joined its proposal of the plan and we could see and implement its proposal plan and the results are numbered and written and they are visible from day to day and I will in turn as much as I do, and yesterday you could hear when we talked about the National Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities, not only for the report but also for that 2005 Strategy, the year 2006. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity in 2004 signed cooperation agreements with accessibility-solving projects for persons with disabilities for whose implementation in 2004 the ministry allocated a billion 434 million and 958 thousand kuna. During 2005, funds of €1 billion and €499 million were provided for the same purpose. Tips for children, youth, work and family were established Thank you. [[Aggression: Lock it up!]] I'll move on when I get a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51863	Please. PGS PGS representative club of the IMF, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51864	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Let me start this brief statement on this bill proposal with one dilemma that has actually shown itself in the previous two already in a certain way. The question arises whether through this, these amendments and additions, we are discussing reforming the structure of the state administration, whether we are talking in a certain way further about reforming the social system or reforming the care of family, mother and child, or whether we are talking in one part and about health reform. I think that in fact, the questionnaire opens up in substance and the answer to this question is not clear is a definitive answer that we as a PGS SBH MDS club tend to take the view that we are bringing something that we do not know which will win and that we are bringing something that is looking at the concept when we talk about the concept of reform of the social system whether it is clear that it will not well end the overlapping of the departments and that it will not end well even overlapping the system of jurisdiction. I would be free to propose to MPs who are willing to take as a shrewd rehearsal in the centres currently dealing with this problem 4 or 5 cases in their cities, in the county centres, in social work centres to take 5 items and to see how long these items are being taken, both in terms of content and expertise and how they are being guided and in terms of administrative procedure, and about the only thing that can be said is that they are not being led in any way, they are being done in a sloppy way, and that is a circle in which people, families, families, families that are in difficulty do not come to an end. The fact is that in this term it started with very great appetites to create a large and ministry and a large sector. Family, defenders and everything that's been put in there. The fact is that I bow to those who feel that we do not see the results of the realization and rounding of this sector in terms of the creation of a single system. And that's why I don't agree with my colleague Kovacevic when he's kind of feeling sorry for himself and said it's hard, it's hard, as he understands, said the State Administration Office that defends something that can be difficult to defend. Well, of course it's hard. I don't think you should even defend it. In terms of the content of this beside you, the same should be the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Health, so that they say that one content that is a whole will be managed successfully in such a way that we have two separate bureaucratic systems in which one will lead the prevention, and the other will run the administrative process. There's no such thing as great luck. I believe that somewhere deep down, you share at least partially what I say. Secondly, it is quite clear in all these relations that come from the Government to Parliament, so I think the Ministry of Health is a little bit regrettable right now by the Croatian parliamentary and executive authorities. From the way it went on the rebalancing budget with a loss of a few hundred million who moved somewhere else to transfer them so easily and simply to continue to move new things that should have gone in terms of cleaning up the sector managed by the Ministry of Health or somehow going out to some level to see what someone should do. Apparently, the Ministry of Health has failedly defended itself from it, and then it can remain everything to him. So now it's finally known that it's going to run an administrative procedure, and who's going to lead the expert this second one remains open to time. That's not good. I think this law should be withdrawn. Of course you won't do it. I don't think my opinion is what you're about to adopt, but I don't think there's any luck ahead. We have unrealised ideas in the beginning of forming the Ministry of Family, Defence and so on and now we have one nightmare here that is constantly, going on creating problems for others and other sectors. Centres for social work and family centres in the way they are pictured through the reform are also in, I think extremely, extremely difficult situation to function and let alone something else. So on behalf of the PGS Club, we believe that we are not on the verge of improving what should be the result here. And that's why we think it would really be better not to deepen this way relations between social welfare and family care and health care, and I'm going to end up with something that I've said at least twice this year: this will happen to us every time we have a health ministry as a result of various political compromises. We used to have those famous social services that listed the mass of it, so it came from a ministry that must be with, in which there must always be social and health care and now a lot more. This country needs a health ministry, and everyone responsible in the business executive structure should do their job. Someone social, someone should worry about the health and health conditions of the people. It's this structured ministry, and with what we've got going through everything that we've got here today, to see, push, it can't come true, it can't come true. And that's why we're standing and sticking to what's most important, and we're not moving around in that, and that's the health reform that we're not moving around in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51865	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51866	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues, this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Establishment and Circular of the Central Authority of the State Administration, consisting of several articles of 5, speaks of what needs to be bridged and what needs to be done as soon as possible and in a gradual manner so that the work of the ministries becomes effective and effective. Of course, the provisions set out the work of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, the conduct of social affairs and administrative affairs in the field of family and legal protection. Article 1 also refers to changes in the wording of toxic chemicals. Of course, in order to specify and align more precisely with the European Union Directive on the classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous substances, this should be done permanently and continuously. In addition to Article 2 that this should already be highlighted in detail, it lists, excuse me, my colleague has stopped me a little. Also spoken what in the section of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is doing professional and preventive jobs in the area of the family. [[/Intruder: What?]] Of course, it is useful to perform these specific tasks in order to prevent family crisis situations, family counselling, and preventative treatment with children, youth, parents, marriage partners, persons with disabilities, and other family members. The programme also includes not only the Croatian Government and ours is placed at the heart of all events of our family so that we can, of course, direct and operate in a preventive way with children, youth and parents, and married partners and persons with disabilities and other members of such a family. It is also to be pointed out what the proposer is doing very precisely and nomotechnically, and it is said that more will be taken over from the Ministry of Health, Social Serbs, and that is, all those performing professional and administrative tasks relating to special family protection in which mutual relations have been violated, especially among the spouses. Statistical data are recently available and talk about the number of divorced marriages for the city of Zagreb. The easiest thing to do is divorce but the problem is that children of divorced parents can stay normal and can have full care that their parents, father, and mother do not live together. Protecting parts of parents’ lives separately, so those children who are unfortunately not cared about by their parents, for there are more and more of that every day. Not only because of the accelerated life and work, but because it's at the heart of a coma like that, in the quotes of "parents." Then the adoption, protection of children and minors with behavioural disorders, children and adults under care, as well as monitoring the enforcement of obligations, and the conduct of the international conventions on the protection of interests and rights of children are listed. All this says is that our job as a legislative body is to constantly perfect and amend laws and regulations. Therefore, such a final proposal for a law establishing and delirious the central authorities of the state administration must also be adopted by country.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51867	Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51868	You see, colleague Peronja, you said this law was supposed to solve something, right? This law was obviously to be changed because of this law that we previously discussed, which is the Law on Dangerous Chemicals, right? And then the team took advantage of the occasion to further poison the relations between the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of the Family, right. So now you have in this law, not to solve things, but to counter some future events and laws that we are about to discuss. So you already know exactly who's going to decide who's going to start family centres, who's going to oversee their work, who's going to establish a network of family centers, even though we haven't passed the Family Centres Act in general yet. I don't know how we can already say who should make the decision about establishing a family center if we have yet to get the Family Centers Act into another reading. Maybe there's a real promoter who adopts what the Law on Local Self-Government says about social welfare is about to be decided by local self-government units, so he'll say that the decision to set up family centres is made by the representative body of the local self-government unit, and then we'll have to come back, sit here and change this law. So this law or the writer of this law may not know that an emergency procedure has been removed from the Family Centers Act and that the Family Centers Act has gone to another reading and that it is not known what it will be essentially. Well, we can't say here which ministry will decide to appoint a director of the family center, because no one in this country knows that yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51869	Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51870	Here I will just once again deny it, because in Article 16(4), it is changing and the voices that the ministry performs, the professional affairs of counselling and prevention relating to marriage and the reduction of divorce, the reduction of abortion, the mutual relations between parents and children, the maintenance and other circumstances in the family that require professional assistance and support, child rearing, adoption, prevention of all forms of child and youth addiction, the problems with disability, the inclusion in everyday life after a long stay in the educational institution. Also performing professional and inspection work on the work of family centres. So this is one of the administrative procedures. Encourage the establishment of a counselling centre for children and young families of persons with disabilities and victims of family violence. Of course, this is also one contribution that even more decentralised tasks of the central government to municipalities, cities, or county. Of course, by harmonising all possible regulations that we are going to make and making, they are being done parallelly and in walking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51871	Second replica, Honored Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51872	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's an esteemed colleague who says that we need to bridge the existing problem and that we should do it as soon as possible, probably justifying this urgency of the process. A little, however, seems cynical and says should be done as soon as possible, after two years of the term of office. The logical question that's being asked is what you've been doing over the past two years. To which end, the second issue that can be asked is the establishment of the ministry, including family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, and before that the two ministries have been abolished. For that ministry with that weird name, I bet 99% of the public doesn't even know exactly what it's called, and even less what's in his jurisdiction. But the government doesn't seem to know what's in that ministry's jurisdiction either. It cannot be avoided the impression that the ministry was formed, among other things, for demagogue and political reasons and personal needs, perhaps in a presidential campaign that ended as we know it. That the government does not have a strategy and that it will not even have it seems to me that it is also evident from this law, this bill of law, and by the end of the term of office, it will not have a thing to implement. Indeed, gentlemen of the HDZ are a strange way to move Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51873	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51874	It is this bill of law that is before us the confirmation of that programme that the Croatian government has adopted. This two-year term, I believe that the programme will be achieved before the four-year period is up. They are also taxing and all of them are listed by a business that is changing and making it more efficient and efficient for the central authorities of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51875	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51876	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. Well, here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the central authorities of the state administration, of course with the Final Proposal of the Law, and the amendments to the proposed law absolutely need to be supported because they are determined, i.e. by the division of jurisdiction between the central authorities of the state administration, so the resolutional ministries. In a particular situation, it is certainly a matter of disseminating competence between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare on the one hand and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity on the other. It is, in fact, part of the work directly related to the social care system that would be regulated in the future in such a way that the Ministry of Health and Social Care does administrative work and relating to the special protection of families in which mutual relations are violated, then the protection of children who are not properly cared for, adoption, protection of children and minors with behavioural disorders and children and other persons under care. Secondly, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, all starting from 1 January 2006, would carry out professional activities of prevention and counselling relating to marriage, population policy, parents and children's relations, child rearing, fostering parental responsibility and caring for family members, and how all this finely stands in the article that changes, i.e. which we have completely in the text of naturally proposed amendments. This law certainly contributes not only to institutional strengthening of the body of the state administration but it does create basic normative conditions for the implementation of a whole set of programmes relating to civil society activities and sectors, especially in the implementation of national family policies, national action programmes for young people, national children's programmes in the Republic of Croatia, then single policy strategies for people with disabilities, national strategies for protection against domestic violence, etc. So the entire segment of social care that we have and in the light of the law itself in terms of reform procedures in that segment is sufficiently indicative of what is to be achieved by amending this particular law. In a formal legal sense, and which is not irrelevant to stress, a clear and precise distinction of jurisdiction is introduced, indeed, or more order and responsibility should be introduced, overall considering the social care system, although nothing else in this particular sense should support this regulation. So it's because of the clear demarcation of jurisdiction. Furthermore, we are witnessing and reforming our activities together by looking at social care, and it can revive, i.e. obtaining its positives only on the condition that the system of state administration, i.e. the structure and part-rounding of the central authorities of the state administration becomes, are defined in a clear and regulatoryly reviewed and acceptable manner. I personally believe that this bill will allow for not only further development of the activities of social care but also the implementation of the reform in its fullness in 2006. In accordance with everything exposed, absolutely this bill in the present form should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51877	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51878	So you see a colleague said this is about demarcation of business. I may not have the same text of the law in front of me. I've read what they've read so far in the job description of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of the Family and everything else, and I see that practically Article 16 has been completely changed, not only to distinguish business, but that's how the Ministry of the Family is going to get one very important function and authority that should obviously be given to all other ministries called the distribution of publications from their district, so I guess now we'll have with the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Assistant, the Chief of Service and the Corps, you know. And it's the only ministry in its department of affairs that has a distribution of publications of its own part-round, right? Even there is no such thing as neither, or there is, it says doing promotional, information and printing work. What it means is that it will also have a printer in its composition, the Ministry of the Family, says both distributions and publications from its district. One of the most important areas where we need to inform the public is the area of state adaptation in pre-accession negotiations, we need to sensitize the public, we need to get to know it, we need to get citizens, we need to get them to participate in reforms. Now, you see if you should write that somewhere, then you should maybe write in the affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, but it doesn't say that, there's what the job of a ministry is, and that's to inform, to get to know the public about what it's doing, but not to distribute the publication, because then you should probably see how penetrating these materials are going to be through the market, how many sales places, where they're going to be and how the corporations have done their jobs and everything else. So a whole new job description and a brand-new role for the ministries. So far we have not had it anywhere, nor has it been known in European practice that no one is involved, some ministry is dealing with the distribution of its materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51879	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51880	Dear Mr. Mršić, I don't care what law you read, whether you read this law or some other law. I know that I have read and explained the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Design and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration and I have argued and I have argued and now your debate or replica supports me even more in that position, is that you are not now fitting a clear distinction of jurisdiction within the framework of the establishment of the State Administration's office as a basic normative basis, so that the activity of social care as a segment of one and another ministry could be placed in 2006 and the programme itself, so the reform programme in the next time period. Let's go out and say what's systematized in the part of the circle so we can caricate it in the way that you do it in terms of the presentation of the promotion, even linking it to the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. That's pretty untasty. Especially, you see, now you're angry, you're nodding your head when I've only used the term "untasty", because it's untasty to comment on that activity that applies to children, to disabled people, to social care, etc. So I would like to say that this is not a joke, the promoter was not joking with this matter, but therefore the existing problem wants to be systematised first in the context of the future structure of the state administration so that this social programme or this social segment of government activity could be properly implemented in 2006 and in the next period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51881	Honorable representative Ivica Pancic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51882	Here's a thank you. There's no room for anxiety, and the government can make a mistake. And at the end of 2003, the government came up with an powerless proposal to form a state administration, and that is why we are now wasting time to fix what is probably not to be fixed. He says, sir, an esteemed representative says these amendments to the law are necessary in order to clearly distinguish jurisdiction and introduce more order and responsibility. A rhetorical question that can be asked, does this mean that the formation of the state bodies from 2003 contributed to the disorder and irresponsibility, and by looking at the Croatian reality it seems that you are right and for the first time the criticism of the government comes from your ranks and that is good and I commend it. It's not easy to defend this law and I'm not really envious of you, because some laws just can't defend themselves. But in the necessity of these changes, I would believe that the government, so not now parliamentary representatives, but that the government admits a mistake and says we made a mistake, we made a mistake in late 2003, and now we're trying to correct that mistake. Of course we'd say, the former government you declared incompetent, that's your right, but then what do we call what this current government is doing now? I'll leave that to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51883	Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51884	Well, a representative of your club has made a fine statement to these government efforts, with really offensive expressions that I won't even repeat. Speaking in front of the club is chosen words, expressions... cynicism, irresponsibility, etc., with one tasteless, inappropriate manner assessed these efforts and proposed legal text. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first one. Second of all, about anxiety, no colleague, I'm not nervous, you know? Here we have a concrete legislative proposal that, by my assessment, doesn't really have to be true, actually improves the situation in a way that lays the foundation for the future functioning of the state administration system. You're certainly right, it's your right to caricate him. But let me also be my right to warn you when certain segments of that future structure caricate and twist, in fact, by my assessment, inappropriately and even a mockery. Dear Mr. Representative, you're also the former minister. I, if I were to go, would really give me a little five minutes, all of your activities when you ran that ministry and that resulted in what and what, and not to say and to estimate that this segment, like, or the defence population, should really, in another way, protect not only normatively, but also the system of leading the resolution ministry, where we would have arrived. Actually, not one thing, I could spend a lot more debate on that. A concrete answer to you. There's no anxiety. On the contrary, this Government proposal aims to improve the system of state administration in the social care segment, and this will follow when we pass the law, when we adopt this legal solution in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51885	Replica, honor representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51886	You see, dear colleague Tomljanovic, I'm actually surprised at you. You have now objected to defend this legislative proposal as necessary, smart, quality, necessary, just ideal. So I'm asking you, when the basic law was passed, when the government proposed its structure, so instead of defending that law then, which you didn't tell the government at the time, so look, it's no good to you, you should still distinguish it in this way that the government is proposing. That you were saying that at the time, and you weren't heartily defending the law that you're now saying needs to be fixed, and then you said it was also phenomenal, and now it's supposed to be fixed because it obviously wasn't right and in the government's view, you're now defending the exact opposite position of the one you defended in the adoption of the basic law. Now you're saying here, here, you need to do it, it's urgent, there's got to be a distinction between two ministries. And I'm telling you, colleague Tomljanovic, it doesn't have to be done. It had to be done. It had to start right away. It's a job at the beginning of the term of office. The government determined its own structure, neither did Austria nor Austria, nor did anyone define it. She said herself she would. She said herself she would. So if maybe some things can't work on their own, but this one could. This job could really have done it on its own. But you know why he didn't? Because she didn't, dear colleague Tomljanovic, have any idea what she wanted. She had no idea what she wanted. But it's easy that the government had no idea what it wanted, but it's sad that it changes the structure in those activities involving sensitive groups, children and people with disabilities, with which the minister and the minister are obviously balling. Here, you deal with them, I won't deal with you a little bit. I won't either. Here you go. And so half the term.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51887	Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51888	I'm not defending the opposite position. Now, and I've advocated or defended something else, I don't know when you noticed, so you can check again, make sure I don't defend the opposite position. I'm just saying that this proposal, the current proposal that we have ahead of us absolutely improves normatively and in the system of state administration, does not correct the possibility but agrees with one normative framework to define and implement all this within the framework of social care as defined and implemented by the government in 2006 and in the next term of office. Nothing more and nothing less. What you again and again want to do with your actions is, in a way, to make a play out of it, to declare the government incompetent, incompetent, unprofessional, alluding to that population that this activity refers to as the Government does not care enough about, etc., that is, I repeat your right. It is your right and your style of expression not only in this subject but in any topic. And you must also allow me the possibility that I, not only can I not accept it. For two reasons, firstly because it is not true, therefore, it is not correct and one inappropriate way is one bill and, in that sense, is commented through a parliamentary debate. And you know, fellow Stazic, as far as Austria is concerned, I will answer you. Austria was neither an adviser nor a proponent in terms of the Government's proposal to the Parliament. You know very well who started the talks when and under what conditions and with Austria when, if you are alluding to property and in terms of return to Austrian citizens. And Austria is very close in geographical terms to some parts of Slovenia that we can also discuss about, estranged, paraphrased, etc., etc., in terms of your party's activities, not to say the leaders of your party. You know, in every topic we can discuss in a thousand ways, but I don't accept your offensive and insolent in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51889	Thank you very much. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51890	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has committed to creating all assumptions for the development of services that contribute to strengthening state institutions, which are intended for families, children and various social groups. And for this very reason, the government is delivering a programme for the period 2003 to 2007 based on special attention and concern for the family. So one of the priorities of this government is just to improve the position of women, strengthen the family in society, and especially through demographic growth. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Central Authorities of the State Administration contribute to the institutional strengthening of the authorities of the State Administration, local, regional and self-government and civil society in the implementation of the National Family Policy, the National Programme of Action for Youth and Children, and the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence. In order to achieve the implementation of the programmes, these amendments to the Law shall be subject to the division of the competences of matters from the family-law protection section between the two ministries. Respecting this separation, the reform of the social care system begins. Therefore, in this Bill of Law, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity would carry out professional tasks of prevention and counselling. According to this proposal, the ministry becomes the competent authority for the establishment of professional and supervision of family centres, counselling centres for victims of abuse and other different groups from this section. The Ministry of Health and Social Care would carry out administrative tasks, which relate to the special protection of families in which mutual relations have been violated. Especially among married couples, the protection of children who are not cared for by parents, adoption, the protection of children and young ones, adult patients with behavioral disorders. Finally, I believe that the division of competences under this Act is a guarantee that the system of care for the population concerned will also be effective for the benefit of the general good and I will vote in favour of the adoption of a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51891	Thank you. I am reporting to MPs and MPs that the time has elapsed for a ten-minute hearing on this subject. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51892	The less they talk about children's rights, about the importance of family, and the more they do in favour of children and Croatian families, the better, however, is not noticeable. Our mouths are full of children and families, but we see what is happening here in the Parliament. I would ask only one question to convince me of the correctness of these legal changes, so Mrs. Solic would say why the Ministry of Labour and Social Care was then abolished, why the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care were formed, and do you consider if you are now in favour of these legal changes that it was a mistake that you raised your hand for at the end of 2003, and I do not consider it at all questionable, but for the sake of persuasion, if I can get an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51893	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51894	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Pancic, I will answer your concern in this presentation. Every government remember when they have a right has the right and authority to bring in a structure they think will be the best in it. What bothers you that this is being brought and changed to half your term? I don't think there's a reason. Well, this government is going to get a second term, and I'm sure, and don't laugh, even if you're muddying us as much as you can because you don't have any real facts or arguments about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51895	Honourable representativeplatimir Mršić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51896	Well, you see, Mrs. Solic, you said this was to ensure demographic growth, so let's split up, and I'll now quote what's written in the bill that you're changing, right? So he says, "The ministry is also doing business concerning family care and implementing policy measures, child support." etc. You're changing these two very important responsibilities into the following. He says, "The ministry is concerned about matters relating to marriage and the reduction of divorce, the reduction of abortion, the relationship between parents, children." etc. Therefore, your demographic growth has turned out to be a marriage, a reduction in divorce, and a reduction in abortion, which is your most innovative policy. So you've completely redefined something that was at the beginning and where the ultimate policy can't just be implemented to be conservative and to protect only marriage, and all other measures of the most intelligent policy are ignored and that we're going to go after that only by reducing abortion will result in an increase in the number of children born. So you're completely wrong about something that was quite good for a miracle was defined in the original text of the law, so even in the first place it was defined to be the Family Ministry to take care of the family, not about marriage, but about the family, and to take care of the ultimate policy, not about reducing divorce and banning abortion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51897	Replica response, respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51898	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Mršić, so look again, you have no right to claim in your replica something that is not true. It is our most intelligent policy that has confirmed that in 2005 the number of newborn children was greatly increased, in 2005 it was referred to as "baby boom", which is true, and these are facts that you cannot kill no matter how dissatisfied you are with what the Ministry and Government are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51899	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51900	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I've been in politics for 15 years now, so I know it's not exactly instructions to say what I'm about to say. In view of one such small and slightly irrelevant law that I have rescinded politicians beyond optimism, and not rescribing because unfortunately for this proposal, I have to say that I have been rescinded because it is definitely confirmed once again that an unusually important area for the life of society, any society, has submerged into a comprehensive organisational breakdown. The organisational debate, which can be called the state we have in the field of social policy in Croatia today and the consequence of this situation is still not clearly visible because I would say that things work by momentum, and by intensity they happen and thanks to the responsible work of people who in our services, social care centres, and also in the ministries themselves, one, the other, third, are doing their job on the fourth. I mean, I don't think it even needs to be proved that there wasn't a minister of the family, that there wasn't a health minister to make things work like this, at least, and probably much better. What we have here today I'd like to ask you to put on an amendment so we can see how to fix it. I couldn't answer, nor could I give any excess contribution to improving what is being offered here because it simply has nothing to do with any concept. If we had any concept then we could say this is a bad concept to which we object and that, but from that poor concept, it's consequently done by such an organization, but this is a provision. For 2 years, we have a vision throughout the social policy system, and this is not the wickedness of the opposition representative, there is not a single country in Europe that would do so easily overnight without thinking, without consulting the profession, what we have done in Croatia. All you had to do was look at what they were called the social policy ministries in Europe. You have two or three formulations most often, or they're labour and social policies or the labour ministry and social well-being, right? I don't know how we're gonna... translate and these are countries that have worked for hundreds of years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is in the very name of these ministries, therefore, that what they cover and what they do. And we abolished the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare which, in my opinion, only needed to change the name of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy because that would be much better. Care is only one segment of social welfare policy. And in these organisational extremities it might make sense that Croatian defenders have found themselves because it is also about social policy towards a group... And so the story in that organisational sense would be brought into one superfluous, meaningful order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Throwing out work could have been done. There are examples in the Anglo-Saxon countries that work is isolated from this social policy corpus, but it only impoverishes the meaning and concept of work that comes down exclusively to production, production of values and work is a social relationship. And that's why in many countries, work and social policy stick together. Now watch out. When you do what was done at the very beginning. When it's done and it doesn't explain anything. We can guess motives here. My colleagues have already spoken of the possible reasons? What were the reasons, it was obvious that the ministries were adjusting towards future ministers. If it was a motive and a way to reorganize it, it is a sad state of our responsibility or irresponsibility toward the work that we need to do. I don't know if that's motive. They say that politics really shouldn't talk about motive because it's not a thing, it's a matter of estimating results. The result of what we have now in the system is really what's been proposed here today, which has been changed several times, delayed, and then it happens that by saying the reasoning of this law, it says that carrots will go to one ministry, and the beating to another. Even more amazingly, it says that, for example, parents who need advice, counseling work, and so forth, but who should often and repressively say that if they find themselves in the same system, they are in conflict of interest. Unbelievable. That's an amazing story. So one ministry will be the one dealing with affairs saying: "The Ministry of Defence, intergenerational solidarity will deal with reducing divorce, professional affairs of prevention, counselling, adoption, prevention and so on. He's going to be doing all kinds of work in the world, seductions, agencies, I don't know institutes, not ministries. We last talked about it a month ago here, we also got one proposal from that or those ministries because we no longer know what it comes from and in two years how long the mandate of this government has been, no law has been given that would relate to the measure of things. It was all this kind of talk about changing jurisdiction, what goes into one thing, what goes into another ministry. We haven't seen any concept documents for any area. Not for the disabled, not for the young, not for the women, not for the children, not for the old. There's nothing. The only thing we get from time to time is these reports and these changes in jurisdiction. If the organization is set up, it's a basic alphabet. Then the organization needs something to serve, something to serve. He's in a function of some kind, not his own purpose. And we have no concepts to say that's the point. Maybe she's in some kind of head somewhere. I'm trying to figure out what would be behind a proposal like this? I really don't recognize it. That's why I'm appealing as an advocate in this House convinced that we won't have most of the demands that something like this doesn't get adopted because it's really how we want to adopt it, or we won't adopt it. Let's get a little bit more seriousness to this system. To consult people who know some devil about it. We've started reforming the system, we've created foundations, there are documents, and don't bring the whole story down to the state secretaries of the ministry who have nothing to do with the scale of things explaining something that's by nature things in the vault of one, in one completely different vault and belongs to another area, the area of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51901	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51902	Here is precisely the incorrect fact that the ministries functioned better without current ministers when the current ministers, among other things, received excellence and, in a specific case, the establishment of family centres here in the Split-Dalmatin County area. Also in relation to persons with disabilities, encouraging or setting up counselling. All that is stated in Article 2. Very specific. These amendments also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government and civil society in the implementation of national family policy, the National Programme for Youth Action, the National Programme for Children in the Republic of Croatia, the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2002 to 2006, the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence from 2005 to 2007 and international documents from family, children and youth. These are just one of the sequences. correction of incorrect allegations by colleagues. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51903	Replica, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51904	So I would rephrase to my distinguished colleague Vidovic in the part where he was asking a rhetorical question, perhaps in his debate, he tried to explain to us why the ministry he headed as the former minister had been abolished? Is it possible that segments of these ministries were shared with some people? Mr. Vidovic The government in which you sat is practical tories, it is for legal textbooks an example of how during that time period the Resort ministries were established, even the ministries established to satisfy not the personal principle but even the principle of participation in the government based on election results. And you as a minister, as a member of that government now respect or as one of the basic reasons why you don't go into the profession, without getting into the metrics of things, so you're subsisting, criticising this proposal as maybe it's someone in a sarcastic sense because of some people, individuals, and so on. There is no government other than this one from 2000 to 2003 that did just that. That's exactly what she did. All the time of your existence. And when it was held in power, it was given to the parliamentary majority in such a way. By trading to also resolute ministries and influences in government and power and thus presenting it outwardly. And as a minister, so in four years, you have the right today to possibly say it nicely in your presentation, so maybe that's what it was for. It wasn't about that. It was due to the government's segment of work and social care not for one year but for many years to come up with it in a better way. Is it gonna work or not? Well, thank God, we'll see. Always, especially in this segment should expect better results. You need to work on making your results better. You ex-minister interpret this government in such a way, I think that's also your right. I conclude by saying that this particular government where you've been minister of eclectic example, it will enter the textbooks at law schools as it has been in that negative segment for 4 years. That government worked. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51905	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51906	Well, I wouldn't have gone into controversy with my colleague, Tomljanovic, about the formation of the former government because if it had been for me, and maybe if it had been possible, I believe that the formation of the ministries would have changed. I believe that would happen. So I'm no one here, no appologian of that kind. I said a little bit what I was in my segment that I was running noticed as necessary and what I would change. I think the variant of going to a reduction in the number of ministries was in principle good. But this is about something else. When going into such a concept then there must be a particular concept ahead. In this case, I'm responsible for saying I don't have it because we've never seen it. That's what this is about. The concept must follow this from the government's work programme to which you are calling, you can't see it. I'll just tell you that for three years, the Ministry of Labour and Social Care has carried out a complete examination of its organisational structure and all its affairs according to all the rules of the profession. It was brought to the ministry, it was only to be certified according to the 9001 standards. A huge job has been done. It's a shame what was done wasn't used in the future. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51907	Second replica, Honored Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51908	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to rephrase to my distinguished colleague Vidovic as a double colleague, so as a fellow parliamentary representative and as a sociologist. In fact, I'm thinking more of this second part of my colleague's college. Namely, if this is the solution that you're talking about so badly, why you actually care so much about the coalition government, because if that's a bad solution, it's actually going to give its fruits either bad or good. And it is known, for the fruits of bad or good, when it comes to politics and the government comes sanctions in terms of winning or losing elections. However, it is much more important for me when this debate and many other discussions in this House are how to reduce the broadcasting of excessive amounts of negative energy. Instead of the disruptors we now have here in the Concealing Assembly, I think it would be more useful to install under the seat of those MPs, say the limiters that would limit the transmission of negative energy during some discussions. I think that would be far more useful for colleagues individually, and for all of us here in the Parliament, probably for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51909	The proposal is to install devices to emit and create positive vibrations? Are you answering like a patent? Okay. We will now hear these positive vibrations in response to the replica of MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51910	So I think and I didn't understand why the context of the replica to me was used for this invention around these telettubies, those good vibes or bad vibes, because I hope I'm not broadcasting them either that kind of energy or that kind of message. I'm now saying that I'm genuinely concerned about something that seems to me to be relatively well-known and that it doesn't work very well. And our colleague can't be the only answer voters will evaluate it so he'll punish if he's not okay, if he's okay, he'll back it up. We can't deal with that. In the meantime, children can die as is happening to us these days in the Vinkovci, our system will fall apart. Have you seen the conditions under which our families live? Will the welfare system reach them while we argue about the organization? While we're arguing about who's in charge. That's what they are. People are alive. Let it go, it has nothing to do with the election or politics anymore. The state has to work, it has nothing to do with the parties. That's what I'm trying to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51911	Those devices can't be called the Telettubies, it's something else, you know. Telettubies are four lovely little beings, one has... Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51912	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Indeed, how to seriously discuss this proposal, this inconclusive form, which is being baptised by the motion for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Designation and the part-rounding of the central authorities of the state administration, I pray with the Final Proposal of the Law. And that's what the government is doing, one, two, three, five times. 22.12.2003. The perfect shape was adopted. So Oscar Wilde was... Otherwise known for, as a good lover of taste, structure, to the point, it is his literary work worked out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we praised here and celebrated, I mean most of it. And then there was the repair at the 4th month, one time, and then the repair in the second half of 2004, and now in 2005, he can't wait for a break and we can bring another change. Six times. Six times this structure changes. Half the term of office has expired, and here's the HDZ Club, we have one wise sentence, so what, so we're going to adopt another mandate. Please, be cynical to the citizens like this, send them a bitter irony. The main thing is to create some kind of shush, we'll make it easy with voters, but we'll make it easy, and then four years to say... Rest outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And change something like this, take it, add it like that. And so time passes, and we create an impression of great concern, of course for children, equality of women, all of which is like this and what is imposed as a topic in the media. And that's how this bill is explained. It has nothing to do with the changes being made. In fact, the Ministry of the Family, the defense attorney, and it's hard to remember in two years at all what this is all about. It's hard, you see, and by doing so, you can see only the ministry when it's named, not the structure, because it's not there yet, it's still not formed that divided the family. Please, our sanctity, our family, which we are here to swear, and we will all say for both good and evil, and this power of what the family does. Shares a family. He shares his family through two ministries, the Ministry, as it is called, families, defenders and intergenerational solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which he then has special powers. What this ministry did not like should be addressed by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Please be nice, so how is it that the Ministry of the Family led by the Ministry uses this ministry, please, as some kind of electoral object, as if the government, or some of its members here, is specifically a minister, as if they were in an American college by election cases. Then we'll choose, we'll deal with this a little bit, and I won't, this is already ugly, see here you have children, young adults with behavioral disorders, not let them deal with it please the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Now this is the way to make the structure really unacquainted, not to set foot in the center of social care, nor to pass through the street, because that's where the ranks of people stand, so let's see what this bill is to be passed, which means for users' addressees, most often for people in need, so a woman with her children will, let's say, with one teenager, an even more harmless example, where she will go, the child has a behavioral disorder. Then she will come in, please, she will come to counseling and upstairs will stand a new record, upstairs will stand the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, and there will be counselling, and then they will tell her because here you see that in the circle of these affairs this counseling office would also be about raising children. And then when she says what it's about, if it's not for us, please, please come and go to the Ministry of Health and Social Care and go to that center to see it's their jurisdiction. It's a crowding with people, and not every single thing we say, protecting a family, a beaten-up woman. Where is she going to go? Will he go to counseling or will he, then, go to the Ministry of the Family or will he go to the Ministry of Health and Social Care at this center and it's something terrible and it's something terrifying. People won't really know, so as they didn't know themselves employees from the beginning, who would sign their act whether it belonged to this ministry or to that, they faced it. People did not get certain solutions that might have meant some of their rights to them. It took a full year and more. Now what's going to happen to these users of ours, to our people? Well, who cares? And what my colleague Vidovic said nicely, but alarming things happen at the time. There are deaths in the family. So we see that the Minister of Health also responded to this particular case that happened, that the centre had issued a measure, but the monitoring of the implementation of this measure was completely negligible. There's no responsibility for anyone, and we're dealing with this kind of thing here, so this structure, so it's not a harmless thing or a useless thing, but let's not do it to a useless thing. People won't know where they're going to go, either to say, there's a disturbance in relationships between marriage mates, about child protection, behavioral disorders, or when it comes to people in front of whom they should or should be put under sole custody. So I suggest, it's hard to fix this with no amendment. If it has been so long then it should really be lost for at least another half year for the government to withdraw this proposal and finally decide to give and place all these jobs under the Ministry of Health and Social Care, or under the very counseling which is set up by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity because it is the jobs that I say are happening in the family, and these are all the relationships that are repeated and overlapping and thus, given that we now have this competition of jurisdiction, it will happen that no one will act in the right way, and the consequences will be difficult and too difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51913	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51914	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, ma'am. This government did not bomb people, she bombed the government with people who abolished maternity leave, maternity benefits, child benefit for students, who introduced a shameful commission when establishing the percentage of Croatian defenders' disability. This government was neither bomb nor bomb today nor today bomb like you bombed and built nursing homes in Dubrovnik and Zadar, so ask your government when they started, when they were finished, how the nursing homes in Zadar and Dubrovnik ended. This government, i.e. the Ministry of Health and Social Care, has worked intensively over the past period to reduce the number of home users and increase the number of users who use daily stay services, help and care in the house, care and family, independent housing and other opportunities according to this possibility in which Croatia now, this Croatian government whose mandate will not last four more mandates but 40 mandates.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51915	Ruža Lelic, a respected representative, is the next correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51916	Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has said that this is the form of a ministry shared by a family, our sanctity. The truth is that the family is our sacred foundation and the foundation of our society, but this is not the structure they share. The ministries act on different aspects of one family and they complement each other. According to that logic, many ministries and offices could be abolished because they all act in a way on some aspects of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51917	Thank you. And a respected representative, Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51918	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will indeed try without political qualifications to rationally look at the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Design and the Part-Corruption of the Central State Authorities of the Administration, let's take the turn. The fact is that this government is half-term, it's not a dispute between us. It is also a fact that for the sixth time this government proposes the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Organisation and Part-Corruption of the Authority of the State Administration. Sixth time. What does that mean from those two facts? That the government is half-term looking for a concept to organise the central authorities of the state administration. Half-term. And what's the suggestion? Is he in line with the principles on which the state administration is based? One of the important principles is the stability of the organisation of the state administration. What stability is this in the Republic of Croatia when, in half of the term of office, the government has six times changed the detour and organisation and jurisdiction of the central authorities of the state administration. We can't talk about any stability, rule number one. Secondly, is it economical six times to reorganize the state administration? It's not. ... We can, of course we can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But at whose expense, whose burden? We can, of course. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sure you know that. ... It's good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What is another important principle in the organization of state administration? The grouping of administrative areas. The grouping of administrative areas so that citizens do not have to wander from one administrative body to another, from one ministry to another ministry. Such a frequent change in the area of competence and the organisation of central administrative bodies is confusing and can only wander from one ministry to another, and my colleagues have already talked about the grouping of administrative areas. Here, I'll just give you a hint. Indeed, the proposal for amendments and additions provides for in paragraph 2, paragraph 2 is added: In the section of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the ministry is performing administrative tasks and is now erasing "other jobs" relating to the special protection of the family. It erases "other jobs". There are no other jobs, no groupings in the ministry, and here they say the family is sacred. Family is a administrative activity, family is in this case administrative activity and citizens, family members must now go to two state administration bodies to solve the same problem. Same problem. When the Ministry of Family, Defence and what is already called from a professional point of view, it sends it to the Ministry of Health to resolve it according to administrative procedure, administrative jurisdiction. So is that a good organization? Is this a grouping based on the principles of how grouping is done in the administration? Imagine which are called as a sanctuary, the ministry of Article 16 I mean, it is the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, etc., performing professional consulting and prevention activities relating to, and now there is no family but as regards marriage, so it is divided into several segments and about the state administration, we have the state administration, which is the Ministry that I have just said, to provide preventive therapeutic assistance. The State Administration, which has a preventive treatment aid in its area and in its jurisdiction, and when it provides assistance to family members, must go to the Ministry of Health and exercise its law provided for by administrative procedure. It's from this proposal like that. In the end, indeed, the government promised when it took over the mandate, that the state administration would be more modern, less effective. Now the question is whether it can be more modern when the organization and the detour change six times, is it more effective when the organization is changed six times, the workers move from one ministry to another. And if it's cheaper for us, I mean it when we determine financial resources through the budget, but the worst one is much more expensive for citizens who have to exercise their right in the state administration. They wander because every month, the detour and the organisation of the state administration changes almost every month. This is not a good ally for the reforms that await us in the state administration, especially when we are working on the competitive capacity of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. That's absolutely not a good ally. There is another interesting fact message from the government when it first proposed the organisation of the central authorities of the state administration, that it had singled out in a special administrative body to the state administration at the head of the colleague Mr. Palaric. That's what the government was saying, I, as a government outside the ministries, so the Prime Minister, will take special care of the state administration. He'll take special care because we don't actually have a minister at the head of the state administration. We don't have a minister. So the government has made an emphasis there, and the consequences are that six times the organisation of the central state bodies of the administration is changing. If it's from the prime minister, then it's really political gaff. If this is from the director of his colleague Palaric, then he should really tell us what led him to change the organisation and the part-round for the sixth time. This cannot be justified by efficiency. It cannot be justified by efficiency simply the same administrative area has divided into two ministries. The two ministries will have the same management area as experts, one will conduct administrative procedures, and the other will professionally address family problems, etc. This is a bad message for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially a bad message that we will not be able to raise the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia against the need to join the European Union. Of course you can't support a bill like this at all, because it certainly isn't designed just because one of these administrative areas is shared, splits into two administrative bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51919	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51920	A respected colleague said that twice the family is an administrative activity. And for the record, and for everything else, I think this really needs to be fixed as an incorrect quote. Family and within the meaning of this Law and a whole series of other laws are absolutely no activity whatsoever.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51921	And final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51922	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A constant concern about the state administration's reform was seen by the government's drafts and even before the government was appointed. And this government had the first power to drastically reduce the number of ministries in line with the recommendations of foreign experts involved in working groups and even former governments. When we came up with the concept of the new government, we took care of all the important opinions of domestic experts and foreign experts and scientists. And had the strength to reduce the number of ministries, to strengthen the role of the Prime Minister by establishing central state offices, including the Central State Administration Office, and thus to resolve an objection by international experts that has also been crystallised through the CARDS 2001, which is that a special body should be established to deal with the state administration because in the Ministry of Justice, Administration and the local self-government segment of the administration has been neglected. The fact that the law has changed and that this shows instability, the government's irresponsibility is wrong. This government was formed with 14 ministries, the duration of the mandate was reduced and now there are 13 ministries, but we have established the institutions that were needed in this country, which were not there. For example, the Department of Protection and Rescue, for example the Department of Nuclear Security. Furthermore, given that this Law had legal fate as a Law on the Construction and Circumstance of Ministrys and State Administrations, and that amendments to the Government Act were established by central state administrations, by developing these state offices as bodies of the central government, we felt that it would be necessary, useful and necessary to establish in one place the jurisdiction of all central authorities of the state administration, and therefore one amendment was aimed at introducing a system and central state administration offices. The development of society in its adaptation, in adapting to European Union standards requires and organisational changes in the field of social care, we know that a significant part of the competences of the department of the state administration, in line with European standards, is transferred to the jurisdiction of courts and, in accordance with all of this, the Government believes that this defined work of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care will preserve stability because administrative procedures will continue to be carried out where they have been so far, and that the strong Family Ministry will be able to act preventively to remove negative phenomena that may occur in the fields of family and youth protection. We certainly do not reject all the allegations that the government does not know what it is doing, that there is no strategy for the development of society, especially the strategy for the development of state administration. We know what we are doing, we have managed to pass the Law on civil servants in accordance with European standards, we are implementing projects... And one of them is a functional audit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the strength of foreign and domestic experts and sent to every ministry to review its organisational structure. So far, we have carried out a review in several ministries and in several offices of the state administration in the counties we are speeding it up and we will adapt Croatia's organisation of state administration to European principles and European models in order to be fully compatible with the countries with which we want to share a common destiny in the European Union. Given everything I've said, we suggest that the Parliament adopt the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51923	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51924	Here are three sentences. Mr. Secretary of State has said and I am correcting this, with the establishment of the State Administration, the Government has managed all the important opinions of domestic and foreign experts. Unfortunately, it is not true because if it had been the structure of these ministries, it would not have changed here now not for the sixth time, but for the fifth time, that decision was first made, and then five times it changed, and I believe that it was largely purely political volunteerism or those important opinions of domestic and foreign experts come individually every 4.5 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51925	I'm closing the debate. I'll interrupt the session by 9:30 tomorrow. Proposal for a Law definitively amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, on electronic correction, ownership, amendments and additions to the Law on Property and other real rights, the Statute of the National Centre for External Evaluation, the Law on Public Collection, etc. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Central Authorities of the State Administration. This Law also requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Mr. Secretary of State Amendment to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51927	The government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-07-0.u51928	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The law got 74 votes, one abstention, 29 against. He didn't get a qualified majority. And so the law wasn't passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On the occasion of the information the chief Hague war crimes prosecutor in The Hague informed the Republic of Croatia that Ante Gotovina had been arrested in the territory of Spain in consultation with the Prime Minister I asked him to contact the Croatian Parliament and give the full information he owns on this case. Here you go, Mr. President.
