ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31202	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the establishment of an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the launch of an international competition for the third mobile operator in Croatia. At the same time, we know that the day before yesterday, the telecommunications agency already signed a contract for the Croatian Swedish consortium The Third Happiness and TLT respectively. In favour of the Croatian budget, TLT already paid 26m euros on the date of signature, i.e. 172m kuna for concession and 26m kuna as a fee for using the frequency. It would be logical to discuss the investigative commission that the agency has awarded concessions to an operator which is not essentially able to pay the total amount of the concession, i.e. to carry out this very demanding Green Field investment. I believe that this contract signed by the agency has finally created a quality precondition for further deregulation of the mobile telecommunications market, which should ultimately lead to a reduction in prices and an increase in service quality. I also believe that the new contract is a prerequisite for the completion of the media telecom strips that we have witnessed all these days. And ending the need to establish recently very popular investigative committees. It is known in the words of a well-known economist, Peter Dracker, that those who want to control everything in principle control nothing. But let's briefly remind ourselves that this concession contract was issued on July 22nd. It was announced by the former Telecommunications Council, and after the extension of the deadline for submission of bids, only the Croatian Swedish consortium Third Happiness appeared under the leadership of the Swedish company TLT. Croatia's mobile phone reportedly was delayed in the contest due to traffic in the city and Međ telecom due to plane failure or alleged flight delays. And by then, the public speculated on problems with bank guarantees, as well as the bitter public echoed when the Agency's Council rejected the only legitimate offer on October 18th, with an explanation of the lack of national economy's contribution. And that is true, gentlemen, because then the Telet, or Third Happiness, did not give the tender documentation for UMTS technology and thus would deny the state budget for 70 million kuna that we must admit is not a small amount. After a complaint was sent to the Agency and to the competent ministry and to the Administrative Court, the Agency re-scheduled the tender. And then he comes back next to the Teleta, this time and the Intertelecom and Croatia phone that arrived on time this time but only Teleteta had a valid bank guarantee. And the agencies eventually to the part of the Teleta concession consortium, but this time GMS/DCS technology and with a very clear programme of employment from a thousand employees by the end of 2007 with ambitions and interests on a fixed network and with a clear plan to open a coreist centre, a col centre in Vukovar. Of course, Telekom and Croatia have already filed a complaint on the grounds that the Council members were pressured and that the Council should have asked for a subsequent delivery of a valid guarantee. Based on these party proposals in the process of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development under the Law on Telecommunications and Article 20. The Law on the State Administration System began on January 5th with administrative supervision. In fact, it is possible to verify the quality of the Telecommunications Agency's quality in the mandate of the ministry. The administrative supervision then covered the very fundamental legality of work and conduct, the settlement in administrative matters, the effectiveness, the economy and the purpose of the work in the performance of the public administration’s affairs, the purpose of the internal structure and the training of officials and subsistence officers to carry out the State administration’s affairs, and after reviewing the tenders received and the records from the public tender in both cases, the Ministry found that there were no elements for repealing or repealing the subject-matter of the decisions of the Council of the Agency. The lawyers would say it wasn't a broken material law. As already said here and today, Telekom was then partnered with the State firm IME, HEP and Končar in this tender documentation. I believe they had financial power for a project like this, but apparently there's not enough knowledge in their portfolios to carry out this kind of investment. In addition to the offer, he placed a copy of the letter of intent of Di Roma, which was shown to have been forged and later delivered the bank guarantee of Probank Athens. Therefore, two different banks that significantly change and beyond the legal deadline of the tender, which is contrary to the set deadline set in the Decision on tendering. And otherwise, all participants in the public tender could change and supplement the tender documentation. I believe that, with great public interest and great media speculation, the line has been confirmed after the controversy over the first and second round of competitions and completely eliminated doubts about the regularity of competitions for the selection of the third mobile operator. In this way it will be possible for the new mobile concessionary Telet, or Third, to allow the unburdened start of the GRINFIL investment. However, we have a question as to whether the concession could have been called before. The answer is very clear, yes, it could have been called in September 2003, so a year and a half ago when the agreed obligations of the Republic of Croatia to VIPNET as the second GMS operator were fulfilled. Why it was actually waiting is hard to say now. It could be said that the tension of the relations between the former Council, the former Institute, the Government, or the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and the links that were eventually escalated with the DIVAN affair and the cancellation of competitions for another fixed operator was recognised. The government then, remember, banned itself from opening a tender for a third operator without the approval of the state summit, and today the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the new concessionary of the fixed network. Very often, I doubt it, but I personally believe that if his contract with the government or the state did not prescribe that he should not be president of the board of directors in companies that deal with similar activities, I do not see anything wrong with it, although quality people are always at the top of major projects. But I certainly believe that it's not too late today, because if it were too late, there wouldn't be as much pressure as they were, there wouldn't be lobbying on the Council, on the rest of the state officials during both competition rounds. The answer is simple. The mobile telecommunications market will grow strongly from the current penetration 53% to 80% by the end of 2009. In those years, 80 per 100 inhabitants should have a mobile machine. And with an assumed discount which the new concessionary will introduce of 22% and of the necessary investments of around billions of kuna in the first two or three years to cover the quality of the Republic of Croatia's return analysis of the funds says that all the funds invested will be returned in the first 6 years, and that by the end of 2014, therefore in the first less than 10 years of concession, the real value of the profit or net present value will be a billion and 215 million kuna. So it's certainly the main and only great reason for all the pressures and great ambitions to be able and less able to get this project. And with the administrative supervision carried out, which has proved that there are no elements for the cancellation of the HDZ tender cannot support the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative commission. Due to the same laws of the market, which are called investor interests or profits or shares to expect a lush development and situation and... fixed telecommunications network markets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the failed attempt by Divan, today's government, that is, the agency has appointed two new concessionaries, Optimatelecom and Portos d.o.o. from Split, which is certainly good for deregulation of the Croatian telecom market. Namely, the law prescribes access to local loops and the obligation to contract between new operators and Croatian telecoms and in accordance with the conditions agreed with the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. The legal deadline for preparations was the end of last year, but the situation today on the ground is significantly different. It is very common that piracy is present, i.e. the kidnapping of cable unauthorized infrastructure, i.e. the intrusion into the cable sewerage of the Croatian Telecom, and I believe from this moment on that there are no significant shifts. And on Monday, I had the opportunity to read in the "New List" that an article entitled "A continued war for underground cables" was published, which describes the unauthorized use of Croatian Telecom underground installations by concessionaries, a river concessionary of HTV. Croatian telecom built distribution and telecommunication... and owns it in the balance sheet as a basic asset. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is indisputable that HT is the owner and that other operators under the law can benefit from free capacity with compensation. On the other hand, the concessionary of this same cable television claims that, with a concession, he was actually granted permission to use underground infrastructure owned by the state. I have not noticed that this has been responded by the Agency for Telecommunications, although the authorisation description states that it is responsible for resolving disputes, courts and lawyers will receive new cases and could result in new affairs. And in the world of modern democracy, everything seems simply to be respected by a sacred right called property. That is why I propose that our energy knowledge of the work of the agency, the resolution ministries, and above all I think of the Ministry of Justice and Civil Engineering, actually directs this energy to address future legislation in the liberalisation of the telecommunications market, rather than the establishment of commissions when it is too late. Let this actually be our contribution to better quality telecommunications services, lower prices that voters and citizens and businessmen expect from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31203	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the debate will take part and give an explanation to the respected representative Radimir Cacic. Just one note. In Article 211, the proposer, or representatives of the motionors designated by him, may speak in the opening statement at the beginning of the debate for a maximum period of 30 minutes, in the presentation at the end of the debate for 30 minutes, and at each time an explanation is given during the debate for a maximum period of 10 minutes. Since you haven't been on, the opening hearing is open, you can now use an explanation for a maximum of 10 minutes and also appear during the debate and you have 30 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, this has been a valuable guideline to me, and I will use the opportunities given by the Rules of Procedure. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I am here, of course, as one of the proposings, and I must say that I am also president of the Assembly Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations, to a considerable extent, involved and familiar with the details of this affair. It's amazing to me, at least, that I've only been here 15 years in Croatian politics, and I've never heard or heard of a country in a year that has concentrated so many huge affairs, and I'd say it's confirmed and revealed as it is in this beautiful little country of ours. The last of them, I'd say, may be the hardest, worst, most dangerous, and most of all, is how the government in this country works. I have to say the same thing, it's the biggest money. Just to get a rough picture of what I'm talking about, mobile operators in Croatia right now have the total income of that duopol that has formed, half-half of it is shared by 800m euros, and their operating profit is 360m euros, a million euros a day. You don't make that on drugs either. A million dollars a day, cost nothing, what we send over the air. Once the network is set up, costs no longer exist. Of course, it was a tremendous effort that seemed and seemed not from today, for years, to not touch that source of gold. Here some contracts are being opened these days, and there's likely to be more than that from the last government and from this government, and what's scariest and crosses even what we knew, we were suggesting but we didn't know when we asked for this commission is a scandal that shows that with one criminal mile that's been confirmed and exposed not by the opposition, not by our police, but by one of the world's most respected banks, the Bank of Di Roma has been discovered that the company or so on. The company of a certain Bruno Marquisian in connection with the three strongest Croatian state-owned companies Ina, HEP, Končar falsifies documents, tries to deceive Croatian citizens and rob them further. There's an old joke about Muja, bananas, knife and Hasi that's been stabbed three times... Six? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But here three times. He's not here six, three times. They ask Moya, so why did you stab Hasa? I didn't stab him, he slipped on a banana and three times like that. Every time again on the banana and on the knife and on the banana and on the knife. I understand that a certain Marquis was corrupt by Ina's director, no doubt, he paid big money, and this one went into crime. I understand Concar too. There's two of them. But how's three? It's not that much. Is it possible that someone ordered it from the government? ... Listen, if you ask me, I think someone ordered it from the government, I don't know what the public is going to say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What will show the investigative commission that you will undoubtedly approve in the interest of Croatia. I'd say a certain young man from the cabinet with a certain father who runs this criminal group's affairs was a bond that all the data is about. He'll be on the investigation committee, if he doesn't, he'll be without an investigative commission. That he organized an order to Ini, HEP and Concaru go with a criminal. It's a big deal. It'll be for everyone. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, that's what this is all about, naked crime. And who has the nerve to say, who has the courage to say that the Croatian public does not deserve to be questioned, especially today when it is already quite public and completely clear. Farse guy, we're late for the plane, watch out for a couple of million-euro jobs late for the plane, or we're not there. Ten minutes too late. Listen, it could've been sold and it worked out for a while. Not anymore. Definitely not now. After having been re-committed and a team of regulators unanimously told who to give the network, then the government is making a move through its ministry. The 12th month is due 20 days for the 12th so-called so-called. the technical review of the documentation to be entrusted to the selected operator with the transactions. Then comes a memo from the ministry asking the regulator directly for illegal treatment, a written illegal act, in which the regulator is asked to stop the technical review because a new rule comes into force which is a kind of catchtowy two which is about to read like this. A technical review can then be carried out, documentation, when the company requesting permission has already made an investment, and the company has to have a permit to realise the investment. It's a famous catch touchy two isn't it some new invention of the ministry and HDZ. It's been practice for a while now. In fear of this happening, this disclosure, these five inform some people regardless of the threats, the five are still doing a technical examination to get that rule the day after which the crime was intended to take place. 12th review, 13. One beautiful symbolic date, rule. So, crampingly, until the last second, he's trying to make this mob work real. Until the last second. Only when Banco di Roma exposes counterfeits, only then does the government withdraw, only then does the government withdraw and give consent to Tele 2 and interrupts administrative supervision, in terms of everything is fine. Hoping, there's a candle on the stone door to the tones, if there's any religious ones, it won't be revealed. Gentlemen, a little something in this country will remain hidden. Some of them can sign off on investigative committees, they can't give away, they'll form. If not today, tomorrow. If these 12 votes, 14 votes by HNS and Libre today are not enough, there'll be a lot more tomorrow, that'll be enough, we'll question everything I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31205	Thank you. HSP club, excuse HSS, respected representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31206	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Already, the predecessor on behalf of the promoter on the establishment of this Research Commission spoke about the strength, financial strength of Telekom sector and telecommunications services that have reached a very high level and certainly that the honey that is licked from the sector is very sweet. No wonder that it is proposed to set up an investigative committee although I am not fully convinced myself, and especially knowing that we come with a proposal from the opposition benches that it will see the light of day. But by the way, I don't think commissions are the best way we've said it in the previous point to reveal the full truth. Because we all know when you want to end something, you need to start a commission. But we still have to hope that the commission will still be because there are three on today's agenda that there will be more. I am convinced that the HSS Club will offer a commission to investigate the award of concession radio station Metkovic in which, in justice, God took away a concession from an existing concessionaire who has been a regular 14-year-old and has been assigned to a new concessionaire who has no office, no space, no equipment, no human resources. Is that a reckoning or did it give concessions the right way? And it is likely that one investigative committee will have to take care of that. Here's just a superficial view of everything that's been going on. It can actually create doubt that there have been very strange shops. An invitation to tender shall be opened in July of the month when the bids arrived on 14 September and the new Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency shall be elected within 10 days without any documents, statutes and anything else so important a decision shall be taken. Sufficient enough to be able to talk about it, it must actually be very serious. But at the very beginning, I will point out one more time that I would be able to pollute with Mr. Minister, Bozidar Calmet, whom some in a joke is called the Minister of the Sea, Heaven and Earth. Who's attacking the last government that she was late with a review of competitions for a new operator, which is only partially correct. The fact is that the previous government managed to change the concession contract with HT signed by the former government, the HDZ government in 1998. But it should also be said that the same government signed a concession agreement with another operator, also in 98th year where it committed itself not to call a tender for the third operator before 31.10.2003 for 1800 MHz and 30.5.2005 for 900 MHz in the GSM network. The government of the Republic of Croatia in the past term in which we have been participating, has created a legal framework so that after 31.10.2003, competitions for the new operator can be discussed. Although we had a regulatory body, the Telecommunications Council, which in the 7th month 2004 opened a tender for the third GSM operator, is indicative that this Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed new people in the course of the tender and formed a new regulatory body, the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, which should have made such a significant decision in just 10 days of its existence, so important for the overall development of the telecommunications market of the Republic of Croatia although the Agency was formally entitled to continue to realise this competition. The fact is that the Agency was practically just formed as a legal person, without statutes, and yet carried out this tender until the end of which we all know well. The concession wasn't assigned to anyone. The main favorite is reportedly too late to submit his offer and how we learn from the media, due to the delay in the plane. And the latest events and scandals that we can read about in this week's paper show in fact that all this time we've actually only had one serious bidder. The Minister should also be asked here what it means when only one operator is written a rule that comes out in an extraordinary number of National Journals. Is this a contribution to the development of the telecommunications market or is it really about obstructing the entry of new operators into this super profitable market? Does this mean that the September 2004 decision on the first competition was the result of the independent work of the Agency or these events that fill black chronicles, if they have the consequence of an international scandal about falsifying the bank guarantee at 22m euros, involving large state-owned companies, HEP, Končar, INA or we have the right to suspect that someone, perhaps from the top, at least gave a hint that they should go to a partnership with a company that no one has heard of on the telecommunications market in Europe and the world? Will someone answer for the violation of the domestic and international reputation of these companies? Will their leaders take responsibility and offer resignations, or will they at least publicly state who convinced them to enter into a business relationship with a troubled company? And an investigation by the Italian police will show whether or not it's troublesome persons. Only thanks to online circumstances has an international scandal with inconceivable consequences been avoided. That's why the events around the 1st and 2nd competitions were supposed to, these events need to be enlightened, this can't all be kept quiet. Someone has to take responsibility. And now that it's all over, this debate on the investigative commission may be losing its true meaning because after signing the contract with the Croatian-World consortium, 200 million kuna should come to the State budget, and the consortium announces even at least 20% of the lower price, which is very important. Because I think the public's interest is, above all, a lower price of impulse. I hope by entering the 3rd operator that price will be even more accessible and decent. But he also announces more than a billion kunas, which is certainly not to be underestimated. And at the beginning of the table, and later on 200, 300 or 500 employees. The Minister should again be told what kind of business policy move it is before signing the contract to announce a tender for the fourth operator with significantly lower and lower concession prices. If the interest in this market is so high, then why not raise the concession? Then why don't you raise the price? And by doing that, you're making more money into the state budget. Still, I think it's something else. And that is why the HSS Club will support the decision to set up the Research Commission, because it seems to us that there have been too many unknowns in this competition, too many illegal actions that hopefully the commission will manage to shed light on, and we hope that the arrival of a third operator will primarily benefit from a lower impulse, a lower price of impulse, which is the main objective of introducing new operators into the market for telecommunications market in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31207	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let's do something that no one has ever done during the work of this high home in history, and let's build up this wide adway that we're entering both wide corridors and this big assembly and turn this high house into an investigative center. Let us turn it from where the elected representatives of the Croatian citizens say, all of us who are the MPs in a place where each of us will have a little investigative experience, will not be this enlightened, because obviously we all have little or no doubt that we are working in the dark, but each of us will have just one table lamp and one chair, because as it has started, it may be after asking a few commissions to have each of us on some investigative committee, that each of us may be investigating a neighbor next to himself on the left or right, or that each of us will be investigating several representatives, so we will all be investigators. Then we won't need a councilwoman, we'll have enough of our little investigative reports, and we'll probably feel big then we'll probably feel up to our own tasks. But unfortunately, then we will probably realize that we have long ceased to be what the citizens expect us to be and why they eventually chose us. So, if we were no longer citizens' representatives, but basically let's be honest, put our hands on our hearts, and let's face it, we become representatives of ourselves. The political elite began to deal with itself. We deal with each other here in Parliament. We here take prerogatives, i.e. in some way, out of jurisdiction to all other state institutions, and especially to judicial institutions. We're playing investigators here, given to investigators, and we're actually making ladies and gentlemen out of this high house one totalitarian society, one totalitarian centre where practically everyone will decide about anyone without any mechanism, without any real authority, I would say without any real need. We, in principle, didn't want to talk about the first subject of HSLS because we think that's enough. The citizens have chosen us to explore the ways in which we're going to start this society. The citizens didn't choose us to explore each other. Citizens are therefore paying us, as well as the police, the Ministry of the Interior, criminals, the State's Attorney's Office, courts and all other institutions that exist everywhere in the world and that are engaged everywhere in both MPs and ordinary citizens. Double powers, competencies, even jobs means actually to run away from your responsibilities as a primary responsibility, but our primary responsibility is to forget it, then I would like to say that to represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are not representatives of ourselves, of our political parties, or of our political ideologies, and we must not use the Investigative Commission to be in any way in the service of our party or our ideology. Unfortunately, that's what's happening. And I repeat again for principled reasons, I don't want to be a part of it. When it comes to the subject that we are now talking about, the Commission of Investigation that needs to shed light on the facts relating to the award of the concession, then there is a way to say the freer need for such a commission, rather than for the commission that will be questioned here by our parliamentary representatives or members of the Government or anyone else. However, I must tell the promoters that at that time we must be completely open and examine the facts not only of one party or several applicants, but also of the sale of Croatian Telecom, then we must ask the question of the former government, then we must ask the question not only of mobile operator, but of the sale of Croatian Telecom, then actually, ladies and gentlemen have to go back even far into the past and ask the question, what has Croatia ever done with its entire telecommunications sector, and not only that perhaps, but what has Croatia ever done with selling its national wealth? That's what the citizens of this country are interested in. What we are discussing today is the award of a concession for a mobile operator that is only the tip of the icy one, I would say a truly terrible iceberg that tightens the heart of every Croatian citizen, because it is indeed obvious that we have sold our telecommunications, that unfortunately we have sold our national wealth almost for the bad, that we have poored our own citizens, so that unfortunately today, even today, when we are discussing in this way we can say in the context of this divided Parliament we continue to try and keep our eyes on these citizens and we will not admit that there have been any mistakes before and that unfortunately there are still mistakes. If it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that a third operator will lower prices and lower them and only 20% as announced, then the former government, and this government must also tell citizens why they can't use a cheaper network for two years. That's what our citizens are interested in. They don't care if it's Sanader and Tomcic or Cacic and Zuzul, or Chehok and someone else. It's completely irrelevant to them. They want to know why they can't use a lower phone price, mainly because we all know that we pay prices and what we haven't spent here and that there are also fixed costs and tariffs that God pays for. In any case, impoverished citizens, the pauperised regiment has been paying for two years and we could have called a higher-price payment tender two years ago. We didn't get the competition, we're having fun here with whether we're going to explore it one way or another, whether the commission is going to be one or the other instead of telling the citizens of this country all together, and the government, too, before you've sold telecommunications in such a way, why our citizens have terribly high telephony prices, why do our young people have the price of the Internet that's higher than elsewhere? Why couldn't we publish the contracts the Croatian state made with Deutsche Telekom? So what kind of state is it that sells its national wealth and still won't tell its citizens under what conditions it sold them? And instead of all of us telling our citizens together, we're fighting now whether one of us will catch each other with his hand here or he'll catch this guy with his hand in his other pocket. That is why we are dealing with ladies and gentlemen ourselves because unfortunately we are not up to the needs of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31209	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31210	counterpart Chehok said that forming investigative committees is not in the citizens' interest. That's not true. The formation of investigative committees is, in any case, in the interest of citizens because the formation of investigative committees is law enforcement and law enforcement is in any case the interest of citizens is by the very fact that this House passed that law. And the truth that this investigative commission should bring is also in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31211	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31212	Mr. Chairman, breach of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kapraljevic did not correct my claim because I did not say that it was not in the citizens' interest but that it was in the interest of citizens to shed light on all other facts. Therefore, he did not correct my claim but commented.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31213	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It is Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic's turn on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31214	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I'm really sorry there's no one here today from the government, first of all for the part that Mr. Honorable Representative Cacic spoke of the INA, HEP and Končar's involvement. At least it should be Minister Kalmeta or Minister Mlinaric that we here in this assembly hear the information immediately whether it's true and the media are saying it's true. If it's true, it's a shame that in such a scandal of counterfeiting bank guarantees, guarantees are involved by administrations, so state-owned companies INA, HEP and Končar. It's really embarrassing, and then I can't accept this demagogue speech by Mr. Chehok that we don't need investigative committees, that we don't need this, we don't need that. Well, just because the bodies of the government don't work. When I say the bodies of the state government, I mean the executive power. I mean the State's Attorney's office, I mean the power of justice. Tell me, Mr. Chehok, what case of corruption has the state revealed to the end, that sanctioned it. See, that's what our voters are looking for. I don't know about yours, but our voters are looking for it, Croatian voters and Croatian citizens are asking for it to be finally established and we will figure out how to take action in the state if we go to capitals. Well, you see, right on the capitals. Now we have a situation again if this is true and the media have passed on so what does the government do, what does the State's Attorney's Office and I have cases, let's say the INA's administration is thirty illegal layoffs in 2000 to Croatian defenders, illegal layoffs. They got, some got first degree so they complained, some got second degree. He doesn't execute court decisions. And now, on the other hand, that administration of the INA according to what Mr. Cacic said, and he knows it well because he also knows Director Dragicevic participated in a job like this. And then I listen to how I shouldn't be pointed out. Well, we have to point. So with the investigation committees let's at least do something to encourage the regular authorities to do their job. So I'm thinking about the state administration, I'm thinking about the government, I'm thinking about the State's Attorney's office and I'm thinking about the judiciary. So that's why we're here in the Croatian Parliament, which is why the Croatian people chose us to indicate that we are running those things to establish a legal state. Not establishing a rule of law on what some of them wanted to do with corruption and privatisation, so they got something that they didn't even have kunas and so they bought a company and got a loan from the bank and the mortgage was that company, and now they're benefactors. Well, that people can't watch or we can't watch. So we expect, and that is why we always are when any question is raised to determine the full truth, but not to put it under the rug all the time. Because if we continue to put under the rug one affair comes and normally Croatian citizens because they do not have the support of Croatian MPs either if we do not move this feeling helpless in the fight against corruption. You saw those Croatian defenders, there was a show yesterday. Many say, "It's not the state we fought for." But they're glad and proud of the qualities they have. And these same defenders, say, in the INA, get fired illegally, and that doesn't concern anyone. The defense attorneys are only talked about when this case happens, which unfortunately happened that the defendant committed suicide. But we need to talk about all these things. They want Croatian defenders, Croatian pensioners, Croatian farmers, the unemployed establishment of the rule of law, the fight against corruption, and ask for results from us. So let's go from word to deed, discover, help regular bodies, we have to blow them by the neck, Mr. Chehok, blow on the neck. When these bodies start doing their part of the job, then we throw ourselves at this part of the job around the European Union but as a euro of realists and not a euro of skeptics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31216	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the House of Representatives! So I agree, like all my predecessors, that this commission should be supported because in one word we have the right to doubt whether there was a moment here to launder that black money it should be clearly established by some institution but that there is, in the light of international speculative capital, most likely to be related to the same one in the Republic of Croatia and mentioned by Hrvoje Petrac, who is currently on the official road in that there is no doubt. Here there is an international dispute between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy, which is obviously the naivety of our biggest companies, which I, I want to believe, is that they have been led astray too, because what is happening to these Croatian institutions is the great damage to the political reputation of the Republic of Croatia by Wednesday. I agree with Mr. Chehok when he says that it will most likely end in the end with the involvement of the state's attorney's office, that's how it should be. Chehok is even right when he says that this House can't turn into a totalitarian centre that would simply, that's where one group of MPs would deal with the other, I want to believe that in the end everything as Luka Rajic said would end and lower phone prices. But one more thing. In the opening of bids for a third mobile operator, the Telecommunication Agency Council found that the company's offer... The telecoms do not contain a bank guarantee as spoke by Mr. Cacic, who was requested in the decision to open the tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of banking, these guarantees we received a scanned letter of intent from the bank, a subsequent verification found that the document was not authentic either. That's what the President of the Telecommunications Council, Gaspar Gachina, said after his discovery that he... Telekom attached a false banking guarantee to the Italian bank... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] at an amount of as much as 172 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bank... in a letter to the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia in Rome, it stated that on 30 November 2004 it gave no guarantee... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The telecom has announced that it will report the case to the Italian judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He, quotes, "We will report the case to the Italian judicial authorities and press charges." The Bank said in a statement... The letter argues that there are no employees in any branch of that bank with names Shaftinger or Schmidt and that these documents in their possession should be considered false. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole case at Assistant Minister of Telecommunications Davor Dvornik's initiative will examine them as we have information and a competent ministry. It's off the record that it was an attempt to launder black money and that Match Telecom had been transferred from the beginning to different interests. At the opening of the offers in early December 2004, the director and founder of this Match Telecom Bruno Markizio said it was a new company founded in Croatia and that the Croatian French partners were behind it and from Croatian companies then mentioned Končar, HEP, or INU. The public also speculated for months that there was actually this Mr. Hrvoje Petrac, who was currently on the official road, behind the offer of Match Telecom. The media also speculated that behind Match Telecom, a Monaco telecom operator, however, the formal director and founder of Match Telecom Bruno Markizio said only that it was a Swiss holding company whose investors, he clearly did not want to discover. Monaco Telekom took over from 55% of the ownership stake in early June 2004 a British company and earlier the Monegay company had concessions for mobile telephony in Afghanistan and Kosovo. Behind their earlier attempt to enter the Croatian market, again I am talking about what the media have been guessing was the controversial entrepreneur Mr. Hrvoje Petrac. This Match, this telecom, has twice tried to reach concessions for a mobile operator. For the first time, the attempt failed because of the delay in landing this plane in Zagreb, which is why the delegation was late to hand over the documentation, and I agree entirely with Mr. Cacic, when you contract a job of hundreds of millions of kuna, it doesn't matter, the euro, that it comes as a rule a day early to give up the offer rather than the last moment. Then it was delivered, that's the second time they fell for it, on that banana, a forged letter of intent that the telecommunications agency didn't want to admit, but the devil didn't give them peace, they just kept going, until the job under quotes was "almost won". I quote now: "Croatian Telecommunications Agency" this tender for the award of a concession in the mobile network has been legally implemented and no irregularities or violations of the law have been found." As the concession was known, the Swedish operator Tele 2 was awarded on 22 December 2004. The other two bids did not enter the procedure, the evaluations precisely because they did not have valid bank guarantees. These companies requested administrative oversight of the agency's work. Following the supervision completed in the second half of January, it was established that these two companies did not have a valid bank guarantee attached to the amount of the concession, which was a clear condition and the tender itself. Both companies had previously claimed that this was not true, however, it was the essence of this Match Telecom that received a concession for the third mobile operator of the state would probably have run out of 180 million kuna as much as the concession fee. All of this clearly points to the need to try and animate through such a form of investigative committees the bodies of the state authorities who, in the end, I believe that this debate will also be a small contribution to the cost of telephoning. Clearly, there should be representative capital in Croatia, the third, fourth operator to address the issue of monopoly in Croatia or rather the dual monopoly. It needs to be done in our Court of Justice at the IDS Club and that extra profit made by all monopolies regardless of whether they work in telecommunications or some other activities extra tax because it is really not natural that someone can make a profit of a billion-and-a-half or two billion kuna. That's what I said to be particularly taxing and the IDS Club is joining an initiative signed by gentlemen at the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31217	Thank you very much. Information to members of the Committee on Gender Equality. The 18th session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held today on February 3rd at the "Janka Draskovica" hall starting at 3:00 p.m. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS, Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31218	Dear Mr Vice President, here is the 22nd July of the former Telecommunications Council to open a tender for the award of three concessions in the second-generation GSM mobile network system. And three concessions in the third generation system... at the state level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The then Council extends the tender, and immediately thereafter it is replaced and a new Council has been appointed at the head of the newly established Telecommunications Agency, including two formerly senior employees of the Croatian Telecom. And after the extended deadline for the submission of bids for the third mobile operator no one signed up except for the Croatian Swedish... gathered in the company Tele 2 by Swedish telecom operator Tele 2 and 9 very successful companies: Business banks, Croatia insurance, Nexe groups, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Engineer, Dalekvoda, Lure, Jamnice, IGH, Fine and so on. For the UNTAS concession, the existing two T-Mobile and Vip Net operators applied. In public, there was a late delay in two other potential bidders, Croatia mobile and match telecom who asked for their offers to still be accepted even though the tender documentation was explicitly prohibited. The Council acted on documentation and approved other bidders as well as Croatia's request to extend the deadline for submission of tenders. It was speculated that none of these bidders had a bank guarantee and that it was deliberately delayed. Tele 2 d.o.o. It was invited to the agency for further clarification of its offer and welcomed very well by the agency to which it also testifies sound records at the Agency. But seven days later, an unexpected turn takes place. The Board of the Agency rejects one valid offer by Tele 2 company, explaining that it has not met the minimum value threshold of 400 points. It is rated 390 points by the Council. These are cited as their biggest regret as an insufficient contribution to the national economy. The number of employees as well as an insufficient translation of the offer. The consortium requested a detailed explanation of the decision, the individual evaluations of all council members and the analysis of the scoreboard of the consortium's offer. NO, he never got that. Instead of a real analysis based on professional economic criteria, which should precede the score in any transparent and regular procedure and on the basis of which the Council should be offered only a smut and a unmistakable explanation of the Agency's decision, i.e. a transparent attempt to explain the assessment clearly predetermined that the Croatian Swedish consortium should receive 390 points for the offer. Trying to appeal to a reasonable decision by the consortium complained to the agency, parliamentary committees, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and connections, but without any results. The consortium then referred its complaint to the European authorities by explaining to them the non-transparentity of the licensing procedure for the third operator. The competent national authorities have been embellished by the decision as pointed out by the independent authority of the Telecommunications Agency. The consortium finally also referred the suit to the administrative court and asked the ministry to amend the decision under the law of supervision as well as the request to the Agency to amend its decision. But the authorities have gone deaf about everything and the Agency has opened a new competition. The European authorities have warned Croatian institutions of the non-transparency of the procedure and have shown concern over the whole tender process. The public also recognized the game of licensing and followed the whole story with an extremely large number of publications in all the media. The withdrawal of the license by the Croatian Swedish consortium was a day of breaking news on all Croatian televisions, as well as on the front pages of the newspaper. Diplomatic circles follow the whole story equally closely and point out that such things cannot happen in one country that wants to go to Europe. In light of the blurry story about the first competition with special attention and the second competition is welcomed under the increase. Three candidates appeared in the competition, match Telekom, Croatia mobile and again Croatian Swedish consortium with registered company Tele 2. The bid itself found that Tele 2 alone has an original bank guarantee of 23 million euros and 172 million kunas needed to pay to the State in the name of the concession. This is about the long-planned revenue of the state budget and not the contribution of the Agency to the original and the legal bank guarantee directly endangers state finances. The Telecom match submitted a scanned document on behalf of the guarantee while Croatia's mobiles had a fax document. The Agency's Council decided that the guarantees would be checked by the Croatian National Bank which was not done after 8 days. Although journalists were told the guarantee will be checked by 8 December. The Agency also pledged that it would put a summary of the tender offers that bidders had to submit as part of the documentation very soon on their website. On Monday, December 6th, a summary of offers was published on the Web site, although only Tele 2 was found to have a valid guarantee. But a day later on the same web site a new summary of the offer for the match Telekom appears and has been substantially changed and significantly reduced from 20 to 13 pages. In the new summary, Ina appears as a partner even though there was no first summary. In the first summary, there was a reference to Ingra where there was no more in the second. The summary does not mention either the number of employees or the contribution to the national economy in terms of imports or the like. When the media announced that the summary of the offer was unlawfully amended by the Agency, very conflicting explanations came about what happened and why no one was authorised to subsequently change neither the offer nor the summary. Finally, after numerous articles on the Agency’s website, instead of a summary of the offer, a summary of the offer to publish on the Internet that has not been supplied in a valid manner appears. So just text about it. At the same time, the Agency shall inform the media that there has been a mistake and that the wrong document has been published and subsequently withdrawn. The media is mocking the inconsistencies of the agency itself at the same time studying the telecom match. The company that submitted the offer to the Agency is not registered at all in the court register, as are the companies partners listed in the offer. MT Investments and MT Partners. Instead of the companies listed in the tender registered company Match Telekom and the sole owner and founder is Bruno Markizio. The gentleman at the handover made public statements that he had the support of Ina, Hep and Končar. So it's a turn of state-owned companies. All these companies have been fenced in the media claiming that there are only letters of intent. While some were undermining that the mention of state-owned companies raises doubts that the non-existent firm Match Telecom actually supports the Croatian state itself. The Swedish company Tele2 points out that they have never heard of the Telecom Match or of Mr Marquis, although they have been operating in the telecommunications sector for more than 20 years in 25 countries of the world. Nor has anyone else in the telecom business ever heard of these companies and of that gentleman. The company's own structure is complicated and unverified. But state-owned Croatian companies still support her. Although the same support some of them refused to give a consortium in which 9 of the most successful Croatian companies with a 49% stake. The whole story raises doubts about the regularity of new competitions and doubts about the intentions of individual institutions with the award of company licenses that have no financial guarantee for concessions, let alone for extremely large investments in the telecom business. Tele 2 also announced that it will reduce prices on the telecom market from 20 to 50%, that it will employ 1,000 workers by 2007. That it will open a user centre in Vukovar where the highest unemployment rate in the country is. And that he has interests in investing in fixed telephony as well. Only a strong telecom operator can truly fulfill such promises and the Telecom match certainly isn't. Does this mean that some in this country are not the interests of citizens and further development and employment in the first place, which and whose interests are then surpassed by citizens' interests. For this reason, I urge my dear colleagues to support the establishment of this committee in the framework of their powers and the fight for democracy. To investigate who and why is behind the offer of a non-existent company. This almost made it impossible for citizens to make cheaper phone calls and further liberalisation of the Telecommunications Market in Croatia. This is one of the important conditions for joining the European Union. We should not be called by the European Union for such non-transparent and illegal procedures and for such actions to significantly slow our entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31219	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 11.43 p.m. for a 10-minute hearing. We're moving on to an individual debate. Please. Here's someone put the last place there, so. Here you are, on behalf of the SDP club Mrs. Željka Antunović
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club will, with great satisfaction and no doubt, support the establishment of this investigative committee because we believe that what should be the task of the investigating commission is indeed the public interest of the Republic of Croatia and that there are reasonable doubts, and that there are serious doubts with several aspects that are very bad and very dangerous for Croatia's future development. It seems to us that this is one of the examples that confirm and re-inaugurate the old practice of crime in the economy, the abuse of economic interests, the involvement of certain state agencies or individual well-positioned civil servants or officials. And it's finally about a reasonable suspicion of serious crime. We talked here yesterday about something that should also be connected and investigated in this case. We were talking about the dangers and the spread of corruption. This is an example, and this confirms all that the previous speakers here for this speaker have said that the big profits that can be drawn from the telecommunications business are opening up a new space for major possible corruption. In this business that should investigate this investigative commission is almost all suspicious. The tender has been opened, and for unclear reasons it is an extended deadline for submission of tenders, during the first competition, to make the first competition very unclear without any explanation, without any logical reason, by failing to choose the concessionaires. At that time, an almost incident occurred, namely the bidder, concessionaire Tele 2, who had met all the conditions of the competition was firmly convinced that he had not missed out, that he had not failed to fulfil any obligation, which almost had no competition in that contest was loud, rather loudly and at all addresses he directed his protests and complaints. It was then possible to hear public objections from where they were entitled, from where they had the courage, to justify their loud cry for their suspicions that illegal, illegal decisions had taken place, that they had taken place on nothing based on a decision. They then directed a letter with chronology and an explanation of everything they held that had happened and that it should not have happened that way to all of us. I think each of the MPs got that letter. They were then called on to question the independence of a decision by such an independent body as the Telecommunications Council at all. And this very council, whatever the composition, was chosen in any way, and at any point it was chosen from that council itself from the abstention of certain members of that council, from the very scrupulous arguments and responses that came at that time from the President of the Council could be concluded that the Council had indeed not made an independent and independent decision. And because of this, there is a reasonable doubt that someone either blackmailed them or tried to corrupt them or forced them to make such a decision that they were obviously not satisfied with either. And then a second contest was called, it's kind of like an interstellar because all those who were supposed to respond to official complaints, to official complaints then failed concessionaries did not react, or were not quick enough or had not yet initiated any action at all. There was a second contest that ended here, a concessionaire was elected, and then a terrible scandal came out. The scandal that one of the bidders, those who after this second competition also tried to raise public halabuku, falsified the bank guarantee and that there are a whole series of suspicious elements of involvement that state-owned companies, which are government agencies. And this is indeed the case where an investigative committee is required based on the law to examine what it is. But that will not be enough at all, it is something I hope for the sake of interest and citizens, because of the economic, political interests of the Republic of Croatia will indeed pass in this House. However, we at the SDP Club expect and ask that the bodies that are in this country are obliged to investigate both crime and corruption and all forms of illegality start doing their job yesterday. We expect in this case the state's attorney's office, the crime police and all those who have the strongest instruments to determine what's really true here, which is illegal, where corruption can be recognised, whether it's dirty money laundering or trying to launder dirty money. Is he involved in this other than the state and some state or if he is involved in the state, whether he is involved in crime miles in Croatia, which he usually goes through. All of this may be determined by means of evidence or evidence and by means of some documents by an investigative committee. But the real facts of the persecution of those who engage in criminal activities are only competent bodies. And that is why I repeat it once more, not that we expect it from them, that is what we ask of them. And we hope that the results will be pronouncing and that what's dirty will separate from what's clean. So the next time a public tender is called, it's not about the sale of Croatia, I don't know, to this or those shops. The opening of tenders for the third concession, the sale of some company does not have to be the sale of Croatia. It is an economic and political interest, it is the interest of our citizens, it is an interest to increase the number of jobs, to raise wages, to grow a gross social product and to reduce our duty. To become as capable as possible of starting our own economy. The damage caused by these dubious competitions and these suspicious affairs by the involvement of some strange forces in this business is multiple. It is not only economic but also political and can even be talked about serious international compromise and political compromise, but also the economic compromise of international proportions that will further endanger and thus make insufficient foreign investment in Croatia. I won't remind you because today it was said here that international economic operators reacted, how potential investors in Croatia reacted when they saw certain offers of international corporations being made to international competitions scheduled from Croatia. Those are very, very bad messages. And what is worst, after several international competitions have been successfully carried out in Croatia very transparently, can think of them as anything they want, but available to the public, we now face again the attempt to wrap up serious business, business from the interest of the Republic of Croatia in some opaque paper, in some opaque cellophane that ends in scandal. Sometimes such jobs were made, and there was one step, and it started blurry and ended blurryly, and that's why we had the privatisation we had. This time this job or what was tried to do differs from those former times just because the pumpkin finally broke out, which doubt leaked into the public, which is still the courage of those who know something more below about what happened here did not fail and what is real information so now and finally this information about the counterfeit guarantee came out in public. And that is why it is good that the time is coming in Croatia when crime of abuse and corruption will be increasingly difficult to cover up. That's why in the end I'm just going to repeat that we at the SDP Club support the establishment of this committee. We ask that it be formed and started to work as soon as possible, to do this work as soon as possible, but we also insist that already today, or already yesterday, all bodies have a duty to determine the illegalities in this society to deal with this case most seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31221	Thank you. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31223	I'm sorry, there was one correction to the incorrect assumption we predicted, that's Mr. Milan Madden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31224	I would correct one perhaps in a series of incorrect allegations when the distinguished representative said that the first offer he gave to the Telet, or consortium of third happiness, had an offer that was actually to be accepted, which was credible. I'm saying this offer wasn't, and I'm responsiblely saying it was valid. It did not offer concessions, or documentation... and thus would damage Croatia's state budget for 70 million kuna. I am responsible for this because I also spoke to Mr. Skegro at a lecture at IBM at the Faculty of Economics, where he explained exactly the way you explained it. On my question, what's the difference between a first and a second offer, he had nothing more to say. The difference is what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31225	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So as much as I'm opposed to setting up a number of investigative committees on this or that, I think this represents a classic example of a case where an investigative commission should be set up. Why? Well, there's one perhaps hard-to-prove crime. In the competition, however, Tele-2 won in the end, which apparently had the best offer and in the first canceled competition. Any criminal application or investigation by the competent authorities should end with the conclusion that the Telecommunications Council has finally made the right decision and that the offence has not been committed. But what does the Proposer of this investigative committee suggest? He suggests an attempted robbery and an attempt he gave up in 5 minutes to 12. It only gave up when it was discovered and it was not discovered here in our country but was discovered outside, when Bank Di Roma discovered the fact that it did not give anyone any bank guarantee, no guarantee of 22.23m euros. That's when things start to fly off, and then she comes public. It means when a foreign bank says that in Croatia someone is trying to get a job based on counterfeits. And who's all involved in trying to assign that job? Three major Croatian companies are involved. And now to whom the directors of these companies will answer interesting questions if not to an investigative committee to which they must appear and to which they must answer. Who are they going to answer those questions to? The press? Maybe if they wanted to, if they didn't do anything to anyone. Look when it comes to a job carrying a million euros a day and giving such a job to anyone, then the procedure for granting that job must be quite clear. Then he must also know who responded to the competition and who won the competition and who may have guessed that one or someone else would win the contest. There's been a heavy charge, a really serious accusation, a suspicion, and it's all in the face of organized crime. When we talked yesterday about the convention, the ratification of the Convention on Combating Corruption, I called for a national consensus in my debate. I called for the unity of all parties in the fight against corruption. Because when is corruption the most dangerous? She's dangerous everywhere, and when she shows up in health care, when she shows up in a clerk's machine. But it becomes cancer, it becomes hard to eradicate if it connects well with the state authority primarily with the executive, which makes decisions. Decisions worth millions of euros and are particularly dangerous if they connect with the judiciary. If it's true that organized crime is, therefore, that the mafia was involved in this business, in an attempt to get this license from this suspicious firm Match Telekom that serious people don't know who it is or what it is. And if it is true that in that attempt organised crime he found a co-worker in the bodies of the state government, in the ministry, in the person of the minister, in anyone acting within the government, then it becomes a national problem. Then it becomes a problem that must be solved first and foremost because of ourselves. Who's going to believe this government, who's going to believe this country when they have to report to some contest tomorrow if there's any doubt that jobs are being obtained here or that they can get through corruption and that who's going to get the mafia in this country? We won't be able to find as a serious investor state. That's why this isn't just about this government. This is no problem, even less the opposition's problem, this is a national problem. She therefore fell to suspect some senior officials of the ruling party. I think the HDZ will best act to support the establishment of this commission because it must or must discover whether these serious doubts are correct, must detect the guilty, exclude them from politics, from being able to decide at any time at any time. Or he has to remove suspicion from them. But without it, without one or another solution, we have created ourselves a national problem that will be difficult and perhaps never solved. Therefore, I call on all parties, above all HDZ, not to take this as an opposition ruling ping-pong but to perceive the seriousness of the situation and to respond adequately to the seriousness of the situation. To establish this Investigation Commission, to support him in his work, to support him and executive power, Prime Minister, Government. Let's give him all the information we can and give him this problem, let's clear this scandal up to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31227	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, of course, there may be no particular warning to this, but as usual when such topics are of exceptional, exceptional importance to the Croatian public, Croatian citizens, the Croatian budget then of course there is no television. So it wouldn't be anything vague, television doesn't transmit, the whole story is arranged. Obviously, there was no special happiness nor to hear all that was to be heard about the investigation committees of Cacic-Tomcic, and there is no special happiness likely for the party in power nor to hear all this talk about this, about scandal, about this criminal affair involving a whole series of directors of the highest, largest state-owned companies, and obviously not without a warrant and coordination by the highest state officials because there is no one in this country who could ever believe it. I have to say that when I came to the Ministry for the first month I received, I would say about not to exaggerate, 50, 60 letters, and even so many phone calls from our different embassies from the country where various companies and individuals offered themselves for some talks, arrangements, arrivals, tours, offers. Immediately at the beginning, I gave a warrant to the chief of staff to request an audit report for the last 3 years, first-class audit houses for companies who want to discuss and, of course, references to the list and short biographies of the leading management. After that, I got a little bit of pressure. I think there's only two, three of them left. It doesn't take a lot of knowledge, brains and abilities and experience to say and conclude such things and to prevent possible contacts, blasphemy, and these kinds of mob business at the highest level. The latest affair over the forged bank guarantee of Match Telekom will certainly rock the state summit itself. We know that the big question is who is in the shadow of INA, HEP and Concar, and it's only a matter of time before it's exposed. Someone might as well as be told in public, and even if nothing else could at least protect themselves and start talking. The excuse that it was not known that the forged document was wrong by others is certainly stories that children in kindergarten don't trust today. From the beginning, it was known what Match Telekom was, who Bruno Marquezie was, it was known that it was a white-world hostupler, a proven white-world hostupler. There was nothing new about that. By the way, of course, very quickly it was confirmed that it was not only Banca di Roma, but also the prominent firm Alcatel to present himself falsely in the name of Alcatella in support of Match Telekom. So, and it's been made public and that lawsuit is before us. It may not have been mentioned here until now, not perhaps but rather. Of course, it is not possible that the leaders of INA, HEP and Končar, their financial directors, the presidents of the administration, whose multimillion-dollar business daily routine was nothing, and they knew nothing about it, nor could they have imagined or recognized anything. That's too bad. As far as administrative oversight is concerned, I have already said that the sudden interruption of surveillance is obviously due to the fact that the affair has become clear and has tried to cover it up. These current demands we have the opportunity to hear from this particular ministry that they're looking for investigations are quite interesting. I mean, they're looking for an investigation against themselves. It's good, and if it's not better, it's not bad either. Of course, that coincidence that Minister Calmeta had decided to publish a secret contract with Deute Telekom from the 90th just the day before, before the bank of Di Roma published counterfeits to divert the public's attention or at least ease that blow could be a coincidence, and it doesn't have to. I'm personally not particularly inclined to believe in that kind of coincidence. Of course that bringing the country down by this kind of procedure to the banana state will throw us even deeper than we are on a scale of countries with prominent corruption. Greenfield investment will be even harder to realise. Of course, I'm glad that we have some broad support here even from the SDP despite the declared alliance for Europe, to examine this. I hope it doesn't break the alliance. But if it violates, don't be afraid of us from HSN we're willing to support every effort to enter Europe, but not concealing crime, that's not. There's no political alliance, no position, no opposition to trade, I'm telling you, you're telling me, I'm holding the lottery for you, and you're giving me a basis for democracy. Here's lucky that's not so, so if God gives and luck... and votes of opposition we'll assist with, of course, the prominent partners of the HDZ government, because the HDZ alone is the majority to reject this commission. I have no doubt of the HSLS honorary party that will request that this be examined. I have no doubt about the retired gentlemen who will stand firm in defense of their rights. In other words, gentlemen, you will see on this committee who really wants us to finally establish a legal state and clear up with crime, and whoever stands firm behind crime, who prepared it, who gave orders to participate and does not want it revealed. Those who vote against, don't want this one to be the biggest criminal enterprise we've ever done in the past year, and there have been a series of Hvar and Bechtel and Imostroy here and this one to be exposed and to the guilty of punishment. Of course, Croatia deserves at least to see who gave the orders and that those who gave the orders are responding for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31229	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the fact that there is no direct transmission of HTV, that is to HTV to the Directorate, not to the Bureau of Parliament, or to any party, is addressed to the wrong address. Dear Representative Krešimir Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31230	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. What to say after all these, I'd say still unproductive discussions. It's a serious issue, I would say a very serious topic, because the situation in the Telekom sector is extremely important, deserves a serious approach, deserves to solve a bunch of problems that are unfortunately not solved, because a serious issue with a non-serious approach really cannot be solved. Today we're talking about everything and everything, and I'm going to remind you of what our recent debate looked like when we elected members of the Telecommunications Agency. We talked about scandals, we talked about names. There's a scandal, we generate it, there's no problem. Today's debate, dear gentlemen, is no different from that debate when we elected members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, and I would like to stress that. Because simply destructive debates do not allow serious problems to be solved. This initiative is unfortunately not going to make it possible. The proposal for a decision to set up a Commission of Investigations to establish facts relating to the international tender for concessions for the use of radio frequency spectrum for the provision of telecommunications services in the second generation and third generation mobile network system is not the way to go. This initiative since 12 November 2004 has completely different objectives, please read what the document says. Since many who have discussed this document today have not even read it, I will read something in it. The circumstances for which this initiative was launched today are different from those of November 12th. For this reason, I was logical to expect that this initiative would withdraw from the procedure, which would be the smartest and most reasonable if we were to analyse the content of this document since 12 November 2004. Since this has not been done, another possible initiative should ensure that targets are updated in view of today's circumstances and today's situation, and I said at the beginning and stress the situation in the Telekom sector is serious. This high-tech sector that should bear the economic development of the Republic of Croatia does not have the role that it must and could play and that is the biggest problem, which unfortunately in all these discussions we do not talk about for understandable reasons, because we do not understand it. This document on page 2 reads when it comes to the objectives of this body, it is intended to achieve this commission. Some of the members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency are former HT employees and transmitters and connections, and the issue of conflict of interest is raised among other things. The whole debate last time was about expressing doubts about people who can't properly do their job. You claimed it was those who would prevent the award of the concession, that they were working for the HT to be on the HT payroll. And today the debate has the same similar character just something else colored, it's about... it's about bank guarantees, it's about Pethrak, and it's not about the essence of the problem. Furthermore, in this document and the objectives defined stand. The reasons for not choosing the council will be next to suit certain companies, specifically HT. And here's an illustration of the debate I've been stressing since the last time, it doesn't matter by its character any different from these discussions today. Mr. Stazic made an outstanding contribution to the quality and seriousness of this debate last time, so I will quote your presentation. The quote "they are found in a classic conflict between public interest to please companies from which they come. HT and those with which they may still be on the payroll, because we don't see where they work." It's been the character of the debate since last time. Furthermore, the following is said your quote, "I can do it with the usual delay in the choice of concessionaries." If this process of selecting a third concessionary is delayed and members of the council will be affected by the third, there is nothing to report who will be killed. You're like, "They're gonna be scared of citizens.". It was the character of your debate. Let's move on. If the Parliament makes a decision by the will of the parliamentary majority and appoints a council like this, i.e. We announce in advance that we will submit a report to the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. Still in the same style and in the same tone quote Mr. Stazic so as not to embarrass these people talk about members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency responsible and professional people. So, so these people don't embarrass, so they don't name them today and throw them out of the council tomorrow because of the conflict of interest they're in in fact. The SDP club is proposing to the parliament to stop the government from considering and reviewing its decision. Today, circumstances are quite different. These same people, along with all the pressures and it's clear that no one in this country works without a variety of political pressures. They awarded a concession. They've awarded concessions to the highest bidder, that's one fact. The other thing is whether it's what's best for us and what we should get as Croatia. My attitude is famous. No, I don't. "B" they stopped what you might be talking about, a possible crime. So these people did their job properly and well. It's another tone of debate from last time. An analogy with this today. Mr. Kapraljevic, quote, "The government is in the interest of not reaching the third operator." Why? As the third market operator arrives, citizens pay less services, etc. So, at the time, you claimed explicitly that the government's interest is not only the interest of the members of the Council that Croatia does not get a third concessionary. Next, another quote of yours. There's no Mr. Kapaljevic here. The quote "I, as an ex- HT employee, cannot be objective because there's a terrible lot of friends out there and I know which Calvary they're going through right now and I can't be objective." So please, you claim to yourself that you cannot be objective and you are in place and you have taken responsibility that requires extreme objectivity. At the same time, you declare people who have professional and professional credibility unbiased and biased. Please, twenty years ago, there was only HPT and Tesla in Croatia. These people had nowhere else to work except for HPT and Tesla. Therefore, they as engineers had to have a certain experience at work because without this working experience they would not be able to function in the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. You disqualified them, you gave character to the debate the last time which was doubtful, scandals, people are unable to properly, professionally and responsibly do their job. Today's debate is not about a different character. This investigative committee cannot solve those problems that are far more complex than anything that stands here. What is standing here in this document is no longer current, it is not enough, it is not worth it and if the work of the Croatian Telecom is to be improved in general regardless of who it belongs to and who is involved in it, then it is necessary to fully define the objectives of this investigation committee. This is unacceptable for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31231	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31232	Comrade Cosic, it seems to me that you missed the topic we're talking about. We are not here today to discuss the situation in the telecom sector or the composition of the Telecommunications Council. We are here today discussing one whole other matter, the establishment of a commission to investigate possible crime in the award of concessions or attempted crime and the possible link between the mafia and state authorities. This is the topic of today's debate, not the situation in the telecom sector. Yes, I doubted the independence of that council when we chose it but it turned out that my doubts were and justified because this council annulled its original decision without anyone knowing why. And then it made a second decision the very first time the scandal broke out, when it was seen that it was impossible to avoid it, that things would come out, and now it's the task of this investigative commission to determine first whether or not someone affected those people and if they were who. And if it is how and what. Did they try to corrupt them, blackmail them or order them? And if you want these things to be clarified, to remove any doubt from these people, then vote for this investigative commission because it's the only thing that can determine, that and no one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31233	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31234	Mr. Stazic, the suspicions, scandals of this kind of initiative, serious problems will not be solved. You doubted those people, those people did their job properly. I said, pressure always has but professional ethics, professional education prevailed, and that's how problems can be solved. All these problems defined here, a detailed explanation of the score process, whether the score was preceded by expert analysis, expertise, etc. are things that belong to professional and professional bodies and experts and do not take on that kind of work and responsibility because we generate problems instead of solving them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31235	Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31236	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs! Before us is the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with an international tender for concession for the use of radio spectrum for the provision of telecommunications services in the second and third generation mobile network system. The proposal for this decision on the establishment of an investigative committee points out that the investigative committee must identify all relevant facts relating to the non-transparency of the tender procedure. During the course of its work, the investigating committee should take into account the tender documentation and other documents which may be relevant for the competition. The investigation committee shall also be responsible for any person whose work or behaviour is being examined to provide an indication of the facts and circumstances of that action. In order to be able to take a realistic look at the facts of the international competition, we must take into account the conditions under which the tender is called as well as the conditions in which the Republic of Croatia and its market are located. In the area of the Republic of Croatia over the past years, there has been a number of social and economic changes that are most evident in the opening and liberalisation of all markets and so on the telecom market, the liberalisation of the Croatian mobile telephony market is necessary to create competitive relations that are necessary for the provision of quality services and the reduction of their prices. The real fact is that since 1998, competition has opened up a new period in the development of Croatian telecommunications and in the development of the Croatian economy in general. Before the invitation to tender, there were two providers of mobile phone services, and the studies carried out show the justification for the introduction of another additional operator. From the point of view of the users of services, the introduction of a new operator will allow price reduction, increase coverage of the increase in the density of the users currently representing the telephony, and the studies carried out show the justification of introducing another additional operator. From the point of view of users of services, the introduction of a new operator will allow price reduction, increase coverage increases in user density currently around 53%, significantly higher than fixed telephony. In determining an optimal solution when selecting concessionaries, it is necessary to define the relevant criteria that will allow... by more criteria and thereby improve decision-making quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Generally looking at every new technology has many advantages and newspapers in view of the previous generation. Telecom is one of the key elements in the country's sustainable development. Experiences from other countries of economic like Croatia show that following the entry of a new operator into the telecommunications market, the number of users has been observed among all operators. This points to the fact and does not like changes unless they are significantly profitable. After all, it is evident that a public tender for concession has been called and I am convinced that the concession is also awarded in accordance with the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia. That is why I am surprised at the discussions so far on the qualifications of certain people and large Croatian companies about the constant expression of suspicion of the mention of heavy words, crime, mafia and others. I don't think anyone should be offended, judged before someone is proven guilty. Personally I have nothing against any commission but it must be in one civilized way where everyone is treated... until proven guilty and not on the grounds of suspicion that someone is impaling a cross. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I cannot say, too, that the continued establishment of all committees, investigative commissions violate the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and the faith in the institution of the rule of law and serve exclusively for the barren bickering between the authorities of the opposition and that all doubts or allegations could be checked in the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia. But I repeat that I personally have nothing against establishing committees if they are in one civilized way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31237	Thank you. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31238	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since the vote is on what is written and not on what is said here, I must return to the topic. Because according to what's written and how it's voted, that's how it's going to be done, and that's how it's going to be done, and I have to say it for those who listen to us eventually or watch which I regret along the way. What are you doing here? Establishing an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with an international tender for concessions for the use of radio spectrum for the provision of telecommunications services. Why are you looking for this? It says here, a strike sentence: "According to all the facts, there is a reasonable doubt that there is no real interest in introducing a third operator, proven capable of jeopardising the existing duopol, and that the new tender changes the conditions to suit certain companies or dictate the selection of a third operator." And as I listened carefully today, no one challenged the work of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, however, they were mostly commended for doing a good job. The only comment was why they repeated the competition but it fell into the water when it was known that in the re-competition the same one which was the main one in the first competition but with a higher offer, a higher price and that was the benefit and profit for the state rather than the loss. And that is why if the second mentioned today is to be solved for these leading Croatian companies HEP, INA, Končar, etc., then this commission should be proposed, such a commission that will examine it. And it does not say anywhere here that this will be explored but that the work of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency will be explored. And that's why it would really be good to pull this off, and if this other thing wants to be examined for what I really don't have anything to do with, or if someone in the cabinet has influenced or if it isn't such a commission and it's proposed and then let it be examined. And by the way, there's mostly a missing topic in the debate. I am also sorry that you said today and my colleague Ćosic and this morning not on this topic of colleague Markov, this is practically consummated, happy ending of the competition. And this is all that was accompanied. Let's suggest we examine it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31239	Thank you. Replica. Honorable deputy president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31240	I thank Mr. President, I would not like to underestimate my colleague, Nenadić, and I am sure he understands what this is all about, only for unknown me is he trying to pretend he doesn't understand. Well, of course, fellow Nenadić will come up with these companies and the whole arrangement that was made there, questioning the procedure that led first to a very positive opinion and then to a change in the position of the regulator, all of this by examining the entire procedure of delays on planes for 10 minutes, all of this questioning procedure that was proposed to be examined in this proposal for the investigating committee will come out. So, and what you explicitly said was that you were interested and that you would support the examination is clear that by examining the procedure in the first round and then deciding to go to the second competition that it would absolutely come out. So I think that you can have a clean conscience and a calm soul if you are to investigate the great indication of the crime that is present here that you will absolutely experience it as a satisfaction and then support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31241	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31242	Of course I understand and understand what it says here, and I'm really repeating it again, and I'm afraid that based on these demands, it won't come to what you're looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31243	Thank you. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31244	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have taken the floor for this very simple reason why I want to say that I want to support the establishment of this investigation committee because something has happened which is a set of circumstances and at the same time a very interesting situation regarding this proposal. The fact that one of the promoters, at the same time, spoke in the opening section of this proposal for the establishment of this investigation committee at the same time and the president of the home body of the Maritime, Transport and Connection Committee, who has also initiated, together with other colleagues, the establishment of this investigative committee on the one hand and, on the other hand, in his address to this Parliament, presented some additional facts and points of view which support the actual presence of public interest to examine this issue and to establish the truths about these facts and these allegations. I will just remind myself that, among other things, it is clearly stated that this is considered an affair which may be said by a representative of the most difficult, worst and most dangerous for us, that it is about falsifying documents, trying to cheat citizens, robbing them further, that it is about an online criminal militia, that they are corrupt directors of large public enterprises, that this goes to the government and that the government is responsible in this respect, that there is a big money behind it. And so on. Then, that the ministry, which, that the ministries were acting against the law, was writing written acts and instructions that they asked to stop the technical examination and everything else. As a matter of fact, this home working body, among other things, and in the function of the Assembly Committee, carried out practical controls on the legality of the work of the competent authorities of the state administration. All of this suggests that these things must simply be examined. And in such a situation it is quite clear, thank you very much, Mr. President, and in such a situation it is quite clear that such a proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee cannot simply be rejected and parliament with this situation must show the maximum form of political and legal responsibility to protect exactly the fundamental values of the constitutional order in which the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia rests. And to examine and investigate all these facts. And, of course, any knowledge that will arise if the data or possible evidence is behind them and that there is a reasonable doubt or indication that there is a fundamental suspicion that criminal or criminal offences have been committed to initiate, of course, by means of competent national authorities, appropriate research procedures. And right along the way here, I suggest that it might be time to consider another situation in our legislative practice. It would be good to consider the situation if the amendments to the law on investigative committees were to be amended because it seems to me that the provision under which it is said that the investigative committees should stop working if a judicial procedure is actually to be carried out should actually be done and talked about something else. That when a court case is pending, it would not be possible to establish an investigative commission not to interfere with the work of the judicial authority. But also when the investigation committees have begun to work that until the deadline for completing the work with the investigating committee should not, in fact, open court proceedings or if judicial proceedings are then opened that they will not stop the work of the investigative commission. Except, of course, they will provide the necessary documentation if it is referred to as necessary for the conduct of the proceedings and the court itself. Why these questions need to be discussed in this open manner. The fact is, it's obvious that it's not enough that we're just trying through the reports and the information that we get in the House is actually controlling the administration and the competent state bodies in the law enforcement of the constitution and the law. Obviously, the time has come for Parliament to have the possibility of direct supervision. And that is, among other things, through the investigative committees, related to the achievement of certain legal provisions. And the law. That is, the more the fact shows that, often, certain jobs are done. So only then do we get post-festum information about possible violations, and it is harsh and serious violations of the law, as is the case here, not only of the proposal, but also of the position of the proposing representatives, can it be suggested that there are serious violations of the law, illegal acts, which should certainly be sanctioned, to show that in Croatia there is and is the rule of law and the rule of law that represents the interests of those citizens who are who are and who act in accordance with the law. At the same time, he sanctions all those who break the law, of course, in accordance with the law. And that in a situation like this, they also play a preventive role so that such things don't happen anymore. Why this is further important is that only now new species and forms of privatisation of large systems are being opened in the coming period. And great values, from natural resources to I don't know, achieved business financial systems that will need to be privatized. From the Croatian forests when they are restructured to privatisation, through individual production plants to Ina, to new stages, as well as insurance companies of financial institutions. In such a situation it is quite clear that there will be great, great interest and domestic business and international public to participate in these procedures. But it is also necessary to send a message in advance that in the Republic of Croatia it is required to act in these affairs and procedures in accordance with the laws of the rule of ordinary rules of conduct in such procedures. And not that they may actually be hiding behind it as indicated by the representatives of the proposings of various forms of criminal miles, the mafia form of action, or as is also indicated in fact, behind which large bribery and corruption are, or illegal actions and crime. It is therefore necessary to examine such cases and open the space to establish the truth and also to allow state authorities, with the greatest cooperation, in fact with Parliament, to carry out their part of the work, or to process if such things are shown to be accurate, process the relevant participants of such events and, of course, initiate appropriate procedures. We should warn you of another fact here. The question arises and what about the first competition if, after such falsified documents, all of this happened and what will happen in relation to the case, as the international entity participated in the competition if it initiated the compensation dispute and so on. I think it's a very, very serious matter, and that is why I have to say once again that I will support the establishment of this investigative committee, and I think that we all in parliament must insist that this investigative commission gets the necessary time needed. The means to get the full truth about this case within the appropriate deadlines. Thank you very much. Report and parliament, of course, Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31245	Thank you. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31246	Although I've been discussing this topic in front of the club today, I have a few more details to say. Dear Representative Chehok, today in the debate, encouraged thinking that it was not good for this House to turn into demagogue discussions and research, I agree fully with him. And he wonders what Croatia has done with its telecommunications market or we have actually heard from most MPs on this topic, actually where Croatia is going in the telecommunications market. I believe the Parliament is passing all the laws and the ones we're discussing today. So telecommunications laws. So I want to remind you as senior colleagues not of committees but of the laws and processes in which we all participated some less. Some as proposing, as ministers in the government. And some as agents in previous councils. The Croatian telecommunications market is open and competitive and has been modelled by the current regulatory form of the European Union. First of all, the 1994 Council resolution on the liberalisation of the 1998 infrastructure is thought of. I'll only list the final stages of deregulation that we're all witnessing. At the stage of the first is the protocol on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Marrakesh Agreement, which is the founding of a world trade organisation. Then it is a ratification in the Croatian Parliament since 2000, which has entered into force 11. 11th and the same year. In phase two, these are exclusively the rights of the Croatian Telecom under Article 98(4). The Telecommunications Act. Which expired in 31.12.2002. So the market is completely open to new operators in the immovable network. And in phase three, it's access to an isolated local... Croatian telecoms that are obliged to rent telecommunications infrastructure and Croatian telecom obligations to provide portability numbers and before the number of operators by the start of this year. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this law has come into force. It was precisely that law on telecommunications of July 2003 that brought Croatia's legislation into line with the 98th European Union standards and processes. As such, it is also in line with the 2002 regulatory environment. As part of this proposal, I will highlight in fact the main indicators of the development of the telecom market in relation to the European environment. And compared to countries that have recently entered the European Union, because then we are talking about the success and applicability of the current telecommunications law. These areas for improvement through further agreed concessions. Croatia today has about 50 fixed phones on about 100 predicators from countries that have recently entered, in front of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, while lagging behind for Cyprus, Malta and Slovenia. The penetration of the mobile GSM network here today is relatively high from 53% and 53 per 100 inhabitants, respectively. But if we look at the environment in Austria and Slovenia where it is 75, and in Hungary 61 there is just a justification for the expansion of this market and it is good that the agency signed a recent contract. The Law on Telecommunications of July 2003 supports the development of these shortcomings, the penetrations of GSM and mobile UMTS, and therefore it is precisely good that the agency went to the second round of competitions where Teletu, or Third Happiness, was in some way forced to sign a fee for UMTS concession. It is known that the previous government passed the Law establishing agencies, but was almost a year late under the current Telecommunications Act. Why, we have already heard from a series of debates, disagreements from the institutions, disagreements from the then council, the Devan affair, one of the reasons is and is already visible, a quick return to invested capital, therefore a safe profit. So these are the reasons why he was late with the agency. The government, however, had the courage in these taken and known circumstances to propose and the Parliament to appoint a Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. You wouldn't show up here again in a debate about individual members, I really believe they're quality and professional people, and it's normal for them to come from miles of Telekom or Ericcson or Simmons. When we talk about the agency, I have to say this for the public, which is and what is, in fact, the role of the agency, because I'm sure very often MPs use the Agency's name, perhaps with incomplete meaning what its role is. The Agency is an independent and independent legal person with public authority, a national regulatory agency. The Agency shall respond to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the annual report on work and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of telecommunications regulation. The Agency’s Board shall manage the Agency and shall take all decisions in connection with the conduct of the regulatory tasks laid down by law and the Agency shall carry out the following tasks: it shall resolve disputes between the operator and the service provider, and the providers and the user shall take decisions on the granting and withdrawal of concessions and licences. It monitors the price and quality of telecom services and approves the prices of telecom services, makes decisions and solutions regarding the performance of other regulatory tasks and implements administrative reports, manages and conducts the control of RF spectrum, manages address and number procedures, takes measures to protect against interference, etc., etc. Indeed, these are very important powers and just recently announced the competition and results of the agency, in fact it was found that the agency decided correctly both in the first and second competition rounds. In the first round, she refused only the complete offer of concessionaires to Telet, with an explanation of the insufficient contribution to the national economy, and in the second round she chose and signed a contract with the same consortium and after a more complete offer and charged in favour of the state budget amounting to EUR 200 million. Through administrative supervision, the ministry confirmed the validity of the Agency's decision, and therefore I am giving full support to the Government, the Parliament and the Agency to ensure that, with existing telecommunications laws as fast and high-quality as possible, it supports the liberalisation of the telecom market, which should, in fact, ensure the sustainable development of the Croatian telecom market, therefore price services in the market environment with a balanced number of operators, avoid price growth among competition without stimulating investment in infrastructure and innovation, consider national specificities such as most countries in defining national law, and ultimately ensure that Croatian operators can survive among major European operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31247	Thank you. Proposer. He's gone. Synchronising "%s" [[I'll tell you what, that's for the end of the line.]] Second Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in connection with an international tender for the award of concessions for the use of radio spectrum for the provision of telecommunications services in the second generation and third generation mobile network. He's proposing a dozen MPs. The debate is closed. First, we will vote on the proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee as well as in the previous case as on the previous issue. So, I am voting on a proposal to set up an investigative committee. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that the proposal to establish this committee's investigation has not been accepted because 38, abstention 3 and v 63 voted for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues will try to be as brief as possible, given that we have a proposal to form an investigative committee related to an affair that may have, so to speak and the deeper meaning and, in fact, which, now I'm going to say something, everything knows but doesn't really know anything. I think it's also a good thing that we have a two-month break on this subject today and hopefully in the investigation committee we're talking about sober and cold heads. As a rule, when we talk about these problems of this type related to the repressive system either to intelligence services, or to the police, or to the military, we always talk under pressure from an affair. And when you talk under the pressure of an affair, then you always have it behind your neck and you can never get a good and rational judgment. I hope if, in the debates so far, it is about these committees that have been discussed before, and there have been some doubts about this commission, I don't think there should be any doubt, for one single reason, because there's nothing here to say or the Committee for Conflict of Interest, more or less nothing or the police, and probably not the State's Attorney's Office. This is an important job for the Parliament because by law and by the Constitution this House is responsible for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, but it also has its own responsibility for the functioning of national security. Because here you're actually showing a double, a double, a double problem. On the one hand, this Assembly should first of all be interested in the professionality of the service and its employees. Therefore, in which they fulfil their tasks and ensure a higher level of security, i.e. national security is at a satisfactory level and, on the other hand, they do not violate human rights and freedoms in carrying out these tasks. Secret Service is the only segment of this country that has the possibility by law to suspend or put on temporary human rights in some way. So it's a very slippery area, and if we, as a body in charge of the civilian oversight of these services, in this case, do nothing or shed light on all the circumstances, we can be responsible for an affair. I don't have to explain it specifically about public interest, and I'm not going to explain it because I want you to take an analysis of the press or electronic media for the last four, five months of last year, and you're actually going to see what kind of interest it is. What's the media's interest today, or the public's, pardon? The public interest is simply not to repeat this case and that this Parliament says whether and whether secret services are qualified for their legal tasks. After all, if, and I believe it will, this commission is formed and quickly answers all the questions that you have in the paper, that I'm not repeating them now, I think it will very much help the new director of the Anti-Intelligence Agency and all its associates to solve a certain ballast past, not so long ago. What I still have to point out is, there are also the Parliament's Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, there is a Council for the Civil Oversight of this Parliament, which forms it Parliament, there is also a Committee on Human Rights. They've all been discussing this issue on several occasions. However, the following happened, that any debate resulted differently whether it was based on a body's report, whether it was based on any circumstances. However, there are definitely no answers to some questions, not to go into detail, there will be opportunities I hope in the investigation committee. First, let's say the Council for Civil Oversight of Secret Service has reached its conclusions which are said in a certain way that there was no illegality, but at the same time it is left in one conclusion the possibility that everything, whether there were any irregularities, could not be determined. After a while of what's going on, we're getting a report from the Secret Service's office where it's now said there's been irregularities, but it's said that these irregularities dared to show themselves already the levels of some disciplinary offense, some kind of work violation, and that they don't deserve any more attention. But what happens in the meantime? Meanwhile, the president is launching an initiative and is being replaced by the director of the Anti-Intelligence Agency. What's going on in the meantime? The President of the Civil Oversight Council resigns and it is simply obvious that it is impossible for the Director of the Service to resign for disciplinary violations of two or three employees and it is impossible for the President of the Civil Watch Council to resign because I do not know someone has violated their powers but not that he has violated the law, not that he has violated human rights, but only a violation of some let's call him a working or disciplinary myself and I don't know how it might actually be called. I think it should be on this House, or on the committee of inquiry, that it sets out all the questions in detail, because if I say we don't answer and we don't get the answers to those questions, there will be ambiguities. Because here it is, I don't know how many, almost two months, we still don't have a president of the Civil Watch Council. I think that's inadmissible. The board concluded that by mid-month, we would be discussing with the Council what and how. We haven't discussed that yet. In the meantime, I don't need to introduce you to the conclusions of the Committee of Human Rights, which he also gave fully for the right of the journalist in question. And let me finish. I am convinced that around the formation of this investigation committee there will be no doubt or dilemma, because in this way, we will, as a responsible body, actually take off any suspicion that we are covering some kind of violation of fundamental human rights and freedom, and that in such a way we will open the space for the services to do quality and better their work, and that at the same time we will also be able to discuss some things that are being discussed after two years, three of which, according to the new structure, the new law of that service, that is clearly not 100% of the information that I have, because I did not have the opportunity to see, is not in accordance with the law. Thank you very much, I hope that you who are present here, and those who are not actually in favour of this investigative committee, because I don't think that it treats any political group or any lobbyist-economic group, but only treats these citizens of our country, or all those who, possibly for some reason, could be subject to the interest of secret services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31251	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31252	I must correct the allegations that the Council has no chairman, or president. According to the Council's Rules of Procedure after resigning or unable to carry out its duties as president, the Council has two options. It is one thing to change the chairman by alphabetical order each month and the other, until the appointment of the new president, to appoint the chairman unlimitedly as needed, and this council took advantage of this second option and made it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31253	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatian citizens are particularly sensitive to the action of the so-called Secret or intelligence services. That should be fully understood, because they have special reasons for that. By 2000, many citizens felt on their skin what happens when the services are under the control of only one party or worse when these services go wild or when they are kidnapped by any kind of control. That is exactly what happened during a relatively long period of time until the shift of power following the 2000 parliamentary elections. Everything there was bad, from legislative solutions to daily practice. The measures of secret data collection were approved by the interior minister at the time, and the minister was certainly always an exponent of one political option, so it is clear that such a legislative solution actually allowed the use of a security apparatus against political opponents. In such a situation, the entire newspaper newsrooms and numerous journalists treated as extremely dangerous national enemies were also followed. Many civil society institutions have not been better off, especially those who have been working to improve the degree of democracy and civil freedom in Croatia. After 2000, all of them were given the opportunity to gain insight into their files and the opportunity to convince themselves of the incomprehensible amount of stupidity and from the point of view of national security and the relevance of the data that the authorities have collected about them. All also received evidence that they were completely unjustly subject to the processing of secret services with serious and numerous violations of their privacy. During the coalition government, the Security Services Act has been adopted, which has put these services under multiple control. Professional surveillance has been left to the executive authority, and the civilian is entrusted to parliament. The third supervisory point is the Supreme Court, since only the judges of that court can, by means of a track-founded request, approve a secret data collection measure for any suspicious person. Since the law was passed, and for the entire period of the coalition government, we have not been able to witness any affairs and illegalities that would come from the ranks of the intelligence apparatus. Such a situation continued in the first year of Sanader's government's term until the end of last year when it echoed the Pugliz affair in public. The government responded fully expected. First, she tried to minorise the problem, and Prime Minister Sanader long resisted the request of the president of the Republic for the replacement of the head man of the service. Only when faced with the inconclusive arguments that the president put before him was the prime minister's decision on the shift. Such behaviour has further upset the citizens, as they did not see an effective protector of human rights and freedom in the government and in such a prime minister. They had greater confidence in the president of the Republic, and that must have been reflected in the outcome of the presidential elections. Parliament didn't play that role that was entrusted to him either. The Civil Watch Council has been divided. The president and one member of that council were of the opinion that the Anti-Intelligence Agency had violated regulations, and other members of that body were more abstention in that assessment or even the opposite. Thanks to HRT as public television and an invitation to "Open", the public has been given the opportunity to discover why it is because members of the council there have really openly expressed their different views. It has shown that some members of that council are completely misrepresented and that they are mentally protecting the Anti-intelligence Agency from citizens rather than protecting citizens from the illegal work of the Anti-Intelligence Agency. Neither the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which is controlled by the parliamentary majority, has made clear whether or not the action of anti-intelligence agency agents has violated human and civil rights. So you can't trust the board to the end. This is quite logical because most in the Committee are always, most in the Committee follow parliamentary majority policy, and the parliamentary majority follows the government policy it supports, so the Committee's conclusions will always be just recycled views of the government. For the quality control of intelligence services, the composition of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the ratio of the parliamentary majority and minorities in that committee should be amended. It should also determine that this Committee is necessarily run by a representative of the parliamentary minority because only so can the parliamentary minority carry out a quality of one of their basic tasks, control of the authorities. The Pugliz affair has opened another dilemma. In fact, no one has answered the question convincingly yet why the anti-intelligence agency was even listening to a journalist. What information relevant to national security could Helena Puljiz have had? Why was she even interesting to the anti-intelligence agency? Was it an important element in her work résumé that she followed the work of the Office of the President of the Republic in due time and did the agents actually try to find out something from her that might help in trying to discredit the President before the election? If that's the case, then the issue of service politicisation is strongly raised. Because who could have possibly benefited from the president's attempt to discredit himself? It's definitely one of his opponents. And which of the anti-candidates or parties that pointed out had the operational power to demand from the Anti-intelligence Agency to engage in such unimaginably unrepentant work? I leave the answer to that question to our intelligence. It also raises further doubts that the head of the Anti-Intelligence Agency did not send all its reports to the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, but some of these reports were denied to the President. How was the epilogue? With a delay and more under public pressure than because of its voluntary decisive action, the prime minister finally co-signed a solution to Mr. Podbevšek's shift, but is the problem solved? It's not and it can't be. Many questions have run out of answers, and until they are answered, citizens cannot sleep peacefully. Now how do they know they won't come tomorrow because of who knows whose whim and who knows with what wicked motive one of them becomes an object of similar intelligence? Local elections are approaching, so if the Anti-Intelligence Agency has indeed been used for political purposes and for the benefit of one party, who guarantees us that it will not happen again? They could be targeted by all those candidates who pose a real threat to the party. The questions are many, and the answers are few, and the voice for answers is great. It is therefore necessary to establish an investigative parliamentary committee and to establish all the facts of this unpleasant affair. Any opposition to the establishment of this Committee cannot be interpreted differently than as an attempt to cover up and conceal the possible illegal work of the Anti-intelligence Agency, the responsibilities of its employees and the extent of this dangerous injury. There are at least two more important questions to be answered today. The Security Services Supervisory Council consists of presidents and 6 members appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Council has resigned, so there is no Council because it is incomplete and without a president, and civilian oversight of the work of security services at this time is not carried out by anyone. New irregularities can occur at any moment, and we don't have a body that would legally carry out surveillance. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which obliges the President of the Parliament to give interpretations and explanations, I now ask the President of the Croatian Parliament what is he, as the most responsible person from the moment of Mr Cvrtila's resignation to this day, to complete the Council's composition and that he can oversee the work of the service? What did he do to get this missing committee member and the commission to elect a president? Second, the Security Services Act in Article 78 says that the supervision of the security services is carried out by the Croatian Parliament. And Article 83, at the request of the President of the Croatian Parliament, and at least once every 6 months, the President of the Council shall submit reports on the work of the Council. Calling now on the same article of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the President of the Croatian Parliament, did the President of the Council make a commitment to the 6-month report, and if so, why did he not put the report on the Parliament's agenda? From that report, everyone could see how many representations were made, how have they been processed, and what has been the Council's findings on them? We could find out if cases like this were like this before Helena Puljiz. This is how it's all covered with veiled secrets, and that veil has to be stripped. This can be done by an investigative commission, which, behold, is proposed to be established. There are reasons why the SDP Club supports the establishment of this Committee and why it thinks that any opposition means an attempt to make it difficult or even avoid the control of the work of the Anti-Intelligence Agency. Those who go that way will have to bear political responsibility for such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31255	Thank you very much. The president of the Civil Committee for Security Oversight, Mr Cvrtila, according to the Law, submitted a report to me as president of the Croatian Parliament on 6-month work but for the second half of 2003. According to this law, it is simply the report submitted by the President of the Civil Oversight Council that the President of the Croatian Parliament has no obligation to make public debates in the Assembly but simply to take it into account. And if it considers it necessary to take appropriate steps to place it, submit it for discussion to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and take other steps provided for by law. As for the election of the President of the Council who resigned, the very precise legislation regulates all assumptions concerning both the candidate and the election of the President of the Council. And that's where my role is strictly established by law. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31256	I just want to correct the inaccuracies of fellow Stazic that the Council is not working. The Council does, and it solves those items that it has. The fact that there is not one man who is less is not an obstacle to the Council's continued work. Therefore, it is an incorrect assumption that the Council is not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31257	We have students and students from Luciana High School, what kind of writing did you write to me? "The crow." Well, there's a little bit more to be written, so let's say hello from Zagreb. That's apothecary handwriting. [[Applause.]] IDS representative club, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. She's gone. The club loses its right to say the word on this agenda. Dear Representative Frano Piploic, Club of Representatives of the DC, HSLS. He's gone, and that club shares the fate of the previous one. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic The club of representatives of HSP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31258	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'm going to say what the motives of the HSP Club's representative were, why we also supported the need to set up this commission. There's a lot of reasons, so I'm going to count it short, most importantly. First, protect the freedom of journalism and constitutional rights of Croatian citizens, especially in this case and journalists. To restore trust to Croatian citizens in the work of the intelligence community. To point out the irresponsible and irresponsible behaviour in the case of Helena Puljiz and the president of the state and the Prime Minister who acted so irresponsiblely and unresponsibly that they communicated through the media in such a way that they introduced the state constitutional crisis, due to the co-signature institute. Such a form of conduct by the most responsible people in the country is for any condemnation, and from this I guess the President of the State, the Prime Minister, will learn that when it comes to matters of work, it means the intelligence community of the work of the security services that they must, above all, take into account their constitutional and legal obligations. In the whole process, it was also irresponsible and irresponsible to the fact that those who make up the most responsible two persons who make up the National Security Council, meaning in their term of office since the Prime Minister, Mr Sanader, only then met, and they oversee and direct the work of security services. It is also a sad fact that we have found that the coordination council is also only then met Minister Mlinaric told us so on the board, so it did not work. There remains a whole problem, a whole series of problems that are in the work of security services, which we first point to since the beginning of this call to the Parliament, we have asked for a full debate on the work of security services. It's obvious that security services are on their own. That there is no coordination in the full sense of that word. That neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the State who can do so in accordance with Article 2 and, in particular, with regard to negotiations with the European Union for any other bilateral negotiations, engages security services in order to obtain the information they need. And here I must commend President Seks that he used the powers of Article 2, which we know, which means we should have the Prime Minister and the President of the State, because we know what the role and tasks of the security service are and what information they can come up with. Therefore, our further goal was to make security services work in the interests of Croatian citizens, to work in a legal way and in situations where it is possible to be public and transparent. We have seen this ourselves, and on the board, we have concluded for internal policy and national security that it is necessary to amend and supplement the Act on the work of the security services, and I think we should move on as soon as possible, because this part, this situation, this situation, is not a good situation and allows this part of the security services to deal with themselves. And a considerable number of security workers are both trained and professional and Croatian defenders and they themselves are asking for full coordination to be introduced, to know what they will do, how, that they are not only fundamental to them, that these strategies are not just the basis, that annual plan, but to know exactly how and what will be done with what situations. And now that we're on this insecure, irresponsible behavior of the President of the State, the Prime Minister, I must say that we were surprised by this irresponsible behavior that the Prime Minister and the President of the State gave a public order to the security services to go hunting for General Gotovina. I don't know if the two of them thought about it when they gave it away? Because when you give a public order now, it can be interpreted that Carla Del Ponte and the others are right, that we were doing nothing on this case, means the security community, I don't really know, I think they did a Croatian bear service and they did her another difficult situation in the negotiations with both the European Union and the Hague prosecutors. I can't understand why they went there. Is that what any of them asked for? But such a warrant is a public, ordinary man's interpretation, so he sees it as if they were doing nothing, and I know it was done and done. Now we're going to all those situations that I asked on behalf of the HSP Club to conduct a full debate. And to this day, you don't know the full truth. That's the Turk case, the Gotovina case. I was told there were no such presentations then, although the president of the state himself told Feral Tribune it was. And yesterday it was published in the Globe, so that's the case... six, with those journalists, with an affair like the Concar data leak, and we have these kinds of situations. And so one such affair is replaced by another, and not one solves everything is put under the rug. And as long as we do so and behave like this, Croatian citizens will not trust the work of security services. As long as we don't figure out how to work, who's coordinating in any way, what's the surveillance and everything. And the very fact that the President Mr. Company resigned without doing anything in the meantime, at least that we called the competition. He's talking about being back and forth, even though this is exactly what President Shakespeare says in terms of legal. But why are we stalling? Let's do a piece by piece. Because this way we don't solve anything and we're just creating a space for breaking out new affairs. No one was responsible for the fact that in the Croatian media there were signs in the press whether it was a daily or whether it was a weekly issue, secret information was published from the case, say, while Mr. Jozo Rados was the defence minister for that part of Ede we were listening to, to various other situations, no one responded, nor was there ever a established fact, nor was there any knowledge of what was to be done in these situations. Here's for all these reasons, I'm saying we managed to get 40 of us to sign this at least that this first case was solved the way it was solved, we weren't supposed to be mentioned in the media so much. It is a sad fact that this has been used as part of the election presidential campaign and that the two presidents spoke to the President of the State, the Prime Minister through the media, through newspapers, statements, and this is why we are no longer allowed to do so, and therefore we are also asking that this investigation committee does its part of the work, primarily in terms of all these sublegal regulations, which bear the designation of state secret, which many of the UDBAs are prescribed to comply with legal decisions, that we put the security services in full effect, and that we are responsible to say who will coordinate, who will direct, because the chairman of the board and the board cannot do so, can one part, but it must be a body that in daily activity. Well, it's an inadmissible variant that used to happen for the former governments, let's say, today, because every week President Tudjman received reports of security services and read them carefully. And on that basis he took appropriate measures, he knows and Mr. Luka Bebić does not have it, Mr. Jarnjak. But in this situation right now, so it means that in all situations both the President of the State and the Prime Minister in such situations as they are headed, so the heads of security would be on these issues if not every week every two weeks they could find a point of view, determining how they will work, which will work depending on what information they are talking about. So that's why we rightists are behind it, not including ourselves here in the political speculation of the presidential election of one candidate and another, that's behind it now. That story is behind us. Now let's make this part of security services become security services, do their part in the full sense of words and make citizens trust and not be citizens subject to the abuse of security services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31259	Thank you. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected representative Ivan Jarnjak, but after a break at 3:00. ... And gentlemen, we're moving on to the session. [[Home is not saved.]] The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31261	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly, the Croatian Democratic Community, the Croatian Democratic Community Club, is interested in fundamental human rights and freedoms and supports every initiative of discussion, agreement, decision, amendment of the Constitution, law to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms first and then guarantee for all citizens equally. There are no more privileged and there are no more fundamental human rights and freedoms and those that have fewer. So in this particular case that we are talking about, we need to approach in the way that we have existing regulations, existing institutes that we have, and through this, to see whether, based on the analysis of those institutes that we have, which discussed this particular case, whether or not they have established a breach of the fundamentals of human rights and freedom. If they were safe to take certain measures. So let me introduce you to the chronology of the whole event on the subject, and therefore, to conclude on your own whether there is a need for an investigative commission or not. We do not need to conclude whether the Security Service Act is good or not. Is the regulation that certain security services are working on good or not good? We don't need an investigative commission to do that. We have it settled by law and we have it resolved by our Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. However, I would like to say before I say about this particular case and say a few words about the acts we are working on today. The Security Service Act was passed in the last assembly of the Parliament. We were against it, and we are dissatisfied with some solutions. And today we are dissatisfied, and we are dealing with changes, certain changes to that Law, and we feel that it is not done, that it is not functional, and in that sense we feel that it should be completed. However, we also have a question of the rules under which he works today. He was brought by the director in the previous assembly of the Parliament. We have to say that when and when it was passed, it took a year and a half to name the head of the service. For a year and a half, the Law did not practically function, although we warned, that it would be very difficult to be appointed. A year and a half were to be appointed to the Supervisory Council, civil oversight of the service as an institution that was to oversee the service. There was no surveillance. A year before the Law was passed, while the National Security Office Act was in force, the SZUP then refused to accept any supervision of the service by law. Will we, gentlemen, when we talk about the basis of human rights and mistakes, endangering fundamental human rights, will we question that time? Because even in this request for an investigative commission, it's not said what time it's involved. So let's also examine whether there was a violation of fundamental human rights back then. I have no intention of reducing it in any way if there were fundamental human rights violations and in this case Mrs. Helena Puljiz, but it is my intention to indicate that there is no black-and-white technique in the application and operation of the service. There's no black and white technique. Not that it's for one government, that would be great and wonderful, and that for other authorities when she's in power that everything's really wrong. There are problems with security services everywhere in the world, and every day you can read a country to have certain problems in the work of those services. It is precisely because these services, no matter how or how, on whom, they have always been able and always in some way have to restrict someone’s fundamental human rights and freedoms. There is always a question of measures, and that means the law is a measure, sublegal acts are measures to be applied in this respect. But allow me, in 15.10.192004, that the President of the Security Services Supervisory Council has received a complaint from Mrs Helena Puljiz that the Council has processed and delivered the case first, delivered the conclusions, that I am not reading the whole case, delivered the conclusions to the Committee on Internal Policy, which says: "The Council's supervision in the PoA has undoubtedly established that Helena Pugliz has, in a legal manner, been called to a informed conversation in the PoA in accordance with Articles 14 and 30. Security Services Act and Article 30. Regulation on the way the anti-intelligence agency works. Secondly, the Council has clearly established in the PoA that Helena Puljiz is not invited to have an informed conversation as a person involved in the planning, preparation and organisation of activities that may endanger the national security of the Republic of Croatia, but as a person who is aware of the availability of information on this matter. Third, the supervision of the POA by the Security Services Supervisory Council has no doubt found that according to Helena Puljiz, there has been no application of the measures to covert data collection by the POA. And fourthly, the monitoring carried out by the POA and the basis of the talks held with Helena Puljiz, the Council is not able, beyond any doubt, to confirm or reject the claims made by Helena Puljiz, nor to confirm or reject the statements made by the POA staff who have made a informed conversation, which differ in part in a substantial manner in the manner of the communication." So they differ partly in content, but they completely agree on how to conduct an informed conversation. "Therefore we propose that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security consider the possibility of looking for an indication, the conduct of the competent authorities", etc. On the basis of these conclusions, the Committee may accept or reject those conclusions. At his session, which he held on 16 November, he accepted the conclusions and said: He accepted the conclusions of the POA and added, now that I am not rereading those conclusions he accepted, he adds 4, adding his conclusion and saying: the conclusions of the Security Services Supervisory Council adopted in the performance of Ms Helena Puljiz are accepted. It is the responsibility of the Office of the National Security Council, which remains another body, that is the Office for National Security, the Office of the National Security Council, that, in accordance with the legal powers and the agreed conclusion of the Security Services Supervisory Council under regular number 4, it further sheds light on the facts relating to the content and fact of the management... of the talks with Ms. Helena Puljiz. So, in order to try to remove that ambiguity, we asked the National Security Council Office to consider it here, too, so to consider and clear that conclusion 4. We sent a National Security Council request on November 17th with all the documents we had from the Security Services Supervisory Council. On November 29, 2004, we received a reply from the Council, the National Security Council Office, which can be summarised in three conclusions. In the case of Helena Puljiz, in the particular case, Helena Puljiz was not evaluated or attempts to obtain cooperation by the POA as well as the attempt to collect data on the activities of the Office of the President of the Republic and the President of the Republic himself, and that information on Željko Bagic, defined reasons and objectives identified by the specific operational action was collected during the information talks. Thirdly, professional failures of POA staff in the treatment of Helena Puljiz have been identified in the absence of a complete security check for the designated, no analysis of the previously collected data and the like has been carried out. However, these failures did not affect the legality of the conduct of POA employees towards Helena Puljiz, but were solely about failures in the working process of methodologies, the procedures of the application of legal powers. And now that you look at this whole chronology of events and conclusions taken from one side of the Security Service Supervisory Council, and on the other hand, and the Office of the National Security Council, you see that they have answered all the questions raised as problematic in determining the public interest and field of research that should be examined by the Research Commission. If you feel that such a committee will clarify all these circumstances, that such a commission will better process the whole case than it has been developed by the Security Services Supervisory Council and the National Security Council Office, then it is okay to be an investigative committee. I must say, I'm expressing a deep suspicion that I can find something new. Do you need to change the law? It's not a question of changing the law. Do you need to look at some things that need to be solved inside the rules? We need to see what these things are and the new director how much he's informed me about one task he's given to his lawyers to make such an analysis and see if the regulations that the POA employees are acting on are we talking about the POA, are the employees in any way, is that regulation in any way deviating from the rules? But we have to go back and say the following. This authority has not changed the law, nor the sub-legislative act, nor the composition of the Service Supervisory Council, nor has it affected in any way in the Office of the National Security Council, and has publicly stated by the President of the Security Service Board himself that there has never been any pressure in his work, nor even talks on these matters to make it known in which way they will act. I must therefore say that in such a situation we cannot support the formation of a commission, because this commission cannot, by our assessment, determine anything new more when it comes to the subject. We can show and ask for a new security service strategy and the work of security services in the Republic of Croatia to set priorities and objectives that may need to be changed through this strategy. But in any case, it's not good for security services to work, and even at the moment when specific jobs are to be dealt with, it's not good to constantly encourage and discuss their quality of work and possible doubt that something is constantly being done against the law. And in the end, I would just like to say that they have now received another request, and this is a request that will examine how it is possible that files, files that have neither been made in accordance with the law, which have confused the public, who have shown the false state of use of the human rights-restricting institute in the matter of listening that these files have been, in part, falsely, and when I asked them to legally process, then I was told, unfortunately everything is in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31262	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31263	A fellow Jarnjak said that everyone has a problem with intelligence services and that I should paraphrasise it said, sometimes fundamental human rights must be limited and that the question is only measures more or less. It is not true, it is deeply incorrect, it denies all the essence of the fundamental human rights that guarantee the Constitution and the law of this country. If that were the case, then we would relativize all living things, and in particular we would relativize the laws that we are making here, and that's simply inadmissible. It's not a matter of paper, it's a matter of procedure. The Croatian public here has shown a deep sensitivity and interest in clearing this up and therefore this commission needs to be cleared.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31264	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the pipeline.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31265	It is not an accurate claim from the esteemed colleague of the Jarnjak, that the commission is unnecessary because the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Council on Civil Oversight has answered all the questions raised in this particular case. In a way that they found out there were no violations of the law. You see, that's incorrect, because the Prime Minister signed the shift of the Director of the Poa because he broke the law. Well, he didn't replace him completely innocent, did he? Thus, with this shift, he indirectly confirmed that there was a violation of the law. Except that after that shift we didn't get an answer, the public didn't get an answer to all the questions about how it came to be that Podveshek deserved that shift? These questions should be answered by this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31266	Third correction by the respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31267	Your Honor. I am sorry that Mr. Jarnjak did not mention that the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minority of Exclusts has concluded that Heleni Puljiz has violated human rights. Therefore, it means that the law has been broken, and I will not even talk about the Rules of Procedure, because no one in the Croatian Parliament has seen it until today, although we as representatives and representatives of the Committee on Human Rights have asked for the Rules of Procedure of the Anti-Intelligence Agency. It is therefore difficult to discuss something that is unknown to most in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31268	My colleague, this wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote. You've been supplementing and polymizing with something that you don't think Representative Jarnjak has brought out. It was a supplement but not a correction of some incorrect claims, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31269	Well, since it's not a correction if the National Security Committee claims there was no violation of human rights, they're not competent for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31270	So report for a hearing. It's a polemic, you're plimizing. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31271	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! This isn't a debate about the Helena Pugliz case. Helene Pullis' case is closed. The summary of this case is the replacement of the director of the Anti-Intelligence Agency signed by the president of the state and the Prime Minister and I don't want to get into it. They're legally responsible for what they did. However, the Commission of Investigation dealing with actions and measures carried out by the Anti-intelligence Agency or security services in cases where human rights violations and freedoms can occur are quite different. That belongs to this House. We have often discussed what does not belong to this House and what belongs to this Parliament has not been discussed. But in an orderly Europe and we are in possession of such documents because during the past 10 months, there is still a translation of material called "Parliamentary surveillance of the security sector" which has been domesticated in practice and in application in European countries and whose holder is the Geneva Center for Democratic Control. What is most important in parliamentary surveillance? What is the basis of parliamentary oversight? There is a widespread belief that security policy belongs to the natural part of the executive authority because it has the necessary knowledge and personnel to act quickly. When it comes to carrying out security issues, parliament usually seems to be a less appropriate institution, mainly because of its often long-term procedures and incomplete approaches to the necessary expertise and data. However, as in any other policy area, Parliament has been entrusted with the task of monitoring and monitoring the executive authority. There are at least four reasons why supervision of the security sector by parliament is necessary and necessary. The first reason for the support of democracy in preventing autocratic rule is the fundamental reason why parliament needs to supervise the security sector. Second reason, no taxation without representation. Or in other words, there is no money in the security sector without this parliament's decision. It is also one of the most important elements or institutions that this parliament has. The third establishment of legal criteria for security issues. It is necessary to establish which legal criteria both in accordance with the law and in accordance with the practice and in accordance with sublegislative acts restrict and regulate the supervision of the security sector. Third or fourth, perhaps the most interesting bridge to the public. The government often does not have to be fully aware of security issues that are of utmost importance to citizens. Parliamentarians are in constant contact with the population and are easily able to establish their views. That is why gentlemen has also introduced a new institute, which is a council, a civil council for the oversight of civil services or a citizen's lawyer, something that is primarily aimed at protecting only a citizen about possible illegal actions of the security community. Of course, the challenges facing parliamentary oversight of security services are very high. First of all, there is a law on secrecy that says that something is doing national interest which is perfectly consistent with it can be declared a state secret, military secret and thus inaccessible to the general public but of course there are also four preconditions that I mentioned earlier which are very important and why the importance of parliamentary supervision should always be confirmed and this debate and this investigative commission is also for education and for the knowledge of the own powers that parliament has in the control of security services. There is no debate here and there should be no topic exclusively for Helena Pugliz. In the context of that. The debate on the norm, the debate on the role of parliament, the debate on the role of the committee are topics that are actually sublimed in the proposal to launch an investigative commission. What's the nature of intelligence? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, She's necessary. It deals with and implies data collection and analysis and such actions always require a certain degree of secrecy. On the other hand, there is, of course, possible abuse and this information that is obtained and the powers that have secret services, but that is why there is parliamentary oversight in democracy, there is a committee, there are bodies that are necessary that this "natural" that can be bad does not come into contact with citizens. Furthermore, in what way is parliamentary surveillance of security services applied in the European Union's parliaments in the modern world? How do they do that? They do it very well, and it is only good to read it if there is a chance or if it is not readable. All legal systems provide parliaments with a range of opportunities to collect data needed to monitor the policy, monitor the state administration, protect individuals or bring to light and remove any abuse and injustice. Parliaments can and must use or develop good customs and unofficial procedures supplementing these constitutional and legal means and mechanisms. Three basic and legal mechanisms are foreseen in the European Union's parliaments but also in our Parliament. It is a parliamentary debate, parliamentary issues and interpretations and parliamentary investigations or investigative committees. That's exactly how they're listed by their importance. So, the Security Services Supervisory Commission is the biggest responsibility, and some countries of top democracy have just shown on their own examples that this is done in the event of overstepping serious powers either in military conflicts or in the context of security services, or in the context of incidents that occurred in the security sector. It was initiated by the parliaments. The most recent example is the example in Canada when the Canadian security and military forces violated good customs, violated the peace forces code they had, committed abuses of their own position, then Parliament estimated it necessary to organise a public appearance in Parliament and a public parliamentary and investigative debate in which it was called publicly before the Parliament of 120 officials, employees and officers and soldiers who were deemed to have needs. The debate lasted three months. Why? Why should one parliament deal with such "marks", under quotes for three months? Because credibility was to be demonstrated, strength was to be demonstrated, but the answer to the future was to be shown that such things could not happen. And it wasn't a party parliamentary investigation, it wasn't against each other, it was a serious problem that society faced and found and came up with the answers that it now but also sets for us and everyone else as a rule, as a model for seriousness if it wanted to approach such parliamentary investigations in the security sector. And it would have been far better for Croatia's future if the President of the State and the Prime Minister had not signed what they signed, it would have been far better for all of us if, within our parliamentary opportunities that we have under our Constitution and the law, we had the strength to make it clear ourselves whether or not there were or not, and how the problems had arisen, in which way it had occurred if there had been abuse and that Parliament had investigated and that it had planted its back and that it had thus shown its credibility, then we would have been in line with the rights and customs that we have in the European Union but also in leading democracies in the world. For this reason, as well as as one of the promoters and as a Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Party, I think it is good to concentrate and to overcome animosities in terms of whether or not this investigative commission should be required, it will also be useful to consider existing legal acts, sublegal acts. Is it necessary to change something in accordance with the practice we have in these years and a half or two of the application of the new law. It will be good for us to see where our committee is, where it is the role of the council for civil oversight, where the role of this Parliament is and how it is able to treat these and similar phenomena and they will be because there are them in every society. They'll be with us. Therefore, this investigative committee does not necessarily have to be directed against anyone, it can be used to elect the place that in nature, in content, the supervision of security services belongs to, and that is the first place. That is why we support the establishment of this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31272	Thank you very much. The club of HNS representatives, PGS, respected representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31273	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we started this debate on investigative committees 24 hours ago, and we haven't even finished with the third. And all we're talking about is the reasons for and against the establishment of investigative committees. My colleagues and colleagues, in Europe and Europe, I would say a political and civilizational lie on three pillars. On a multi-party democratic system, the rule of law and respect for human rights. In this case, there is a suspicion that human rights are being violated in Croatia. The suspicion obliges us to examine, investigate, determine and try never to do it again. There is no question here whether or not we should especially after we have heard that even the committee of the Parliament could not obtain relevant information in order to be able to make a decision on this case. So I just want to let you know that all members of the HNS Club, the PGS, will absolutely support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31274	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31275	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. I absolutely support the need to establish an investigative fact-finding committee in relation to actions carried out by the anti-intelligence agency, otherwise, in the case of Helena Puljiz. Why? First of all, it's because it's what our public wants. In our political areas, intelligence has always been not very popular, so to be honest, almost hated. Since the creation of an independent Croatia, they have had a historic chance to be something else than they were in the composition, when Croatia was part of the creation of Yugoslavia. However, here is the years of experience that deny these expectations to the public. The public was simply convinced and still is that these services should serve the interests of the nation, national security, rather than endangering the rights of the individual. In fact, even endangering the rights of the individual when he violates the Law, that is, when he is the one who puts the entire national security at risk. However, this may be an opportunity to give answers and generalize what it is all these years, which has been discovered by intelligence services, how they have protected national interventions, and whether they have ever brought persecution authorities into force because of their subversive activity. And what they've been doing all these years and who they're dealing with, and who they're actually dealing with. Here we have heard from the representatives of the HDZ Club that there is no need to establish such an investigative commission because there is the National Security Council that has claimed that neither he can believe nor reject the claims made by Helena Puljiz. And that's why, because the HDZ Club doesn't see the disputed me, I personally see exactly the need because that council couldn't determine that it was this very investigative committee. But also the National Security Council office said there were violations of professional rules. And that's something that thunders at the alarm. These security services, and so do the POA, have huge powers. If they had such powers, other state bodies would, of course, be much more efficient in their work. But then exactly their rules of conduct, the rules, which are somewhere only working out legal powers here are the foundation and pillar of the legality of conducting the procedure. And when they were in the least violated, then the right to the one who was the object of their action was seriously compromised. In fact, this would be one occasion for people who are very sensitive to human rights and who also know what it is to recognize what it is to be a national interest. He's not so defined, it's a syntagma that's been left behind just to evaluate those employees, those officers there. Well, finally, I think that the Croatian public has the right to get such people that the gynaecological findings will certainly not be women of national security. And that, unfortunately, has been through the history of our security services the subject of national security interest. Otherwise this syntagma interest in national security he had some kind of developmental phase. Of course, at that higher stage, this sexuality came. But first of all, he had a pre-phase to, for example, the Hague documents, or our documents won't deliver to The Hague because it's in the interest of national security. There was also talk that even the media should lie because it is in the interest of national security. And in the interest of national security, it can only always be true. The truth therefore liberates both the individual and the nation. So this is certainly a chance when we talk about breaking any action against Ms. Helena Puljiz, who is also a journalist then and if those rights as media representatives are injured, then surely freedom or democracy has been bitten a little bit in its foundations. And that's why it's dangerous, it's dangerous when anyone's rights are violated by anyone but when a state organization does so with such enormous and powerful powers, then no one lives, so a civil servant anywhere else the radio can feel safe. And then it's infinitely more dangerous. And that's why I think it's in the interest of all of us here in the interest of citizens' trust in institutions to work really legally necessary to establish this investigative commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31276	Thank you very much. 15.39 hours have elapsed to apply for a 10-minute debate on this subject. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31277	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'm reporting for an individual debate even though I spoke on behalf of the Club to try to shed some light on the argumentable several things that have appeared so far in the debate. First, Article 83. The Security Services Act clearly states that, at the request of the President of the Croatian Parliament, at least once every 6 months, the President of the Council shall submit a report on the work of the Council. It is indisputable, and we have learned from the President of the Parliament, that the President of the Council, Mr Cvrtila, has submitted a report on the work of the Council. However, Article 78 of the same Security Service Act says that the supervision of the security services is carried out by the Croatian Parliament. So it's not the President of the Croatian Parliament. It's the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Croatian Parliament according to the Rules of Procedure has very clear powers, he represents, representing the Parliament, holding meetings, doing other tasks that the Rules of Procedure provides for him but he still does not replace the Parliament. So if the net body exercises supervision of the security services, then the report shall be submitted to that body, which shall be supervised. The surveillance of security services is not carried out by the President of the Parliament, but by this Parliament. And what good is it now that the Quartet report was sent to the President of the Parliament, and the President of the Parliament kept it in a drawer. And he doesn't come here to see us, everyone here, but we, the public, to see. Is it also the extent to which so far there have been errors in the work of intelligence services? The law therefore makes it quite clear that the debate on this report should be conducted here in the Parliament rather than in the cabinet of the President of the Parliament. It's completely out of the public. Another misunderstanding I'd like to correct, which concerns two corrections to Mr. Jarnjak's allegations. About the Council's composition. The law makes it clear that the Civil Oversight Council has a president and six members. That's what the law says. And now be careful. When the Council doesn't have a president, it means there aren't six members, then it's not complete. It's not a council. You see when a court, in court, judges a council, say, three judges, then it can't happen that two judges come to the hearing, and the third doesn't come and there's a debate. And to say so well, now one missing doesn't matter we'll hold a hearing we'll judge, we'll declare ourselves a council. There's no council unless there's three judges. There is no council to postpone the debate. There's no council of civilian security guards unless it's six members plus a president. Because the law doesn't say the council can count to six members and presidents. Then if that were the legal provision, if that were the case, it could have up to six or five members and presidents or one. But the law clearly says the council must have six members and presidents. First of all, there must be 7 of them so that some half - way majority of them can make decisions at all. This is not how decisions can be made by half the majority because they're 6 or 7 no, the Quartet is gone. It is therefore unusually important for this council to finally be established to be completed by the 7th member. And I don't know now, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament whose responsibility it is to launch the initiative, because this council is appointed by this House, I assume yours as President-in-Office of the Parliament, that you at least initiate the initiative to bring together the representatives of the clubs to get to that seventh member of the consensus, if at all possible. The President of the Parliament is asking you not to disturb him because he doesn't hear what I'm saying. Thank you. So I assume it's your Mr. President-in-Office's obligation, right, duty as you're about to launch that initiative to get to the full composition of the council. Because look what if today, if anti-intelligence agencies are doing something illegal tomorrow comes public about this council having to decide, it can't make up half the decisions. So I can split three, three. So that's one important question, and we can't put it this way. Well, they can, even without the Quartet, be very important now for the Quartet. Yeah, she wasn't frying. Let them just work. That's not how it works. Why is it important to establish this commission? Look, it's important, not because of this ping-pong thing in Parliament, the opposition and the authorities. It's important for the citizens. Citizens must be absolutely sure that this body of this Parliament will protect their civil rights if security services threaten them. They must see the protector in us. But not only must they see in us protectors we must be that protector. We have to be. Well, in order for us to send such a message to the citizens, don't be afraid, sleep quietly, if they try, if they try to violate your rights, we're here to protect you. Here we are. Mr. Markov, speaking on behalf of the HSS, said this case was resolved by the shift of Podbevšek. I wouldn't agree with that. The replacement of Podbevšek is one recognition of evidence that there have been violations of human rights and illegality in the anti-intelligence agency's handling. Well, you wouldn't be the prime minister, so you wouldn't have replaced Podbevsek if he acted perfectly right and legally. Well, I don't believe it. So I trust our prime minister. I believe his decision has been explained, justified, since all the conditions for the Podbevšek to be changed have been met. So why? Well, not because he was doing well. Or because he had one of these or the color of his eyes. Because he was wrong in running the service, that's why he's been removed. Well, now that we're on that shift, we don't have a whole series of answers right now, we don't have a whole series of answers to questions about how these illegalities happened. Is that Podbevšek's orders or is it someone under him who ordered it? Is that order that Helena Pullizz is being heard orally or written? Any leads on that? Was she part of some broader processing or was she directed directly at a journalist? Why was Helena Puljiz even questioned, what was she going to find out? What's most important is, is it going to happen to another reporter tomorrow? Well, that's what the public is interested in. Well, that's what the press is after. Well, look, if it was Helena Pugliz yesterday, it could be me tomorrow. Why don't some reporter, why don't I know Mislav Bagu tomorrow, keep him locked up in some room for five hours and interrogate anything they can think of. So journalists want an answer to see how that came about. That has to be made clear, so it can't remain unclear. Then, we need to see if the POA was used for political purposes. 'Cause watch out, if they dared to come across Helena Pugliz to some compromising possible matter for the President of the Republic, if they dared to go against the President of the Republic, then tomorrow they could dare go against any of us. And yet we are less of a function than the President of the Republic. So I can make Shimu Krasic tomorrow because they won't like that the State Audit found something, so let's use the POA against Šima Krasic. Those are inadmissible things. Citizens are sensitive to that. You know, those questions need to be cleared up. You must know who he is, you must know how he is, you must know why and then the one who made the mistakes must answer and we must send a clear message through this investigative committee. We're against it. If the culprits happen, they must be punished. Citizens have the right to know how this happened, they need to know how these were punished and what's more important, they need to know if it's going to happen again, and they're going to start an investigative commission in some other case. All circumstances will be questioned, but you, as citizens of this country, must and may sleep peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31278	Thank you very much. You see, colleague Stazic, this law with which you have now rightly pointed out certain illogicalities under the Security Services Act, the President of the Civil and Civil Watch Council is obliged to submit a report to the President of the Croatian Parliament and he delivered it to me but for the first six months, the last six months of 2003. He signaled it with the code "state secret." The state's secret can only be taken down by whoever set it up. I can't take it off. It cannot be taken down as a whole by the Parliament and this law is such that it simply obliges the Committee on Civil Oversight and the President to deliver it to the President of the Parliament and I have nothing else but to keep it in the safe by certain rules as a state secret. Secondly, the same and only if the chairman of that committee informs me that through civilian supervision they have established illegalities then I have a duty and a duty and an assessment to assess whether to put it to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security or to the plenary session of the Parliament. These are the illogicalities of that law where I can only get to know him if he's not in it and in this it's not what I've won for the last six months of 2003 whether there's been a broken law anywhere, that they've found that the law has been broken. But I also get the president of the Republic and the Government and certain ministers almost every day reports and information from all three intelligence agencies, and intelligence agencies and anti-intelligence agencies and military intelligence agencies as well as the same sign of "state secret", "military secret," and they can get to know that. Not in the basket, but in the safe, Damier. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Shima Lucin on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31279	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! It's true what you said that the law that is now in force has in these two years of its operation shown its shortcomings. But I don't think that law is bad at all. Finally, the law was positively declared by the Council of Europe when it was adopted. But I'm going to take one chance now and say that I also don't think it's good, I've read it in the media and heard it, I don't know if it's true, let's say the new law is going to write a new director of the service. It's like telling kids in the first or second grade of elementary school that they're putting together a program themselves, a school program that will work. In fact, now it has proved that the regulations that have been written for themselves, or the service in question, have a number of shortcomings. However, what I wanted to say. I think the Croatian Parliament is one of the few parliaments in Europe that has never seriously dealt with the work of any single service in its history. Maybe I'm wrong, but you won't find another one or two. Not even when we were discussing some laws, or when we were discussing some kind of national security strategy. And it's actually one of the reasons why we're going through what's happening to us, that girls have different data, that we're having different affairs. And I think now is an opportunity, actually, this commission to try to say something about it. The question of why, after the shift of the director of the service and after everything that has gone on outside, it makes sense to discuss this case in this House. There is because only this House can, or the President of this Parliament, ask the President of the State and the Prime Minister by law for detailed reports on this case and I am convinced that they know much more than we do in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and all those who have dealt with this case. And I think the point is that we should actually deal with this so this doesn't happen again. You'll say yes, he's arguing on the board. But there is another practice in the world, not in Europe but in the world, which is, and even in our neighbouring countries, which is, as a rule, the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security from the opposition ranks just to strengthen the supervision of the work of this segment of secret services and this work they cover in the sphere of national security. That is why I once again plead on all of you to accept this investigative commission because, as I said, it does not contribute to any other policy, nor to any other economic lobby, but actually contributes to the interests and interests of the Republic of Croatia or its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31280	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31281	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Here is certain that each of us MPs in this assembly supports all activities that can contribute to the protection of human rights and freedoms stemming from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We all agree that it is necessary to do everything possible to ensure that human rights violations and freedoms in the Republic of Croatia do not exist or that this possibility is reduced to the least possible measure. I am convinced that the proposal for a decision to set up the Research Commission to determine facts regarding actions and measures implemented by the Anti-intelligence Agency and, in particular, in the case of a journalist, Helena Puljiz, does not contribute to this objective. I think it only actually produces a continuation of media inscriptions and creates an impression of uncertainty and mistrust in services that carry out important tasks for the national security of the Republic of Croatia. Security services must do their job in peace and without the pressures that make their work difficult. The legal action of the Anti-Intelligence Agency will not contribute to any investigative committee but to the amendment and addition of the Security Services Act and the Regulation on the conduct of the POA which is unscheduled and leave opportunities for certain abuses. I remind you once again that we in the Republic of Croatia have institutions dealing with the supervision of secret services, and as we know about the Council for Civil Control of Secret Service and the Office of the National Security Council, which is a professional body, which is certainly more competent than the parliamentary, parliamentary investigative body proposed here. Then let the competent institutions do their job and we, as parliamentary representatives, do our part of the job, do the law, and thus contribute to preventing human rights violations and legal work of the security services. Since this topic is actually consummated and the time failed to establish the Research Commission is being kept unnecessary and possibly harmful. It cannot be and is not a public interest that the entire Croatian public discusses and deals with the smallest details of individual investigations and operations of particular national interest, which is why many security service people put their heads in a bag and by publishing and delivering certain information to the public, the secret service becomes public but thus puts many employees at risk. About that... We're taking care of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite the warning from fellow Stazic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, that everyone who thinks otherwise wants to cover something up, I think otherwise, and I think this commission cannot be in favour of the legal work of the Anti-Intelligence Agency and other security services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31282	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31283	It's an incorrect quote from colleagues that the establishment, that the establishment of this commission, would be harmful, because what are we? We are the Supreme Legislative Body, through us the people accomplishes, expresses their sovereignty. And all that was going on about this was that, to a large extent, it went up to 80% in all those studies that were in different shows, etc., people were interested in this question because they thought that in a certain way they might be violating human rights. That's why I don't see any harm in expressing the will of the people through the establishment of this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31284	And as far as I was listening, and I listened carefully to Agent Culka, he said, and perhaps he expressed his opinion, perhaps it was harmful. Maybe. So, yeah. Mr. Caine, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31285	Mr. President, you as a prominent sports worker, as president of the Croatian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31286	That's where you're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31287	You are aware that during today's day in Tunisia the game between the Republic of Croatia and the SR Yugoslavia is about to begin That game is [[You're a little premature.]] [[You're a little premature. You're a little early looking at the clock!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31288	The game starts at 6:15.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31289	Yeah, but by the time we get home and stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31290	What are we going to do now to interrupt the session for the game?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31291	After this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31292	The proposal is very, very interesting. Dear Representative Frano Piploic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31293	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the two days we've been discussing committees, I say, for two days we've been discussing commissions and I'm still staying at what I said yesterday that we have far more important and important things to deal with than these issues that we've been raising these two days. Let's just say, it comes to my mind now why we're not, we don't, we don't, we don't want, we can't, I don't know what the reason is further, we start a commission that's why so many Croatian defenders have killed us. Last night I watched on TV, a picture with the Croatian defender and the whole story of that Croatian defender who got sick from PTS, and he cut his head off with a motorcycle. Isn't that worth it, let's say that the question is that things like that and things like that are being discussed and not these issues that are being raised here right now. It's not really clear to me how hard my colleagues have been trying, which is actually the topic here. Is this about the topic of functioning and the desire to put secret services under control of the position or opposition, the authorities or I don't know anyone else, or is this about a colleague, Helena Puljiz, who, as a medium, puts himself at the heart of things and who wants to actually do one reckoning? I'd like to base my exposure here on somehow putting my colleague Helena Puljiz in protective custody. ... I'd be discussing a journalist who needs protection because he didn't put himself in this position, someone else put himself in this position in the context of the functioning of our security, security services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Pugliz affair has entertained and shaken Croatia for months. The result of these needs are first troubles and media... Miss Helene Pugliz, then one detachment and destabilising the Security Services Supervisory Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we know, Vlatko Cvrtila offered to resign as president. In the end, what many wanted was resolved by the director of Podbevšek. And finally, with the agreement of the President of the State and the Prime Minister, we got a new director. We expected that the tails of this affair would be resolved within the service itself and within the people who responsiblely, I hope, would do their duty. But it doesn't seem to be the end of it. I say, we now have a proposal of five clubs to set up a commission. It emphasizes here what everything should be done. I wouldn't read it now, you all saw it. I'd like to ask if anyone asked her colleague Helena Puljiz if she could still use her name like this, if she were to use it, I'd ask all of us a further question, do the rights still violate the rights of Helena Puljiz? Is this how her freedoms may be threatened by the dignity of a person, or the dignity of a profession? Why am I asking all these questions? In public, one perception was created about Miss Helena Pugliz, who is a journalist equally spy for some and for others is a traitor journalist. Maybe someone won't agree with what I said, but try to listen to any of the public, and you'll see that they've gotten similar. My suggestion was to have respected colleagues and colleagues who gave this advance to withdraw this request because it harms Miss Helena Puljiz herself and is also harmful to Croatian journalism as a whole, because nothing new will be found out. And when this commission is established that you all don't know together. I think we should stop that politicians should stop defending Helena Pugliz because they got her into this. If it continues to insist on this commission, it seems to me that some questions should be answered, in my opinion the most important is this first item, so is the previously requested consent of journalist Helena Pugliz for an informed conversation and has been informed of her rights. It's a matter of finding out if she agreed to it. It's the point of things to me, and everything else down here is done. However, with what is yet to be learned. If it insists on the commission, has Helena Puljiz been sent to President Mesic's office exclusively with the task of reporting to the Croatian public about the work of the office and President Mesic himself. Or she got some extra jobs with that job, from who and when and why. That should be the task of this same commission. Furthermore, Helena Puljiz is not the only journalist to report from President Mesic's office. I think that if we insist that it should be determined why human rights have been violated, that is, why human rights and freedoms of others have not been violated, that is, whether they are less confidential to one than Helena Puljiz. Or why others are not invited to a informed conversation. I think there could be a series more, a series of things done, and once again I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues it would be really nice to take it back. And if we want to discuss the functioning of security services there are a thousand ways that we can discuss it far with less passion, not involve others in this game. Because when we see these discussions that we're having these two days about these committees, which is more and more requests to set up investigative committees, it's getting less and less between us. And it certainly looks like the citizens' mistrust in us is growing. If you are already insisting on these committees, I would add and make my contribution and suggest that a day of commission day be established within the Croatian Parliament, let's say the day of the investigation committees of the Croatian Parliament. No, I leave that to other colleagues and colleagues. And here I would no longer like to talk about it anymore, only after my colleague Kovacevic asked two days for an answer to one question when it came to corruption, asked one question, asked him if there was any person responsible for corruption in Croatia. I answer to him so I know one case. One aunt Martha, who replied that she had abused the position of cleaning woman in a Croatian company, because she took an unauthorized box of blue radios and took them home to wash the laundry at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31294	Thank you very much. We have one replica and three corrections of an incorrect quote. First replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31295	I'm a colleague of Pipplitch's. You said it was not clear to you that the purpose of this committee was to protect Helena Pugliz or control the POU. And I think after all this discussion of yours, there's still a lot of things that don't make sense to you. Not just that one. You're saying this affair was our society dating. There's nothing fun about it. That's where the scary things happened, not the fun stuff. You're talking about Helena Pugliz as a spy reporter. You're saying she was sent by someone to the president's office. That's where he's spying. You're saying it's the ones who are looking for this commission right now. One thing you said exactly, you say the more commissions it's less trust here in us. I think that after this debate of yours I don't know if it's in direct transfer, but after this debate of yours, those citizens who fear for their civil rights must lose every confidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31296	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31297	What I'm got, what I said and don't please use the jokes I said what I said. [[Speaker not enabled]] I think it's very clear and understandable. My colleague Helena Pugliz has been dragged into this, through politicians, through politics, and you cannot convince me or the Croatian public that it is not true. And it would be good to respect every person, including her, if they were not further abused in this Croatian Assembly. If we have the courage to discuss Croatian security services, let us discuss this because this is not the first time that this has been discussed. In the past term, the newspaper was buzzing over the authority and the struggle of the president of the state, the government, over security control.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31298	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31299	Well, it's absolutely incorrect that it would be harmful to establish a commission for Mrs. Helena Puljiz herself. So she wondered if she had agreed, or if she would have agreed. So that's exactly the commission, so we need to determine if she's agreed to what she's involved in right now by the POE agents. And that's exactly what they're counting on Helena Puliz to keep her mouth shut. And you don't have to defend her from herself. She won't shut up, you know. And politics never took advantage of her. By the way, the public gave her credit for an act of civil courage, that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31300	You've pollemized, but you haven't corrected the exact quote. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Marin Jurjevic please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31301	It is incorrect that counterparts Piplovic said that the establishment of this commission harms Croatian journalism as a whole, as he said. First of all, this commission is not established for any segment of society or for journalists and journalism. It is a potential suspicion that the fundamental human rights of a citizen of a Croatian society are at stake. And that is why this commission is established if it is established. And that it would harm journalism, I doubt it. We can only use it like we all do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31302	Also a court of law, not a correction. The third is the gentleman for correcting the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31303	Mr. Vice-President, I will only correct the incorrect allegations or the failure of Mr. Piplovic in which he argued that the Council did not discuss the suicides of Croatian defenders, in fact, the Committee on War Veterans united the session on their request, together with the Health Committee, in which the most important experts of Croatian health participated, all representatives of the associations when we discussed these factors affecting so many suicides in Croatia, so we also brought guidelines to help these unhappy defenders who actually experienced and experienced the horrors of war.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31304	For the sake of accuracy, I must say that Mr. Piplić did not claim that it had not been discussed, but he suggested that an investigative committee should be established in connection with this, and that is how much you did not understand. Okay. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31305	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd really like to say it briefly, but here in these few interventions I explained my position. As you can see, I'm in favour of establishing this commission. I don't see any reason why we who are all together, regardless of the political parties' mass of times, have shown that we are sensitive when human rights are being violated and when it comes to any violence against people by other individuals, when we have reacted to violence against children, women and any other, threatened groups when we have been able to talk about it here and all agree on it, I don't see any reason why when we suspect that there is possibly an organized way to violate human rights that we are against the establishment of this commission. Why am I talking organized? Because, to a certain extent, if it were to prove true, it would be possible to say that there was a threat to the fundamental human rights of Mrs. Puljiz that the state is partly behind it because it is an institution that is closely connected to the state and that is why we have to be sensitive to it and besides, that is why the Croatian public is sensitive to it. So any kind of violence has always come across a uniform conviction here and I find it so strange that we would now hypothetically talk about that if we set up this investigative commission that we would harm the interests of intelligence services, security services, etc. After all, these services are called security services. They should guarantee our safety, not endanger that security. If anyone has compromised Mrs. Puljiz's safety. That is why I think it is quite logical that in the situation where in the Croatian public this topic has achieved such a high degree of interest and solidarity in the protection of the interest of the lady, the fundamental human rights of Mrs Pugliz if she was threatened that we would be any obstacle to establishing a commission that would ultimately examine and the normal thing then respond in accordance with these conclusions. I would just say that indeed in every society and no society is immune from the individual being threatened and organised sometimes by the state, etc. It's not unusual, we don't always have to look at it alarming, but it's safe to react if we even notice the slightest sign that it's actually happening. That's why I support this, and I don't see any reason why everyone wouldn't support it, regardless of the party differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31306	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31307	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's before I start my debate, I'm sorry that Mr. Piploic took it as his right to be a lawyer for Helena Puljiz without her consent. I must say, as chairman of the Human Rights Subcommittee, she came to us to help her, so we didn't drag her into anything. Just because she reported herself to the Civil Watch Council what happened to her, I don't think that in that context she was involved in the whole affair, but that she wanted to help others who may have also been in the same situation, or she'll be in this situation today and tomorrow. I wouldn't want to reopen the Helena Pugliz case myself, because everything's already been said and known in public. I must say that myself and my club support the formation of such a committee of fact-finding events in the case of journalist Helena Puljiz, and we certainly support it because we can take concrete measures on this example so that this will never happen again to anyone in the Republic of Croatia. This is now a good time to, for example, the journalist Helena Puljiz to help all those who might be in similar situations on this case. We must be aware of the time in which we live, that our intelligence community does not have a professional relationship that is suitable for European values, and for these very reasons we need to help them to improve and transform as soon as possible and work for which they are paid. But to go back to a specific case. I have to say that we're in the IDS in some way not letting the Helena Pugliz case slide under the carpet. Yes, as chairman of the Human Rights Subcommittee, I called that committee, where Helena Pugliz described exactly what happened to her in the Anti-Intelligence Community. The most ridiculous were the claims made by the National Security Committee that journalist Helena Puljiz had not violated human rights. It did not occur to them that they were not competent to do so, and that they could indeed have wanted to solve the case by asking the Human Rights Committee to make it manifest. In preparation for the meeting of the Human Rights Subcommittee, many problems have been identified as being present with regard to the intelligence community. For example, as advocates, we were able to gain insight into the rules on which agents should operate, which is suspected of not being in conformity with the law and that agents have the space to do as they please. An example works. From misrepresentation to not keeping a record, a record or being recorded and, of course, without a court order. After the finding of the Committee, or the Subcommittee on Human Rights and thereafter the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Cvrtila saw what was happening and then resigned. Here, the crucial question is how to protect an individual from the repression of civil servants who hide behind institutions, of course, so that they can hide their will and their inadequacy. In the IDS, we cannot agree that in the 21st century we are going back to police Stalinist methods to intimidate citizens and not to think of anyone from such institutions and to report when they are acting illegal. There may also be other service examples of how people hide behind institutions and how methods are applied that are not suitable for this time, e.g. ask citizens to be fortune tellers, report to whoever didn't give you the bill, report a neighbor you don't like if he steals electricity or something like that. All so arbitrary without any too much evidence. And all of you citizens who are in this position of snitches will be fine and nothing will happen to you. But otherwise, if you have civil courage, like Helena Puljiz, to report some bureaucrat behind an institution, it's a message, you're not going to have a good time because we're still little gods here. And we can do you harm anyway and make your life miserable. Well, let me finish. The fact is and has been found, human rights violations have been found, the Human Rights Committee has found that Heleni Puljiz has violated human rights because of unprofessional work, and we welcome the fact that President Mesic and the Prime Minister have replaced the responsible person from the Anti-Intelligence Agency. Thus, the responsible persons in this country admitted that the Agency had not acted in accordance with the law. I think we should take this opportunity to comply with the Anti-Intelligence Agency's regulation with the law and advocate that our country be civilised, civilised, who will always fight to protect human and civil rights. We in IDS welcome the formation of such a commission. And I appeal to everyone, if we really want to have a cultural and civilised state, that everyone supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31308	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. It's too strong a word you used in the debate, "police constitutional methods". There is no argument that this has been argued and I ask that such qualifications, especially if we do not know enough about it yet, be used in this House, especially if you are calling for methods not to be appropriate this time. That qualification is not suitable for this time either. And five minutes in the name of... I didn't see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation? Or, or? ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31309	Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague, Dorotea, who, when she said that I, was standing there as my colleague, Helena Puljiz. I immediately said, quote,... I'm a journalist and I'm talking about a profession and a colleague to sort of defend and all that stuff I was saying in that sense, and I said I wouldn't talk about security services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fundamental question is, dear colleagues and colleagues, whatever you say and say, how to protect journalists from politicians. Nonstop journalists, police want to put journalists under their hands, which is understandable because through journalists they can get to the public. Here, that's what I was talking about and how to keep them, help them keep their ethical principles and professional standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31310	Five minutes on behalf of the club, Mr. HDZ, Mr. Agent Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31311	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee did not establish and decide that there were no violations of fundamental human rights but is there, and the conclusions were made by two bodies. It's the Civil Surveillance Council and it's the National Security Council Office. That there was no illegal treatment for Miss Helena Pugliz. So there was no illegal act. These are the conclusions that I have presented, which all the members of the Committee have been given insight, and on this basis the Committee has only decided to accept these conclusions. He accepts those conclusions that they've said, with all those shortages or whatever they're carrying with them. Secondly, when it comes to parliamentary practice in Europe, it is true that in most countries in Europe, the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as they call it from the opposition. However, I would like to remind you that in the previous session of the Parliament and the president and vice-president of the Committee, they were from the majority, and that this majority decided to be from the majority, while the vice president was from the opposition, which is already one step forward. And I agree that there is probably a future in this, and it is certain that the future is that the president of this parliamentary committee is one day out of opposition. And the third thing, if we really want and have a good intention to form the Committee but not on one service, but let us throw a commission that will examine the state of security services in Croatia, all services because all services have opportunities, have the opportunity to come into a situation to violate fundamental human rights and the foundations of freedom. They have these options. Therefore, if we want to see what level of democratisation it is in the conduct of these services, how high-quality, how much they have done so far, what should we do in these services, let's do this, but let's throw it, and we are tasking the National Security Council to prepare such a material. That the National Security Council is who it will be as a proposal. Whether it'll be the Committee, whether it'll be a parliamentary debate, we see how, but let's get all the services into it and discuss it. And a third thing. A representative of the HSS said it had nothing to do with Helena Puljiz's case. It is mentioned as a basis and a cause and requires a resolution, a clarification of certain procedures for Mrs. Helena Puljiz and for what both institutions have undoubtedly established. This means the Civil Surveillance Council and the National Security Council Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31312	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. ... And on behalf of the Proposer? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why didn't you answer? ... Here you are, on behalf of the proposer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31313	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of the group of 40 MPs who have applied for the establishment of this Commission of Investigation for the debate. We believe that this debate has shown the justification of the demands of us 40 MPs on the need to establish this commission. Truth be told, we have achieved one part of the goal, that the issue of the responsibility of the Director of the PoA is resolved, but many other issues remain which are contained here and which should be explored in terms of restoring the trust of Croatian citizens in the work of security services. And in terms of full surveillance of civil service. Therefore, we appeal to all MPs to support the need to set up this commission, and to say the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security followed the proposal of Mr Sima Lučin, me and Mr Markov, neither the Parliament nor the Committee would be brought into this situation. Because at the 1st session of the Committee, we suggested that helena Puljiz be investigated until the end of the case. In another case, too, the Committee went on to give an opinion under Article 43(5) that there was no room for the resolution of the Director of the PoA of Irregularity and thereafter the Prime Minister co-signed the part with the President of the State. Therefore, there is a full justification to argue that neither the Committee nor the Croatian Parliament would be brought into these situations anymore, so that citizens have confidence and that security services work under the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31314	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31315	Well, it's never happened that I'm being extremely serious that the debate on the revision, conversion and privatisation is not being followed in front of television cameras. Finally, finally, it is known to all of us that by the basis of the reported number of MPs this point cannot end during today. And therefore, due to some other circumstances, it would be opportunized to conclude today's work, I think it's a consensus of all the paramentary clubs and to continue tomorrow morning. And no one will blame us for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31316	Like this. First, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't get the word, you started talking on your own. That's number one. Number two. We continue the debate because it's common to be up to 6, 7 o'clock and the other thing, they can't wait to talk about how we interrupt the debate in the Assembly for watching the game. And one big part of you would tell the press.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31317	Third proposal, Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts concerning Actions and Measures implemented by the Anti-intelligence Agency in cases where there can be illegal restrictions on human rights and freedoms and, in particular, in the case of journalist Helena Puljiz. The debate is closed. We also vote first on a proposal to set up an investigative commission as a previous issue. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find this proposal not accepted because it was voted by 39 for, 4 abstentions and 62 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31318	Therefore, we continue, continue and move on to the 6th item of the agenda: - (a) The report on the work on the implementation of the audit and conversion and privatisation; (b) Report on the audits of the conversion and privatisation carried out; There is the State Auditor, Ms Šima Krasic, introductory.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have yet another report on the work of the State Audit Office on the revisions of the transformation and privatisation we have called the final report. This report ended at the end of last year and we think that we have accomplished all the tasks assigned to the State Audit Act on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, Amendments to the Law on State Audit. The work report on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation shall contain a description of the audit procedures and criteria for the assessment of the conversion and privatisation procedures. In particular, the tasks resulting from the provisions of the Law on the Revision of Conversion, Privatisation and related to the State Audit Office and their implementation are listed. The office achieved, carried out and analysed the expected, expected by law-makers and analysed the results of the process of conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia. The effects of the audit have also been recorded, perhaps we have not fully achieved what they expected from us, applicants because their demands were far higher and expected that the state audit could take certain actions, measures that were not given to us in the task, the annulment of conversion, the return of jobs, etc. We only did what was in our jurisdiction, which was given to us on a mission. The report shall contain information on the application of Article 17. The law on the revision, conversion and privatisation, i.e. information on the number of applications submitted according to the characteristics of irregularities identified, is a matter of criminality. In addition to the above mentioned work report, complete audit reports were submitted for 287 companies carried out during this reporting period. Today's report also includes individual reports on the revision of conversion and privatisation on 7 942 pages. Here I can only stress that a total of so far audited subjects and what we have given to this House, or what is on our CD is given 27 125 pages. Reports shall be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Revision, Conversion and Privatisation Act and, in accordance with the rules of the audit profession, shall contain all information on the basis of which an assessment of the conversion and privatisation procedures in a particular audit entity is possible, i.e. all relevant actions in the post-preparation and privatisation proceedings are described. In all reports, in the case of an audit of the irregularities identified, the legal provisions of which have been violated are set out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State Audit Act has been made clear to all audit entities on the responsible persons as the audited entities may be shown on those findings and that the findings are unequivocally confirmed. The audit procedures as always have been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the State Audit Act, the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation and the international audit standards applicable to State audits. Since the entry into force of the Law of Conversion and Privatisation by the end of September 2004, a revision of conversion and privatisation has been carried out in 1006 social enterprises at the request or in accordance with the provisions of Articles 6 and 7. The law on the revision of conversion and privatisation, which means that the audited companies have also been rescheduled according to government decisions, companies in which a claim by the Ministry of Finance or Resuscitation is described by banks and the insurance of savings deposits, i.e. a write-off of pension funds or some other... an institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The revision of the coupon privatisation process covers 471 companies of which 276 have not been requested to review conversion and privatisation. The process of replacing shares between the Croatian Privatisation Fund, pension funds and other legal or natural persons involved in the exchange of shares with the aim of improving the quality of their portfolio was also revised, covering 770 companies from which 274 were not required for a specific revision of conversion. Audit of the management procedures of 28 companies. An audit of the sale of shares and shares in the portfolio of a pension disability fund covering 572, two transactions relating to 498 companies. This revision of the procedures for the sale of shares and shares from the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which refers to 246 companies. Since the entry into force of the Law until the end of this report period, the total of 1550 companies have been covered from 2001 to the end of 2004. Total share capital by audit of the companies concerned, at the time of conversion was 24.4 billion marks and at the time of the revision of 20.5 or 16.10% less than the time of conversion. At the time of conversion, the companies mentioned had 635 thousand 373 employees and at the time of revision of 248 698 respectively, 386 675 employees less than the number of employees at the time of conversion. According to the data and development programmes for 1556 audited companies 106 already showed employees' surpluses in the development programmes and they also had aged equipment and technology in 307 companies and that it should be renewed further. Each report shall state the reasons for the reduction in the number of employees in a particular company. The objectives of the development programme have been achieved by 241 companies or 15.49%. In part, 319 companies or 20.5 did not achieve 996 companies or 64.01%. Furthermore, of the 1556 audited companies at the time of conversion 85 was located in the occupied area and 312 in the war-related area. The total war damage of 1.5 billion DM was shown in the figures on the assessment of the value of 237 social enterprises, and 572 companies were, I say, companies, because at the time, social enterprises were in the process of assessing the design of the evaluation of values valorising market losses due to war events. During the previous reporting period, 157 audit applications have been processed and 1357 applications have been submitted at the time of the law, i.e. the entry into force of the law and the granting within 60 days for applications to be lodged. At the same time as the companies participating in the conversion in accordance with the provisions of Article 6. The audit law covers 347 owned companies, and since the application of the law, it has been covered by an ownership company. According to data from the court register, a bankruptcy procedure in 345 companies is ongoing or 22.17%. In total, 75 companies or 4.8% were assessed as being converted and privatised in accordance with the rules, and the State Audit Office issued an opinion in accordance with Article 19. The law on audit, conversion and privatisation. The revision of some 1556 companies identified 1936 irregularities, and of the total number of these irregularities, 1215 did not signify any criminal acts under the Law on the Conversion of a Social Enterprise and the Law on Privatisation, since sanctions were not prescribed. Out of the sales, of the remaining 721 irregularities for which criminal acts are prescribed, the State Audit Office has filed 71 criminal charges in the form of reports in agreement with the State's Attorney's Office 107 and has previously been submitted by other institutions 93 criminal acts for the same parts, and in agreement with the attorney's office and other institutions have not submitted any specific applications. After the adoption of the new Law on Issues and Transport of Securities 203 irregularities no longer have the character of punished works, which they had at the time. The evaluation of the value of the company established that the underlying capital of the companies that were created after the conversion was less than the total of DM 965 million. It refers to assets that were not included also refer to an estimate of the value of undertakings where no specific assets were included to overestimate the liabilities of revaluation firms of 356 million. That no construction facilities are included in the assessment, a surface of 89 thousand square meters. It was also found that about 2,77 million square metres of land was not included. At the end of this presentation, I would only point out once more that the Office has carried out the task assigned to it by the Law on State Audit and the Law on Audit, Conversion and Privatisation by implementing these audits. In such a way that facts relating to the conversion and privatisation of each individual entity are unequivocally established. That it is established whether the conversion and privatisation process has been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules, and we are reporting this high house, and that we have given an assessment, whether the privatisation objectives have been achieved by the provision of Article 1. The Privatization Act. These are just some brief notes, and I think there's a lot of data in our reports, and all those looking for further explanations, we're here to give further explanations. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31320	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. There is no representative of the government. The government gave an opinion. There is no representative of the government. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31321	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, what I'm saying is, I'm pleased with the way in which the State Review final work was reported, which started its job seriously in 2001, and if I understand this report well with these 287 analyses and the results that we have now received, they have done their part of the work under that law. When this Law came to pass and the process of review began, and I want to believe that this law was passed not in the interest or because of only parliamentary deputies who were then in this house, but also because of the great expectation of citizens and the interest of citizens to correct irregularities, to correct injustices, and to punish those who have done something illegal. This was anticipating and discussing the need to adopt such a law on the revision, conversion and privatisation lasted several years, and when it was adopted, the hope of a large part of the country's citizens was awakened that the impact of the revision would be exactly that. That the revision will manage to correct irregularities, that the revision will correct injustices, and that those who have violated laws, whether it is offences or criminal acts, will be sanctioned. 1556 companies are covered by the review in the final phase of 287, and with this we have brought the job to an end and probably more about the results of the audit will not be necessary, that Mrs Krasic informs this Assembly. I, reading this document, paid more attention to what the applicants expected when they taught the State Audition. In the first group of 377 previous owners of nationalised and confiscated assets that requested and submitted a request for a revision of certain cases of conversion and privatisation, they expected, an annulment of conversion and privatisation because they did not participate in the process of conversion and privatisation. They were expecting a review of the administrative act, so the Privatisation Fund's solution to the transformation itself and the decision-making process. They expected to determine the right of ownership of the property taken from previous owners, and then examine the validity of the legal acts on which the property was seized by former owners, the natural return of the property. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. So that was 377 I guess people or a group of citizens who went to the State Audit and asked for an audit of a particular case. And these were their expectations. Further reports of the State Audit show that the largest number of these expectations were not met by the citizens because it was neither her work nor could they engage in any of these expectations that were listed in the application because it was the subject of other regulations and other bodies that had to do so. If, therefore, the State audit could not meet these expectations of the citizens whether those applicants would be satisfied after the audit procedure has been completed. I don't know. In the second group of those who have submitted as many as 601 requests for review, there are small shareholders, shareholders' associations and trade unions that have had their next expectations. Unreal assessment of the value of social capital, sale of assets after conversion, poor business policy of administration, payment of shares by the company's assets, neglect of small shareholders and layoffs to employees, and repayment of funds paid for shares. So, when the workers paid off the shares in the meantime, they got fired, lost that part of the money and no shares and jobs, and eventually, without companies or perhaps with the company in bankruptcy. This is about their expectations of those injustices, irregularities and the successful course of conversion later on, so that the State audit could have done with those 1,000 and some irregularities of which thousands and 200 could not be sanctioned or initiated because at the time of the matter, they had no sign of criminal or criminal content. They found that there were eight cases reported, they filed three reports, nine reports in the form of reports to the State's Attorney's office, I suppose, and one report for a violation and found that they discovered 38 cases where the statute of limitations occurred on all elements of Croatian legislation. So 38 out of date and 21 initiating such a procedure. I have tried to remember even now to consult with some colleagues whether you could list at this time what with the State Audit and the Office has no matter how many judicial judgments have been brought before Croatian courts in connection with the crimes committed in the conversion and privatisation. Probably relative to the number. I don't believe it's a secret. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Probably relative to the number of analyses and revisions would be zero points and a few more zeros. I was also told about the fact that the State Audit Office issued, or after reviewing it, in accordance with the law and specific opinions, which found that, after the revision, the complete procedure and the conversion and privatisation were fully in line with the law. And if I understand these 75 special opinions correctly, it refers to all of the thousand 550 audits carried out. So, a thousand 556 audits and they found 75 cases when after the revision they could say but just about everything and conversion and privatisation were made according to all the laws of this country. I think this information deserves us to repeat it several times and remind ourselves of the expectations of the citizens who had the requests for review. And I'm going to end up with this piece of the very conclusions that are given in writing and remind me of some figures. When it ended or lasted, the value of these thousand 556 companies was 24.5 billion German marks. At the time of the audit, between 2001 and 2004, the value of these same companies was lower by 4 billion German marks or 16%. So four billion marks. It's not exactly big money, because we can obviously lose far more money than these 4 billion marks. In these thousands of 556 companies, 635 thousand workers worked and when the revision finished their work there were only 386 thousand workers less than they had jobs when they went into the process of conversion and privatisation. The bankruptcy ended or the bankruptcy process for 345 companies is a fifth if I'm not about to be wrong about this thousand 556. The value of assets that did not enter the estimated value of these companies is impossible to convert into value but Mrs Krasic said it was 2 million 774 thousand square meters of land and 89 thousand square meters of objects. Those who hid that land and these facilities had to have large warehouses that no one had seen and ever found them until this audit. Of the thousand 556 subjects, the objectives of the development programme achieved 241 companies or 15%. 319 of them or 20% achieved some of the objectives and 996 of them or 64% did not achieve the objectives of the development programme. So probably, and therefore, those 385 thousand workers who have worked in these companies for years have not worked there and I end up just quoting another data that out of these 5,000 556 companies 106 social enterprises have shown an excess of 23 thousand 882 employees and 307 of them had outdated equipment and technology. This is an inventory of conversion and privatisation that began in the early 1990s, which was seriously warned at the legislator's proposal that these results could also be expected in the course of implementation, warned that the time should stop and begin to correct the injustices applied to workers, and all these demands were always rejected by the claim that they would be able to recover the Croatian economy. It was by accident that the law in the Parliament was passed earlier in the 1990s, and after most of the votes had been passed, the law was followed by great enthusiasm and applause to ministers and prime ministers who defended the law in Parliament. I would also like a day after this report to applaud all those who have then passed the legislation and claim that only this model can we conduct conversion and privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31322	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Velima Ples.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31323	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Lesar, by listing the data, the figures, finally one by one, his truth with all this was worth nothing, that the whole process of conversion and privatisation was one great crime. And I will just remind you that in 2002, his government, or, in 2002, the Committee on Finance of the Government, which was made by his party at the same debate, reached a conclusion and gave to this Parliament where he said, however, it is undeniable that the privatisation process he finally gave positive economic results. So is it necessary again based on some inventions like we could now hear trying to come to power or tear down this authority to say for everything it is the HDZ's fault?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31324	Šime Prtnječa, a respected representative of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31325	Mr. Presidential colleagues and colleagues. Here after the set of commissions, this is the official report from the official state commission I'm guessing last and maybe not. So let's see particularly apostrophe that the intention is to be the last, so let's see, since it includes that period from law-making to this period. And this last period kind of overlaps briefly. But to conclude in the end, I will briefly mention for the introduction what we all know before, pointed out. The essence of ownership first. If we had and found some social property without entering that private state in other countries, the social property in Yugoslavia of the former. That this social property was tried to change for the first time in the late 1980s, by Markovic's model of change or change in the banking sector. Which then continued in the Croatian state but largely affected the later process of conversion, especially privatisation. In this sense, Croatia has already continued the privatisation process in the first years of the creation of the Croatian state, unfortunately very significantly in the banking sector as well as in other sectors. And we wanted to achieve a certain economic and social and political way that we like to list all the goals that were to be achieved by such a process. On the other hand, there is no more socialist commitment to the market economy, therefore the need and necessity to shift to another area. But then the instrumentation of ownership and the rest for such areas followed by conversion and privatisation with then applicable and amended laws. Of course, all of us who did not take part in this were either at least doubted but were also dissatisfied with the situation always with the right or without doubting something that was happening. The process has passed as it is, and in 2001 it seems to me that the government passed a law obliging the State Audit Office to try to verify what it was all done in the sector, which was not done by any service to state functions, services that were supposed to work from the prosecution at the time, so I don't know how they weren't all called in that time. And do every part of the work. I repeat, the State Audit Office has carried out those 6 previous reports because the six-month law provides for, or informing the Assembly, a presentation or reports in the Assembly, and they say briefly that they revised 1556 as the names changed then allow free interpretation, companies. In these 1556 companies, of course, there were some irregularities, and according to their findings, they reported all those that needed to be reported. In this last, I assume the reporting period between the end of 2003 and September 2004, 287 companies were audited. In total, it was said that almost 2,000 irregularities were found, in 1936. Here is the report of the Assembly, but also of all bodies considered to be the basis of the law to take certain measures and actions within it. Within your jurisdiction, of course. Now that's what's been going on. Of course, the ownership structure in all of this time observed since the transfer from HFP’s function, which he held and operated on behalf of the state, has gradually been transferred to that other minority part, which in the second part becomes majority. And the Croatian Privatisation Fund gradually reduces its role. To today's function, of course, in the follow-up of this process. It states here that the objectives set before, but even more set by the 2001 law were implemented to hear I would not quote and reinterpret all possible objectives achieved in this regard, are only assessed. But, of course, it cannot change the situation or take measures other than what is officially reported or reported. Also, not all thieves here have good examples, so of course we can say here under quotes, that the state audit office gave and I think 75 positive opinions. Which means, let's say, everything is legal in that area and in that sector. Not reentering what happened to these societies individually on the market later. Now that introduction I said briefly about the state of ownership and the impact of banking in Croatia, not by accident. Here and these days I have participated, and I still have to take part as a representative in one of Victor Lenc's committees, and if we also wanted to get to some banking file without speaking about any other or possible insinuations then we can only regrettably conclude the Rijeka Bank went into bankruptcy, and the Dalmatian Bank which was one of the participants also disappeared. And even with those banks that are left, there's still a record of any privatisation, I'm reminded of those famous management loans that probably none of us have used here. But it doesn't set us free that we're not even potentially suspicious about it. THAT's the kind of influence we can't get any information today and it all starts from there. The one who had the money initial or could have obtained such funds could still have been easier than the rest of us could have participated in the process of conversion and privatisation in the second sector. Just because banks declare it a secret, unfortunately, and many have gone bankrupt, it is extremely difficult to get any information from that area. So there is probably the other part of the answer that is difficult to determine today who is and in what way and given morally or legally it has always been that doubt that has come to a certain ownership or position that he later acquired in society. And now, in the context of that, many and the companies unfortunately ended up in bankruptcy, so the deadlines go out of date so all together when we agree today we have a situation that actually most of the documentation ends most of the cases as it ends. It's a finding and a fact and it can't be changed. We can grade in any way. This report has already been established according to the types of requirements submitted by previous owners for return purposes, the most expected ones. To return the natural property. Which was practically impossible or in exceptional cases. And other cases that were sought by previous owners. Afterwards, the majority asked for their right, however, to consider that the revision has a return to all solutions. To return the right of ownership to these others, to return jobs and so forth. It is obvious that expectations either were not realistic or this law based on which the State Audit Office audited that business, did not actually realise what it could say in some way in essence. Also, the expectation of others who were inside it, small, large and other shareholders or state bodies of the ministries were also in some way when we now see results or at least otherwise expected, I cannot say unreal expected. In addition, it should also be recalled that the State Audit Office has carried out its findings in a way that has found only in 3 sectors... Of course, the indices and all other importance arises that the core capital sector has reduced the value of the capital that we have already heard in nominal estimates and amounts, as well as that in the reporting period, because we are talking about the report for this period, the number of employees and that it has occurred, so I would say even economically expected process, that the number of larger systems, larger companies has decreased and that the number of smaller companies that have had up to a hundred employees has increased, which is, of course, shown here by the statistics of the number of employees, the number of companies and the percentage in the participation structure within that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the process of transforming capital, therefore size, size, volume, I would say by the number of employees within it, has seen significant changes during this period. It also happened in a way to continue the earlier processes of a certain technological lagging or better to say the lag than expected or announced, as it has often been in the labs very nicely demonstrated when it was intended to take up certain ownership. It should also be pointed out that what the Croatian Fund would say earlier and for the former majority-controlled business of companies, there is still a minority but still a significant part of the sector that is expected to privatise us, probably in the near time, which is what we will draw lessons from all of this I hope to try in a different way to direct in the national interest. Finally, it should be pointed out that the financial results as a consequence of this transformation were also not expected and that the number of companies that were over 20, 22% went bankrupt, which also belongs to this group of these expected and otherwise expected financial results. I would say in the end in some way that from the beginning, and this report proves one phenomenon, and even today, that there was a certain structure of ownership that the state didn't know about, we heard about in the land, we heard about the property, and today it doesn't happen that certain assets are primarily military and some others aren't listed. Well, recently here at the end of last year, we were also arguing that we should finally take the register of state property to know what state property is. Here's what we've come up with is data that and not by amending the law, of course now an uninformed listener or a reader can ask if it's by chance by amending certain laws of law in another way some crimes are no longer criminal. These are the facts, it is now the conclusion and the fact that the number of criminal acts and other acts that have been reported here will be taken by the state authorities and remained under its official duty may be yes or no, but surely they will not give those expectations that the public expected, everything is a crime and for everything will be a full prison. Obviously, there's something different about this report. In the end, I would like to point out that, just by binding the opening statement and this annually expressed expectations, I would like to conclude on behalf of the HDZ Club where we are going. Can we get the process we started back? In this process that we have defined, I hold that we will not further discuss whether we will go into a market economy, towards this goal, towards which we still have a long way to go, or whether we will return to some past period of socialist property. There should be no doubt, in our opinion we believe that this process is painful, that it should continue in this time that is ahead of us, to try, I repeat, to draw lessons from this and try to protect this rest of social property in a way that continues the privatisation process further, to keep private property sacred, to protect the state through all its instruments, as of course... or the state now that there is left or what will remain and that this return is no longer in social property, with all the weaknesses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, by finally directing this conclusion towards this goal, the HDZ supports this report, takes note of and we think in a different way of discussing the finding of the State Audit under the State Audit Act, which it was tasked with carrying out the conversion, i.e. the revision of conversion and privatisation, in fact, cannot be understood differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31326	Thank you very much. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31327	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to commend Mrs. Simu Krasic, her team, on behalf of the HSP Club. Teams of commendation for professional and professional work. But this State Audit report also speaks of how the conversion and privatisation in Croatia was carried out, so I will try to explain it in a picturesque example of one casino in which they are praying to gamble only 200-300 selected persons, each person was guaranteed a profit, and whether they gave or did not give a stake, and the others were also banned and access close to the casino. That and this state audit report indicate. Namely, without any doubt, the privatisation of social enterprises was once the most significant social process since Croatia's independence until today. The Law on Privatisation and its implementation with the right have made many employees and all citizens of Croatia bitter. In the first row because most of the Croatian privatisation process took place in wartime, in war and war circumstances it was impossible to expect the arrival of real investors, but it was right to expect the entry of speculative capital in addition to that of our citizens to be on the battlefield and defending the country from major Serb aggression or being exiled from their homes or for war destruction to be significantly poored and more concerned about how to bring an end to the end than how to participate in privatisation. At the same time, it was a time of reckless individuals who, in these circumstances, wished to come to a large capital that was due to a poorly imagined privatisation process literally lay on the road, the privatisation process itself was based on the assumption that new owners would be investors who would re-emerge companies, companies, companies that bought. However, an even scarier assumption is that private ownership itself guarantees better business, namely the type of ownership has never been guaranteed better business, better business is achieved only by investment and quality management or management. The privatisation model itself was based on the sale of the company to the new owner no matter what it meant in practice. It is clear that in war circumstances the real money for this was impossible to find in Croatia, which is why the result is what it is, and that 10% of the revenues from privatisation are real money, and 90% are so-called. I.E. management credits There's no money. The key role in the whole process was played by the Privatisation Agency, i.e. the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which often carried out business value assessments on the basis of the known criteria. The very often estimated value of land and property owned by companies differed from the estimated value of neighbouring land and land, i.e. it was lower, and often the value of enterprises was conditionally reduced by an exaggeration of so on. the debts of companies, i.e. by an unusual account of interest. More importantly, it often went hand in hand to new owners believing that these concessions would justify that part and that they would return the company's new investments to be able to operate successfully. Unfortunately, in 64% of businesses, the new owner has not made investments to which he is committed by a privatisation contract. However, nothing bad happened to him but often this obvious violation of the privatisation contract was justified so-called. the difficult circumstances, these and those reasons, and the contracts did not break up if they were to be made first. Real estates are further sold, shares resold, workers orphaned and terrified, and property of companies used as mortgages for so-called ". new investments and takeovers, all of which were described together as the development of entrepreneurship and shareholders in Croatia while saying that all of this is actually inevitable and that every owner and even such one is better than the state and some investment fund and the country is constantly saying the worst and worst master, they will do it better on behalf of the state. This privatisation review does not cover a bank review at all, we know for which reasons, it is not the fault of the State Office, nor is it more significant... the role of banks in the privatisation process at all. It was the banks that approved management loans to the unseen. I mean it's a really interesting situation to get credit on the unseen, and the mortgage is what you buy. Without guarantees other than political guarantees, the banks were those which, in some cases, were largely strained interest on businesses, destroying bad business policy and bringing them into bankruptcy. They were, banks were pumping up unreal interest rates and turning them into company equity shares. Such ownership stakes are often sold in invaluable if such a bank makes a series of unreasonable moves and goes bankrupt itself. And now we come to that situation of Croatian taxpayers, Croatian citizens have recovered all these banks in such a way that after the recovery, banks have been sold, and 14 billion kunas have not been recovered. It means the cost of Croatian citizens. It's even scarier that banks were saved by state budget money and later resold. From all of this, it is obvious that this privatisation process has been destabilizing both the Croatian economy and the Croatian state itself, and it is therefore extremely unlikely that all cases of privatisation are peacefully left out of date. The wealth on the edge of the law on the burden of Croatian citizens and Croatian states is not and cannot be an act that can only be forgiven and forgotten. It is crucial, therefore, to draw from these findings of the State Audition an unequivocal conclusion, that the expected results of this kind of privatisation are completely lagging behind, that they are disastrous, that they have brought in a Croatian man and that they have made it possible for 200-300 people who now wish to legalize and seek the establishment of a rule of law. The more the privatisation results are catastrophic. The number of employees is practically halved. The word is that in three years, 386 thousand jobs were lost in privatisation. In 22% of companies, bankruptcy proceedings were conducted. At 24 there is still technical obsolescence, i.e. there was no adequate investment and modernisation, and all this was promised when buying that it would be done. Only shareholders with this kind of privatisation didn't get a swing at all. Employees and former employees had half the shares in 36% of businesses at the start of privatisation. Today, at the time of the audit, employees and former employees are supremacy owners of only 13% of companies. The co-ownership of employees and former employees from 25 to 50% in the past 15 years has dropped from 41% to 13% while a significant increase in the number of companies where employees and former employees have no shares. It should be noted that there are no rare cases of employee fraud when paying off shares, i.e. through a system of demeaning small shareholders. Croatia needs a new form of privatisation, i.e. a privatisation on the lease by which the new owner could not become a real owner until he makes all the promised investments. Croatia also needs a law on the certification of ownership of companies because it is indeed unacceptable for any further trading of illegally acquired shares, i.e. in those cases where the privatisation review pointed to such things. Therefore, the sad fact is that today there is none of the government's representatives here, although here in the opinion we have just received, is indicated to be from Minister Suker, Minister Vukelic and State Secretary, namely, the government said it took note of the report. The Croatian public and the Croatian public are also interested in what is considered to be knowledge. What will the government do in this section? What's he gonna do? Stealing in conversion and privatization for us rights is not solved or can be done. For us there is no statute of limitations for conversion and privatisation, for stealing and impoverishing Croatian citizens. We will therefore take the legal initiatives that we have talked about because we are expected by the Croatian people, and we will not be the ones who fight for the rule of law, for those who want to do so illegally, to legalize and establish the rule of law. The rule of law, yes, but that all have the same rules of conduct and that those who have acquired this can no longer master it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31328	Dear Representative Mato Arlovic, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31329	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that we at SDP's Club on the one hand are satisfied with this State Audit Office report, and on the other hand we're actually a little bit sad. What's this about? We have in a certain way practically with all this report, including this conclusion, received one review of the results of the conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia almost in most of the companies created by conversion and privatisation, i.e. 1556, if it is taken into account that there were around 2570 such companies that went into conversion and privatisation, then it is absolutely correct or accurate data which suggests that similar situations were also with others. The second thing we have to say is that what we have always claimed, is that, based on the bad laws or how it was qualified, the laws that were the expression of the sin of structures, even worse in practice acted in conversion and privatisation, and that such bad laws, the relatively bad laws that governed this area at a very inappropriate time when conversion and privatisation opened, it was war and defense of the homeland, that actually these laws were applied in a way that ropes of illegality that could be characterized as crimes, violations, crimes, and morals, and there was no need, in particular, to speak of morality. If out of 1556 companies of companies thus created and received the view that only 75 that they had properly or fully complied with these laws without now entering into the question of their morality of objectives, in conversion and privatisation, then the question is quite clear where we actually came from conversion and privatisation, because only 5% or slightly less than 5% of companies respected the law in conversion and privatisation in order to do so. And where we came from show data from this report among other things, and they are defeated first for economic social image, from an economic aspect, from a social aspect, from an organisational aspect, from a development aspect, from a technical and technological aspect, legal and moral aspect. And in this respect it is quite clear that something serious must be done. It is shown that a large number of companies have been transformed into a way that the number of medium-sized and large enterprises has been reduced, but not because the objectives of conversion and privatisation have been achieved and adopted new technologies, new organisations, etc., but unfortunately that property that will be distributed would actually be faster, which means that production and business were actually organised, and if you want to work even with principles. Even what we had at a certain level, and that went down with honorary excuses compared to some companies that proved to be very good quality. Furthermore, it has been shown that the number of employees in these societies has been severely reduced and that practically something about 60% of the revised total companies involved in the conversion and privatisation show that we have over 386 thousand unemployed as a result of such conversion and privatisation, which is more than currently recorded by the unemployed in Croatia. The question arises as to how this is social and economic development and, in particular, from the aspect of meeting the direct interests and needs of a man and a citizen who has lost his job. Furthermore, as it is also clear, it is often shown that the value of capital is often reduced, not only because it is not covered by conversion and privatisation, or by assessment, but also for other reasons which clearly show that the assets were practically sucked as the value of the same companies, i.e. companies. And they also show as indications that the substance was actually being destroyed. Of course, in such conditions talking about growth and development, employment is hard to even think about and imagine. It is also shown that a large number of companies have launched bankruptcy proceedings, that the reduction of the Croatian Fund's portfolio, of course, is later, but what is startled that in the largest number of companies involved in the conversion and privatisation in the first part, since the beginning of 91, 92, they have participated as representatives of the congregations of these companies and representatives of the Fund. Therefore, the authorities of the State authorities who had to control the legality of work and conduct knew about these facts and did nothing. And in such a situation, there is no need to talk about that, even under the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, the Fund could have launched an audit as well, not just set up a State Audit. Furthermore, what is shown from this data is that one large segment contrary to the Law on Auditing and Conversion and the opposite of the State Audit Act is not covered at all by the revision and therefore it is absolutely certain that the situation should be considered, what to do afterwards. The total sector relating to banking financial operations, insurance companies and insurance companies is not covered. And of course, many say banks don't give data. They cannot give, because it is explicitly prescribed under the law that they will be covered, and not on the basis of the proposals and initiatives launched by any citizen or entity, but on the basis of the force of the law which says in Article 6 "the audit must be carried out in legal persons who have once or more rescheduled the Government of the Republic of Croatia which established the other body, etc., by law, etc.". To remind you, there is a Law on the Restitution of Banks of 89 federally, there is a Law on the Restitution of Banks of 91s of the Republic of Croatia, 94 of the Republic of Croatia, and that I do not count further, by which banks have been thoroughly rehabilitated and converted in accordance with the law, of course, and banks. Where, among other things, the issue of old foreign savings and a whole series of other things was resolved. Why such segments were not covered, I don't think we should look for specific answers, but we should certainly ask for an extension of the deadline for further review and for our Office for the State Audit to carry out this part of the audit and for us to come up with full true data. But when it's all gathered together, something that's amazing opens up. There's one hard question opening up. What do you do? We from the opposition at the time, the current opposition can have a moral, political satisfaction because we claimed that the revision, conversion and privatisation was done in an immoral and illegal way. That it has not achieved the goals that we want, to create new jobs, to adopt new technologies, to enable the growth and development of the Republic of Croatia and its individual parts and to achieve a better life for its citizens, to simplify all those objectives that we have stated in the law. We claimed, among other things, that it was harmful, among other things, that individuals from that conversion and privatisation were extracting property. That companies often advocated that they could raise new loans on the same property and buy other companies and shares and shares, etc., up to a whole series of other forms of immoral, illegal actions which, after all, the State Audit established in the final part of the presentation. And now there's something interesting. During all that time, laws were occasionally passed that needed to ensure that such conditions were actually sanctioned. However, these laws did not go in favour of extending, for example, the deadlines of antiquity in criminal acts. They did not go by exempting themselves from the outdated parts of this kind that were created in conversion and privatisation, etc., until the revision of conversion and privatisation was carried out. However, they contributed to the creation of conditions by which it could best be defined by the the thesis of our known colleague, former Agent Royce, who had pitted, pitted, and nothing at all. And I publicly ask, on behalf of our club, all of you colleagues and colleagues, all of you citizens of this country. Do we have the right to stay on the theme "who put the pit"? After we got the list, the records, finally the real state stemmed from conversion or privatisation. Which makes it clear that it has been carried out illegally, except in 5% of cases, which are taxed by companies of reputation, which clearly shows that criminal acts have been committed, criminal acts. The truth is, for many people, it's out of date. What do you do? Do we have the moral, political, constitutional right as Parliament to remain on this issue or to take the position that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sends us through its opinion on this point? That he's getting the "Knowledge." Can this report, gentlemen, be taken to the knowledge? Who does this have the right to blatantly legalize illegally acquired property or robbed property from this nation and this state? I mean no one. And the question is this Parliament, its moral, political and constitutional positions and as a representative of citizens and as a representative of the state and rule of law and the rule of law, what will they do? Gentlemen, let's not throw a ball at anyone. Where there are elements and possibilities to carry out certain investigations, penalties, prosecutions, etc., let the state bodies do so. But there's something else we have to do. We cannot recognise illegally acquired assets and illegally established capitalists in Croatia. This is not the end of the 18th and the beginning of the 19th century. This is the end of the 20th and the beginning of the 21st century in which it can be acquired under the rule of law and legal regulations. And I personally think that the Parliament must pass the law... In those four years, we passed a law that allowed, colleague, to determine this state and now that we have established this state, it can no longer be said that it is an arbitrary assessment, that it is a flat-rate assessment of commies, like this and like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is a state that shows that in this country, workers and states of this country have been illegally robbed. And we have to answer the question politically, by means of a legal means at our disposal, which is that what has been illegally taken cannot... What has been unlawfully taken according to our laws, under the Law of Obligation, is nothing since the beginning. And it can't be like that if I have a responsibility. And the burden lies first and foremost on all of us, especially on the ruling party or the ruling coalition to raise the issue and to answer the question. There can't be an answer. There's a report to know. We in the SDP accept this report and ask the Parliament to initiate a procedure to correct and order damage to all of us, not only to individual companies and workers who have been in these companies. The second question that we need to correctly and clearly point out is, what do we do with the banking and finance system? We of the SDP consider that, on the basis of the applicable law on the revision of conversion and on the basis of the Law on State Audit, the laws which, under special conditions and under the special Act on Conversion and privatisation, have been carried out in banks and rehabilitations, that a revision must be carried out in that area as set out in Article 6(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be carried out. And that is why we propose that as soon as possible the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Review of Conversion is not enough to do so with a regulation and is not enough until 1 September of this year, but should extend the deadline at least by the end of this year, that the State Audit and that part of the job should be covered and that the truth is fully revealed. Apparently, there's probably a lot of leaks there, as much or as much as they're pointing hard at at least what I read in the paper to make it impossible for the State Audit to get into that space. And certainly what is particularly important to point out, I think the Parliament cannot say that there is no possibility, it has the possibility, it has the obligation, and it must end these laws with this huge polyp, I would say cancer in the creation of a modern civil, social and market society in the Republic of Croatia. If we don't resolve this, gentlemen, it will haunt us for years as a generation and all of us and will constantly bring us into social tensions and social conflicts between those who have and those who don't because those who have generally weren't at the time when they were supposed to be, but they were engaged in the conversion of property, and those who were engaged in the defence of the state had not been able to participate in it or did not properly value their position in accordance with the law. That is why we demand that the Parliament establish, where necessary, a special working group that will prepare the necessary legal instruments to resolve this issue in favour of and on behalf of Croatian citizens and Croatian states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31330	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31331	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Arlovic said that the Law on Conversion and the Law on Privatisation were passed for the purpose of unlawful acquisition of property by individuals. I must say that it is strange for me that one so... politician and above all an excellent lawyer can speak so, mainly because when it comes to the Law on Privatization that this same law of the coalition government has not changed in its term, but is de facto through targeted... bankruptcy... privatizing what is not privatized and it is by my assessment sometimes and by political resemblance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31332	Okay. Dear Representative Frano Piploic, Club of HSLS Representatives of the DC.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31333	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. Reports submitted by the State Office on their work and audits carried out in 2003 and on the work on the implementation of the audit and the audits carried out of the conversion and privatisation deserve all praise, and, in that sense, the Democratic Centre is grateful for the efforts made to draw up this report. The conclusions of the work report on the implementation of the audit and conversion and privatisation were carried out on the basis of clearly and precisely presented data indicating a number of irregularities, but also offences committed during conversion and privatisation. Although there is no legal obligation or auditors qualified to analyse the cause, there are nevertheless objectively caused causes that have led to negative consequences in the conversion and privatisation procedures. It must be noted that the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was unfortunately only a large bubble of soap that was to create a picture of the implementation of the commitments that the government had passed with its programme from 2000 to 2003. But the bladder burst. Only bitter taste remains and another great disappointment. If we exempt from considering the entities for which applications have been submitted to the State's Attorney's Office, an analysis of the cause of irregularities is necessary as a basis for taking the measures and for the necessary amendment of the legislation. In particular, all entities where the audit has identified irregularities with criminal characteristics and characteristics of commercial crime and infringements should be required to urgently carry out the procedures of the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior, and to request from those authorities a report on the state and activities taken against the entities involved or involved in their activities. We have no knowledge of what has been done on the basis of six reports discussed in the Croatian Parliament on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. The conclusions with the reports have been repeated, and there is no knowledge of what has been done in sanctioning observed irregularities and illegalities, illegal actions. It could be assumed that the valuable capacities of the State Audit Office were spent on the tasks of reviewing conversion and privatisation without any effect on the punishment of those who have committed observed irregularities. Part of the irregularities observed went into obsolescence and justice was not served. And the capacities of the State Audit Office of about 40 experts were to be engaged in a more useful business such as the revision of business and financial reports, state and other public bodies. Therefore, if we exempt from considering entities where irregularities with criminal characteristics are observed remain for the analysis of irregularities resulting from objective circumstances. And this objective circumstances not only stemming from the time component that was created, but also from poor legislative solutions and the found economic situation. Of the 1556 social enterprises, 85 were in the occupied area, 312 in the war-related area, and 572 social enterprises showed that due to the interruption of cooperation with business partners from other former countries, they lost the market, which directly affected the reduction of their business results. It was not taken into account that poor business results were affected by both the fragmentation and territorial isolation and the unconnection of the entire state regions, for example the south of Croatia, eastern Slavonia, with the rest of Croatia. Data on the reduction of the underlying capital at the time of conversion compared to the time of the audit. The following are also the practices of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which, when selling companies in its ownership, reduces the value of the underlying capital to its market value in order to sell it as easily and as quickly as possible, or when they serve for the purpose of seeking out the work carried out in the restoration when their value falls to 10 to 15% of the nominal value. The reduction in small stockpiling was a constant and general phenomenon. Why? Mostly because a large number of small shareholders broke contracts with the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the Rural Buying of Shares, so those shares entered its portfolio. What are the reasons? The most important reason is that small shareholders pay their shares for nominal value. The value of these same shares when they are sold by the Croatian Privatisation Fund or when they are used for the purpose of demand for the work carried out in the renovation is 10 to 15% of the nominal value. After small shareholders were aware that their ownership of the shares did not guarantee their employment, they did not receive almost no dividend and paid a dozen times the market value they lost interest in further shareholders. In addition, the reduction in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the number of shares owned by employees and former employees also affected banks that had their claims on loans to companies at a time of huge inflation of about 30 per cent per month to swap ownership over shares and shares. The reduction in the number of employees in the audited companies for huge over 380 thousand is alarming but such practice is happening now. Why? Social enterprises simply had too many employees. In former social enterprises, social policies were implemented through employment and there is no interest in such policies in privatised companies. And now we come to a painful question, bankruptcy and liquidation. Of the thousands of 556 companies in progress is either a bankruptcy procedure for 345 or over 22% of the companies covered by the audit. In doing so, we remember rhetoric from the beginning of 2000 when the government forced all its forces to force society administrations to initiate bankruptcy proceedings and under the threat of committing criminal proceedings against those who sought a way out of difficulty in various forms of recovery. The shipyards and PICs were amnested and all other societies were required to launch bankruptcy. On the fingers of one hand could be counted the bankruptcy that ended with the continued business of the firm and those with an increase in employees almost do not exist. For example, let's just remember the Sisak Ironworks. All written offers offered to reduce the number of employees from a thousand and 700 to a thousand and 600 respectively, and a large Russian customer appeared, as he intended to retain all thousands and 700 employees. The assessment of this offer is well known to all of you and the Croatian public. What are the reasons that the development programs have not been achieved? Each of these programmes should be analysed. Certainly there was ignorance and mismanagement, there were criminal and criminal acts but there were also objective reasons in a number of societies. What do you conclude in the end? The State Audit Office successfully carried out its task and handed over the extremely well-assembled reports to us. But in that folk, we can say, "Operation has succeeded and the patient is dead.". All the objective circumstances presented were also known before the Law on Revision, Conversion and Privatisation was passed but because of pre-election promises, the former government moved into a huge but unfortunately worthless business without any result. Nor have the offenders been punished, nor have the consequences of the employees been resolved. They're mostly in the bureaus or somewhere alone looking for a way to survive. Even the Privatisation Act remained unchanged. All of this indicates that as the Democratic Centre, we will accept this Report of the State Office for Auditing its work and work on the implementation of the audit and the revision of conversion and privatisation. However, we will also propose a conclusion that should say about this, that it should ask the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior to urgently implement procedures and report on the state and activities taken against the entities involved or involved in the conduct of detected irregularities with criminal characteristics and characteristics of commercial crime and violations. The government should propose amendments to legal solutions and take measures to prevent the further occurrence of objectively conditioned negative consequences in privatisation procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31334	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is an interesting intersection of what we've received from the State Audit Office, which is actually an extraordinary chronicler of what's been going on in the last 15 years. I'll remind you of just what we're starting from. We started with former social enterprises where we had some surrogate companies because we also had directors, we had the opportunity to deal with exports and imports, colleges, work advice played by the board of directors and even a choir of workers and a referendum that were obviously surrogates of the congregation of companies. At that time, it was actually believed that this social property was being administered and that it was in the function of improving all those who were inside it. Often, the decision to cut wages has also been made and it decides on more significant investment and employment. It just seemed like it at the time. After 90, there is obviously a new nationalisation where those who worked in this society, who developed it, were forced to buy these societies again. What was it like to illustrate to us that the average value of society, it says here in the review report, was 13 million and 100 thousand marks. However, we chose the wrong model and obviously we chose the wrong legal framework for privatisation. I was present under the circumstances when former Economy Minister Dr. Kalodjera said he would resign precisely because he had chosen the wrong model and he did not believe that this project could succeed and felt a great responsibility because the core capital of those companies was then 24 billion and 400 million then democratic, then marks. However, 36% of employees believed that they could own and that they could keep jobs in these companies and put in shares over 50%. In addition, 41% of these workers entered shares in the value, i.e. between 25.01 and 50% apart. In other words, 77% of the workers enrolled shares of their businesses. They believed that they had a chance that these societies could develop. At the same time, at the time, the law provided that the part charged by the sale of shares would also go into the development of that company. Unfortunately, it never happened. Part of the shares sold by the fund or by the then agency ended up in the Pension Insurance Fund. Unfortunately, even here in the report, we don't have more precise data where there were billions of people who had been bailed out in retirement insurance and often changed shares that were nominally worth 200 marks for shares that were worthless by one, by two marks. It is particularly disastrous when we observe a report of how many assets were not included in the conversion or included at a lower value, or what was recognised as revolving loans to banks. That's 965 million marks. It is characteristic that some have lost the ability to buy in that privatisation or in conversion. We know that these are workers who worked in the INA and HEP, in the Croatian Post Office at the time. Of course those workers and defenders we predicted to give them shares were left without profit when she was now touched. However, the biggest losers in this process of conversion and privatisation are primarily returnees of defenders and disabled homeland war. Three billion 668 million 490 million marks are divided in the form of coupon privatisation to defenders, exiles, and their families. They were forced to sell 10, 15% of the nomination. It was just such a model. Others who of course lost the most were small shareholders, 500 thousand small shareholders participated in this privatisation process whose contract was broken because these shares could not be paid, and they paid them often by nominate of 100 darkness even though they were worth 10 marks in nature even less. They also lost pensioners who were retired at that time due to the privatisation of 400,000. And, of course, employees because over 300 grand were unemployed solely because of these negative effects of privatisation. The state tried to arbitration. The state tried to invest in revitalising these companies. It has invested 8 billion and 800 million kuna, unfortunately 22% of these companies have gone bankrupt and successful revitalisation or recovery has only been done for 7 companies. The law on revision and privatisation, which was passed only unfortunately in 2001, is good but it was too late. And I'm convinced that nothing happened by accident or even passing that law. I will remind you that the law on the prevention of money laundering was passed only in 1.1.98, at the time all transactions were completed. The money couldn't be traced for cash payments was a lot of cash payments. And the financial transactions that were made through banks have been declared a business secret and it's still a business secret. It remains also unclear why the fund did not break the contracts. He broke up the purchase contracts only with small shareholders, and did not terminate contracts for those who needed to execute the capitalisation, which should have kept the number of employees because they simply wrote it in their contract, but the fund did not deal with it. What's scariest in this report of numbers and, of course, since the occurrence is a billion and 532 million marks of war damage, and 3 billion 9 34 million marks of damage to privatisation through a smaller base capital that writes to us here in the report. So we had two-and-a-half times more damage than privatisation than we had war damage on the economy. Today we have a large number of bankruptcys and we have a small role of the state even in bankruptcy. Because I'm showing up at a slow pace, from case to case. Today in privatisation and when buying companies out of bankruptcy, whoever offers must have 100 million kunas, because they are generally such competitions. We're creating a monopoly, and we're actually going in the 200-family direction again, and our civil layer is gone, and thanks to this model and privatisation and bankruptcy sales will completely disappear. Of course, the question arises as far away from this situation as possible. It's interesting that we at this extraordinary audit work that's ahead of us didn't get the obvious of those actually who are the most responsible for the complete job. We don't know what the fund thinks about why the contracts aren't broken, what the fund thinks about it given the property that wasn't transferred, they gave the financial transactions abroad that were made possible to re-activate and so forth. The fund doesn't show up on that. The fund has no obligation. I'd just like to conclude here the obligation of the Privatisation Fund to indicate this review report that we've received. I'd also like our pension insurance fund to be reported. There's also a missing large property that didn't happen by accident. What we are also taking in the HSS is the conclusion that one more quality management of a more responsible management of the total state property is needed, and so is this portfolio of the shares that are left. As well as more responsible management in bankruptcy, more responsible real estate management. I return to that old thesis that needs to be built in Croatia by a fund that will manage the total state property. Of course, by one other responsibility to first manage to produce better quality processes and then sell. In particular, you wouldn't support having a sale that happens to us by someone else's dictatorship rather than selling it when we decide, and selling it by the model by which we decide. And the model that HSS stands for is the SO program, is the working stock that died. It's almost gone. Or we could, and we'd have to activate it. That would simply be a priority. We're also taking the initiative to complete the review of everyone. Here we have seen in the report that the audits have not been carried out for all those who have experienced changes from social property to companies now. Of course, it's not the audit. Because we have the wrong decisions. But there's no reason why we shouldn't continue this business and get the audit done. This is a good chronicle, this is actually a job that only well done by the state audit in the process of conversion and privatisation. All governments have failed. We've made an appointment here and we're in the Parliament, and there's probably something we can do, because this information I'm going to repeat once again, that we've had a billion and 500 million marks of war damage. And 3 billion and 900 million marks damage in the economy. So big damage was done if it was a war crime, then this was a crime against the economy, a crime against the employees. Crime to the pensioners. Should that and old age, I believe not. However, whether we want to do so and whether we want it not to go out of date is probably just here in the Parliament that we have to decide. There's a good will for that. I guess we're all hoping to find a way to draw conclusions in that regard. Because all these items that the review was talking about have a name and a last name. Maybe I can't be legally sanctioned and misdemeanorized. But as far as the assets are concerned, we can probably get back what they took from the state. But if we can make a different conclusion of changing the law where we have to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31336	Thank you, dear colleague. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is time for the application for a 10-minute hearing. We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDS, dear colleague Ratko Gajica, please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31337	Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say a few words about this thing without pretentiously saying a lot of wise and great analysis because I know less about it. But I do need to point out two three things that I don't think are right or wrong. The first thing is when I'm talking about this, then I have a beginning of discomfort on two three things. The first discomfort is this is professionally made material by Mrs Krasic and her crew to the extent that inside are given and responsible grades in a professional way and as far as I would have to say this material is good and it should be supported. It is only one side of the medal, however, precisely because the content of the document is such that it points to the conclusion that as a human and as a citizen we must have dissatisfaction or we must be dissatisfied. The other thing as discomfort, maybe it's just personal, I don't know if other people have it, but we're talking about something that we don't know about, especially about repercussions, subsequent repercussions and the effects that privatisation has produced. I'd just like someone to teach me if there's one in general. The third discomfort is that I have the impression that we're at war with the windmills in this thing. The fourth thing I'm picking up on is that, I think we agree that there's a very widespread opinion amongst the people on the ground that they're being cheated. And the fourth thing in this introduction that I'm adding here that many of you probably don't know, a large number of people in the areas of special state care have completely fallen out of this venture and relative to the values they created themselves. Now, I will, on the basis of this introduction, say my opinion about two relationships. One is the relation, you said Mrs. Kasic, we did our job. I believe you and I believe that you have done your task neatly and professionally and responsibly, but you have also written in your material that one of the goals of conversion was to protect myself with the Constitution now repeat, protected values of legal order and public morality. It was also one of the goals of conversion. Now, if you've done your job and said, we've brought the matter to an end and we're no longer putting an end to it, and at the same time it's out of your material or maybe beyond yours, however you like, you can draw a conclusion. The conversion was done by following the legal rules that were worth it, and then it was done that thing was done, and now to use the harsh word, unfairly, unfairly. There's one contradiction that's very, very clear to me, you know, and I don't invoice it for you or your report. I'm just saying that this is about something that's left like a tail and like a huge injustice that can't fall on your shoulders and it seems to me that it's actually transferred to the role of the revision that you've had to do. This means that you had to do something that you couldn't, which means that the task that was impossible was impossible, which means that there was no desire for such a task, such a task to be carried out. I look at you, but of course not with the desire to, to point out your responsibility, responsibility in that matter. The second relationship I want to point out here. If by revision, this report and this revision put an end to this process, then I, I want to say that it seems to me to be a point on i, and I'm going to give two illustrations that talk about it. In 95, a man became the owner of a agricultural cooperative, never in that place where the cooperative had not previously been and had not invested anything in it. Then he became the owner of the fixed assets and went out to borrow, I don't know how much, say, 100,000 marks, it doesn't matter, that 100 kuna and on behalf of the loan, a mortgage on that property is recorded. Then he didn't pay the loan and the cooperative property became a bank. Nobody's interested in this right now or so, if the review is complete, no one's gonna care. The second illustration I mention here. In one place there was a conversion of one plant that had no value for the future as it had in the past, and I agree. But the conversion was made in a way that one man bought a port, another man bought a kitchen, a third man bought a parking lot, the plants were not yet sold and that thing was now handed over to HRĐI. I mean, I can say it literally, and you can also take it in transfer terms. Now, the people who created those values had no opportunity to say anything about it. When they answered, they were told that the deadline had passed, and the deadline had passed. I, you know I understand me in this place, and people and given what we know and given what we bring and deadlines are important, and deadlines are important. In this matter, it seems to me that from the beginning it should have been more important content. So I, I will finish my story with a conclusion that bears the next taste, I will raise my hand for your report, but with the conviction that I am doing wrong in relation to the content he treats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31338	Thank you, my dear... It's my dear colleague Damir Cain's turn on behalf of the IDS Club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31339	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Chief State Auditor, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The first thing the government took note of. That's her, Royce. Mr. Arlovic himself said, "Whom the pit," it all looks like it's covered with old age, it's all covered by law. The tycoons involved today are pillars of society, for sure nothing will happen to them. Whoever thinks the wheel goes back to the beginning is naive, simply in 2005 it won't be possible. Who will return 300 or I don't know, 400 thousand lost jobs, who will correct the injustice against hundreds of thousands of people, who will technologically restore this country, who will return the money earned through that, or obtained through that conversion, etc. and then spent at the opera ball a few days ago in Zagreb. Who are the companies that changed the owner back into that original state? What about banks, especially those who have changed owners and are managed by foreigners today? Who can conduct nationalisation in 2005? Why are not those who took part in the conversion particularly taxed? And that's what we were talking about. I wish all this could go back, but to be honest today I don't believe it anymore. Secondly, Article 1 of this Privatisation Act literally states that privatisation is part of the overall economic development strategy and policy of the Republic of Croatia, and is implemented in order to achieve faster economic growth, market economy conditions, preserve productive employment, technological modernisation of the Croatian economy, introduce new modern methods and management skills, involve the Croatian economy and Croatian businesses in the development flows of the European and world economies, promote the growth of Croatian entrepreneurship, encourage the involvement of entrepreneurs from evicted Croatia, reduce the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to businesses, etc. I have quoted Article 1 of this basic development policy strategy of the Republic of Croatia as outlined in the 1996 Privatisation Act. So what's been achieved from all this? Little, little, little or almost nothing. First of all, of these 1556 social enterprises that numbered 635 thousand employees, only remains are leftovers. In one word, companies are decimated at least when jobs are done because, as everyone before me has been instructed, 386 thousand 675 jobs are raised and that is then a fundamental problem. That left Croatia 386 thousand workers of 635 thousand 373 who worked in these 1556 companies. And you know what, that job reduction trend is still happening mainly in large businesses, and I think that's all of those who, for example, employ more than 150 employees. Employment will take place in this country at this time only in small enterprises that count to 10, or up to 50 workers, and this small economy should be particularly stimulated. I'm looking at Istria, in 2001, she had 11,000 105 unemployed, at the end of last year 6 grand 82 unemployed, so somewhere around 6%. In 2001, she had 69 thousand jobs, about 75 today. And where are these jobs open? They are not open in the Riviera, nor in the "Adriatic tourist" or in the "TDR" from Rovinj, nor in "Olinik", nor in "Pazinko" were mostly opened in small businesses. The exception may be "Cimos" in the Labinian "TPS" and that's most of it. What were those jobs opening up to? To a large extent and large incentive funds, nearly 500 million kuna by the County of Istria. So the policy of encouraging that segment, that small economy, is certainly not a bad policy. The truth is not just a conversion, i.e. privatization of the cause of the collapse of the Croatian economy. In my opinion, this is primarily war, then the fact that a large part of the Republic of Croatia was almost one third of our country occupied. Then the fact that the Croatian economy lost the market of ex-Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia, and also because of the fact that the collapse of the Soviet Union could not find new partners overnight by losing the clearing market. Finally, out of 1556 transformed companies covered by previous audits, 85 were located in the occupied area, and 312 in the war-related area, means almost 400. That's one-quarter. So one quarter of the companies were under direct war influence, and the entire Croatian economy under indirect that kind of war influence and therefore the conversion was not allowed to begin in either dream in 91st or 92st, when one third of the Republic of Croatia was occupied. That means it was, and there are many agreeing with me, a crime against this country, so we come to the fact that only 75 subjects are privatized according to the law. However, I am convinced, you gentlemen are convinced, Mrs Krasic is convinced, that it is hard for a single company to be privatised by law, and why because no one in 91 or 92 has had anything, but is hardly able to privatise a larger social enterprise. So from the time our socialist directors didn't have a house and didn't drive, I don't know, Golf. Maybe there was a craftsman by the house and a cottage driving a Mercedes. A returnee may have owned a million marks at the time, but one of them could afford to buy a company, and it is difficult for one to convince. But what is it, it's here now. Croatia has passed an economic transition. Who has, who doesn't have a hard time having that in this country soon. And all those who have, will deal with us gentlemen in the Parliament with the members of the government, among other things, buying time for all these outdateds to pass and thus definitely self and their own protection, because it is not disputed that I don't know that everyone tried to convert it on the basis of the law. It's only one thing to me that these gentlemen in 1991 or 92 came up with money. Therefore, all our laws on revision and conversion and privatisation would say Ante Kovacevic, are onion, water and romance. The law requires everything, just not what's important. Gentlemen, where'd you get the money? This company covers 39 companies of 288 from my constituency. There's a big one here. I don't know. May, "The Oils", "Liburnia" hotel from Opatija, "Adriatics" from Crikvenica, "Peace Rovinj", etc., "Pazinka" Pazin, but I will hardly have time to talk about it, probably tomorrow. They were all big companies once. If I can touch someone, let's play it for later, but what's really important is what this report isn't talking about, and all the clubs were saying, it's privatizing our banks. If someone is interested in reviewing the banking system, or banks, it is IDS for at least five reasons. First, to answer the question why some banks were rescheduled and others did not, how banks then took over the Croatian economy, as some tycoons took over banks by buying banks' co-owners' companies. Istrian. Why do I suppose one of the few banks, this is Istria, is not rescheduled with any kuna of budget money and how the privatised banks are eventually in a way that today, in the end, I don't know, we have more than 90% of the same ones owned by foreigners. What matters to me, I may say it tomorrow, is that without one kuna of budget money, the Istrian Bank managed to save itself, and from the budget was set aside according to Professor Jakovčević, 19.5 billion kuna and that all of this happened at the moment of the collapse of one Dubrovnik, one Commercial, County Bank, Cibalie from Virovitica, if I am not mistaken, etc. Let's take it in a row. How did banks get into companies? They entered on the basis of the so-called re-valorised loans and those famous decisions of the 1996 VONS, as well as the purchase of tycoon by individual companies that were co-owners of banks. Credits would also get high because of the desire that the then CEOs of the company, by my deep conviction, remain in relation to the bank, and not to politics, then agree to the banking conditions because they were easier to talk to those who knew them until then, with whom they worked than with politicians. This is particularly important for tourism companies that eventually privatized banks, e.g. Lagunu, Jadranturist, etc. Or those companies through the so-called coupon privatisation were taking over our PIFs. In Istria, the largest owners of the tourist houses were banks. They did not return their stakes to the Agency at the time from the recovery of banks but sold them or held control packages. The state review, and that's interesting, is that if I'm not mistaken, she's declared nothing. She called it nothing. But late, the people would say "The mark on Kosovo is coming". Before the audits were found, everything changed the owner. They usually got these houses from a foreign owner, and that's where the story ends. No, there's no one who's gonna open that Pandora box today in 2005. One who would do so would isolate Croatia because it would prove that the capital in Croatia is not safe. Unfortunately, it is a great Croatian tragedy because what the State Audit is doing today, it does unfortunately with 10 years of delay, although it should be believed that the work entrusted to them in the best faith is in line with the rules of the profession. You'd even dare to say that what we have today is in some way the beatification of those procedures that started in the early '90s. It is a tragedy that some, according to immoral laws, which Mr Arlovic spoke of, are rich, that today are billionaires, it doesn't matter whether in kunas or dollars, and others on a beggar stick. That generation that's been creating this property since I-II. The World War here for the prize has been cut short for 40, 50 pensions, and these owners, directors, it doesn't matter how they got it, today many of them are millionaires in euros. That's right, it's a law of nature, cruel by that people's "until someone gets dark, the other one gets light". And I'm afraid, unfortunately, nothing on this matter more than these sometimes and proper debates will be possible to do, and the IDS Club would be happy to join that Arlovic initiative to try to revise under quotes the way individuals have acquired these companies, but I'm afraid there won't be much of it to satisfy us in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31340	Thank you very much. There's been a debate over clubs. An individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31341	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Chief Auditor with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we have this year's report on the work on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation. Therefore, for the period from December and September 2004 to September 2004. And there's hardly anything to object to. The government's opinion on this huge job. The government of the Republic of Croatia took note of the Work Report, and as Pontius Pilate washed her hands from one, here is a job she wants to take away from her ingenuity, there it is. So the government has thus shown one unseen ignoring, minorization, bagatelisation, as if I were saying it's none of the business and what's the matter with that job at all. So, one huge effort, a great deal of human effort, as well as the huge state resources that followed this huge, massive job. This work was not its own purpose, and it has significantly improved to facilitate the work of other bodies that are competent to act on the basis of exactly this audit report. And in such a way that, therefore, not all of this vast material is no longer being delivered to the State's Attorney's office, but rather being specifically taken into account, therefore, a significant effort to draw up criminal applications. So, not in just some suspicion of some irregularities that may be minor but, therefore, in illegality that raises suspicion of committing a crime. Of course it takes a certain effort, knowing things, a huge job. And then what about those criminal charges? A good part of the already possible procedures has become obsolete, but when this Law was passed, that is to say, it was precisely after that that huge work that the audit would be doing for several years would not be a waste of work because it was pointless for the revision to do such a job and then what about it? So he frames it somewhere and that's how it stands and that people look at it and they're happy about it. So, after that law, after a few years, after a year and a half, almost two years, a significant amendment to the Penal Code was passed. Whose essence was and was offered not only by the necessary jobs that we must do in the adjustment process, i.e. the adaptation and accession of the European Union as regards international conventions, but above all the satisfaction of the social justice requirement that is from us, the citizens expected so much. So, first of all, it was necessary to see and change a good part of the economic incrimination that concerns just that, but it is clear that the Law cannot apply backwards. So that's what we've been thinking about. And the greatest value has just been on that trail and citizens' expectations, a significant change, an extension of the limitation of the deadlines. There, therefore, were slow hopes and expectations of citizens so that there would be no absolute justice that was not even possible on earth, but such justice. However, we all know the fate of this Law. That the opposition at the time, today’s government did not want to vote in favour of the Law, but of course it did not say for that reason, the extension of the limitation of the deadlines, and so there were no significant objections. But for God's sake, we represent the decriminalization of drugs. Okay. In the position of government, the Penal Code is changed, the most necessary thing about adapting certain standards and conventions of the Europeans, but not a word of it. So there's no political will. And the next day, when we discuss this problem again, there will be many who will say, "Here, what has been the revision." The audit, to be clear and loud, has done its job legally. And not here, if there are any objections, this is a chance to talk about it. However, it is obvious that there are no objections because if anything remains to be sanctioned, that is, the process may be that there is no guilt, but there is no doubt. It was also further thought, precisely on the trail of what had been changed several times by 2000, the Penal Code when those deadlines were shortened, when there was even a criminal act of such a kind that you couldn't commit a crime and no harm if you were the majority owner of a company, so one absurdity. And then, knowing all these situations, but I would rightly say not only indignation, but also in the rage of the people that it feels like an injustice to correct it, but to remain on the trail of legality and that basic postulate that adorns every liberal criminal law, so to save what is given. We also proposed the Law on the so-called So-called Law. A one-time criminal tax, he was smoothly rejected, so there was no, if he was bad, there was something else to offer. But obviously there's no will to do anything here. But it is not good for anyone, for no political option, it is not good for Croatia. Because otherwise, if justice is not established, it is a permanent source of instability of society. Society is always hungry for the establishment of such justice, which is the only provision, the only guarantee of progress. And that's why here, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, we're going to suggest certain conclusions. But Croatia no longer has time to comment on these or those reports, obviously it is now a matter in the government, on executive bodies, to take what is possible, but equally here is the obligation for us here as legislators, as legislators, to enable the implementation of what she has found, which is set up by the revision. If you don't want to, then tomorrow you can't transfer responsibility to someone else, possibly even to the judicial authority that I'm pushing, which is a huge number of cases, and to once again go back to... economic crime, we don't have any backlogs in any other kind of case, but it's obvious that the judicial authority is reluctant to face these problems. There are reasons multiple, but the good part is in one insecureness and no need for this kind of problem. And that's exactly what we were thinking and taking care of that education, the witches all that we're missing, these are complex forms of crime, they're not a classic thing that they didn't originally educate themselves on, and it certainly takes a while. They proposed deadlines in the Penal Code were quite adequate to catch up with everything, to correct what was given. I think the government still has time to propose, here's the constant announcement of some amendments to the Penal Code, and that's exactly where SDP's proposal was rejected. Shouldn't wait, I say Croatia doesn't have time especially for these things and it would really be commendable if the government proposed what it proposed, which was once during the coalition government and passed the law, which later the SDP proposed that, precisely on the basis of a solution to this issue, the limitation deadlines in the Penal Code be extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31342	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31343	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Chief Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. This is, I don't already know what kind of State Audit report, anyway, finally. The seventh time we listen and read the same thing. Irregularities, criminal acts, misdemeanors, job losses, here we finally see that 386 thousand jobs are missing in this privatisation process. If it wasn't for the country, Croatia would be a land full of employment today. The disappearance of capital. But you see capital, money doesn't have an alcohol property to evaporate, money can't disappear, he can change the owner himself. That's what happened in the privatisation, changed the owner, some social value turned, turned into private pockets. Or rather simply, there was a robbery. And the other essential feature of these seven reports is obsolete. The State audit shall file criminal charges, regardless of the statutes of limitations, for criminal offences. But what the D.A. can determine is that the mass of it is, if not, out of date. The former government has pledged to revise conversion and privatisation and this promise with this today's report has been fulfilled. Revision of conversion and privatisation completed. But the citizen review means something different to what she legally is. Citizens were audited by robbers in prison. Taken away the property that was obtained from that robbery. That's how the citizens understood the word revision. The public also expected names. Because behind each of these privatisations is a name. So you can see who our converts are, who these people are. The transformation was led by privatisation at the time of the war. So some went to war, and others went into conversion. It's the first worst cynicism of that privatisation. The war lasted, the public's attention was of course focused on war, the country was defending itself, there was a question of whether it would survive. And during that time, when the boys were killed on the battlefield, others were put in their pockets. So what now? Went into obsolescence. Are we going to make peace with "Roysian" cynicism, "who's the pit"? Because that's what offends the citizens. That cynicism. I don't think we should, even though we're asking a really serious question, what do we do? He's proposed to at least some sort of solution, perhaps not the best, perhaps not the complete, but some kind of solution that would reduce injustice. For example, that one-time criminal tax. When we suggested it, then there was an objection, look, it would be legalization of that robbery. It won't be, it wouldn't be any legalization of the robbery, because it was legalized the moment it went out of date. But it would be, it would be one measure to at least ease injustice. If you can't get enough of it already. Any other options today? There is. You know, parliament is parliament, it's a legislative body. Parliament adopts laws, designs legal solutions. And there can be solutions if there's political will. And does he have any political will? Here's my colleague Ingrid talking about how she was first refused to extend the limitation deadlines by today's parliamentary majority, rejected. And the second time the parliamentary majority took over and went into amendments to the Penal Code, it did not propose an extension of the limitation deadlines. In the spring, I think it was spring, a tax on dividends was abolished. These tycoons take dividends today, it's the source of their earnings. So in order to make that profit as rich as possible, to get as much into these pockets as possible, the government has proposed and the parliamentary majority has accepted the tax suspension on dividends. Let's give them a little more help. And it really raises the question of whether he has political will and who should have that political will, who is the most responsible. Well, the most responsible is, of course, the parliamentary majority that makes up that government. We can't take this to the knowledge now, nothing, very important, either past or resign as Damir Cain, resign. To say that, that is, injustice but my God cannot return time backwards, time is one-way running, it's over. Some of the solutions were offered by Mato Arlovic, but whether those solutions will be realised depends on the will of the parliamentary majority. At the time of the first HDZ administration, the robbery took place. It was made possible by law. It failed to go into review in time, failed to submit criminal charges in time, failed in time to cancel those conversions where the crime was committed, to extend the limitation deadlines when there was still time to extend them. Now, now the review is over. Now we have a picture of the condition. It is now necessary to act if it wants to act on the basis of this picture. Now we need to pass special laws. You know, when America was hit by these terrorist acts, there's no human rights protection in America for terrorists, there are no terrorists, and America is a country that at a very high level in a very high standard protects human rights but has no protection of human rights for terrorists. Privatisation was terrorism in Croatia. That's all he can compare with. And so, that's how it should be approached, that's how it's treated because everything else would be the approval and legalization of the robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31344	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31345	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! There is only one thing I would like to replicate and it refers to what Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović said before and now Mr Stazic. Namely, they accuse the then parliamentary minority and transfer responsibility to it because some law, in particular the Penal Code, which would contain an extension of the statutes of limitations has not been passed. Any parliamentary majority is always responsible for the law-making process and why they are not the majority when they were in power to secure it is already a second issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31346	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31347	Look, buddy, that law has been brought down for formal reasons because it wasn't passed by qualified majority rather than by ordinary majority. For that qualified majority, the responsibility lies with the opposition. If you had voted for the law then, the deadlines would have been extended and could have been counted within the legal deadlines. The question is whether you want it or not, but let's let it go. You've changed now that you've come into office you've changed the Penal Code. We have then suggested that the legal deadlines be extended, but you have now rejected it as a parliamentary majority. You refused to do so with a clear intention of refusing to want these people to be processed, to escape into obsolescence. That's what you did with your rejection. You said no, we're not going to let you SDP gentlemen accept any extension of the limitation deadlines, it's not in our HDZ interest. It is in our interest that those who robbed them not to be punished. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31348	Thank you. And the last speaker tonight, the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31349	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to give firstly an assessment of the work of the Office of Audit in this difficult work, and I think that, as parliamentary representatives, we really need to show respect for the work done because when the law was passed, the office was neither teamed up nor I would say enough staff and neither technically nor in fact the regular audit that was doing the job accepted the burden of these new obligations, and as long as it is time-consuming that it had done a good job in that short period. In fact, by discussing every six months and at meetings of the Croatian government and in the Croatian Parliament, none of us found any objections to the individual findings of our audits. And obviously we have to evaluate that the Audit Office has done a good job. Whether it is complete or we will find more elements to continue their work I estimate that whatever task we set before the office he will be able to complete. It remains the second that we are representatives of the legislative authority whether this is how one hard job gives us enough elements to decide. I would like to say that now, with the final report, I think we are in a position as parliamentary authority to make the necessary decisions to try to resolve these damages as a legislative authority, and that is our part of the job. And basically we have to tell the citizens that their expectations from the Office of Audit, that sanctioning damage or repair damage was not the right address, that yet the real addresses on the resolution of these damages are on the executive, parliamentary and judicial authority and that the institutions of the state from that level should decide very clearly what our moves are now, which are now our activities. And maybe before I say that I think it should really be designed from the level of parliamentary authority, maybe even some evaluations of this final report. And I don't think either of us is bringing the basis of this report to the privatisation process and the necessity of privatising the former social property in question. And that's not at all a problem in this find, nor does anyone want to challenge it. And even less, stop him. It's from the lab records. But it is also evident in the finding that it is also the wrong time because it is the time of the creation of states and therefore not sufficiently trained professional services and in executive power I would say in the official government when we know what was going on. At the same time, it is also the time of the restoration of our defense of our homeland. Thus, wartime is also not suitable for such transition periods. And of course it's obvious that the model was wrong and it's all to conclude from these simple reports that are ahead of us. A privatisation process hard, a model of time but I would say all the institutions that were involved in it with many, many disadvantages. What are ultimately the adverse results of the process, and we can make it very clear. An exotic number of lost jobs that are not small. If we take that the whole of Croatia currently has a million and 300 or 350 employees, 350 thousand lost jobs are huge damages. We need to define who's in harm's way, the workers, the pensioners. This layer of society suffers damage. Also an enormous reduction in capital with a privatization process, and conversion. Unfortunately, during this period of 15 years, the complete technological obsolescence of the Croatian economy. Or not realising investment in technological recovery which was part of the component in me I would say, the relationships of those who participated in the privatisation. We can't even talk about new employees when the topic is lost jobs. And especially when we're talking about the failure of the model, we need to highlight a completely failed system of small shareholders. And that was the basis of the transformation process itself. He's gone. The process has disappeared and failed to give results of certain exceptions in some companies that are currently coming into the process if we know what is happening today with small shareholders in Kras. Because the capital market that we're also under-control affects the collapse and the last ones I'd say successful companies with small shareholders. But what may not be said, but we can conclude from all that, that the situation in society with this process is this important process in transition to market economy. I have already pointed out that most of the citizens belonging to workers and pensioners suffered the most severe damage, the entirely negative attitude of Croatian citizens on privatisation. And this negative attitude also means resistance to the remaining privatisation processes, which means that it will be a very difficult job for any government and in further processes. Conviction of Croatian citizens for these failed processes and results, both executive and parliamentary and judicial authorities. Conviction. And now there's the question. When we know what the state of society is in this process when we see what the results of this process are, and we know what our wish remains, whether we as representatives of the parliamentary authority can, by the basis of this report, try to mitigate these negative consequences. Try to sanction part of these negative behaviors. I don't mean that much in criminal law, even if there's something I can do about it. But it is evident that the tax system is weapons and parliamentary authorities, in account of these negative consequences. In an attempt to do something. And that's why I think we should make it clear today that the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation has given us exactly what happened. He gave us the names of the successful but the names of the failures. The names of those who used, the names of those who destroyed, and who were simply the negative side of conversion and privatisation. And they do, but unfortunately, and the heavy material consequences. It's all given this report. And therefore, based on this report, the Croatian Parliament has the power to pass extraordinary laws. And that these extraordinary laws are passed by Europe and the world in extraordinary situations also has a practice that we can see in the last two years. So we have that power. The question remains whether we will send together particularly aware of the situation in society and the evaluations in society these positive answers. Either we'll continue to try to get at each other, who should've done what they could've done, or who didn't. This report will serve citizens to identify the culprits but also to try to minimise the negative consequences of conversion and privatisation. Our legislative activity must be the answer. And the biggest tragedy will be if we make the same conclusion as the government. We're not doing anything, but we're getting the report. I think that would be the worst decision for the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31350	Thank you very much. We'll continue tomorrow. A series of MPs who have 19 still registered for discussion. Mato Arlović. Rose Lelic. Drazen Bosnjakovic, Niko Rebic. Zlatko Tomcic, Zvonimir Mršić, Jure Bitunjac and so on. Resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31351	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and debate on the report on work, on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31352	My colleagues and colleagues, I have been involved in this debate over everything that has happened and is happening in the area of Županje and Posavina County, which is the consequence of privatisation and which, due to one morning 2002, was at the entrance to Županje, a graph of "Zupljaja village in bankruptcy". Namely with the County Bank cap, all the companies that were tied up were tied to it, and the bank was trying to connect all the companies to themselves, the failure of the company's bank fell into serious difficulties and some ended up in bankruptcy, some of them in bankruptcy with the reconstruction, and some of them were fortunate to be rehabilitated as was the County Bank. I believe that he also played a significant role in all of this in the way in which the bankruptcy, interest and expertise of the bankruptcy manager were managed. Because we had cases where bankruptcy managers were self-employed firms in bankruptcy, I think they ran it with special interest and seriousness and such businesses came out of bankruptcy, I would say if it could get out painlessly, then they came out painlessly, all the time they were doing it, the workers were getting paid, there was no layoff, and now the refurbishing went well and they're now waiting for their further privatisation. We hope the next one will be much more successful. However, we have companies where bankruptcy managers were from Osijek or from some other places where they ran bankruptcy and for several companies and certainly such businesses went badly and on the other hand bankruptcy proceedings lasted long, so that the few assets that had been drawn in this whole process and remained in fact workers and creditors without their claims and some of them still today demand their unsettled commitments, as are the employees of the "Ljužnika" themselves. And after this privatisation, I'd say one Tshunia in privatization, now I'd say after this implementation of Tshunia, we're now in one correctional position. We see that companies that have been bankrupt, who have come out of that course or have been rehabilitated are now back in the privatisation process and certainly all the mistakes and failures made, I think they need to be corrected now. And the mistakes and failures were, from non-disclosures and trade unions and workers when they did not know what would happen to them, they sold their shares and thus allowed various tycoons to manage their jobs. Because let's remember what the review report also says, that in 35, almost 36% of the employees had 50.1. So they owned these companies, while in the next 40.94 they had a stock control package, i.e. 25.01 to 50.01. And that's why it's good now that both unions and employees are keeping an eye on what's going on with their businesses, they're actively involved in this, and I think we need to support them and understand it. I'm usually, and I can support and I'm a proponent of working stock, of a kind of working stock, where it's possible for them to be full owners, and where they don't have one part, to have one package of shares that will allow them to participate in the decision-making and also to share profits. And in fact, this privatisation process has shown us that we lack political but every other morale, that we lack non-discipline, because such irresponsible behaviour that results from the failure of companies at the expense of private wealth, I think it should be absolutely unacceptable and malfeasances should not be out of date. That's why I think it's a good thing that the revision deadline has extended to September of this year, so if it's necessary to continue. Because in the privatisation process, the number of employees was reduced, or even a thousand 171 companies reduced the number of employees by more than 50%, which is really one of these worrying data and ultimately resulted in 386 thousand being unemployed. Then, the interesting information mentioned in this review report is that out of the thousands of 556 companies analysed, only 15% have practically achieved the objectives of the development programme, 20% in part, and 64% of the companies have not achieved those objectives at all. So I could say that it also encourages this example, which is current, which is about "Gorican," which shows one of the government's social sensitivity, and I think that every government must be socially sensitive, must try to preserve existing jobs and open up, and open another, and I think this government is. Yesterday there was a debate here in the speech that this one-time criminal tax had to be adopted, I don't think it's a good solution, because it might actually be an incentive for people who used something like that to pay a nice tax and then think they've solved it all. It would be like legalizing illegal construction, and the question is who would judge who used something to pay that one-time criminal tax. There were also speeches that there were no privatisations we would now have full employment, I don't think we can really think about it because it's clear that this number of employees that were in the company were no longer sustainable so that the consequences and privatisations, but also the consequences of the general social events. It is also pointed out, say robbers should be put in jail. Well, I think we're all for having none of us that thinks so, but we're not even the state's attorney's office, we're not the courts that we can do it, but here we can contribute to what we can. The report mentions that one of the tasks of the State Audit Office is to verify whether the process of conversion and privatisation has led to law enforcement, in particular the Law on Privatisation. The office said it also identified the type of injury and the manner of injury and named the persons who did it. It also points out that the most significant difficulties in privatisation have been identified, and there has been a lack of documentation, that the documentation has not been preserved, which is certainly very significant, because somewhere I say there was no longer any obligation to keep such documentation, and somewhere it may have been deliberately destroyed. Then it wasn't possible to trace the flow of money because we all remember that it was often money in suitcases and cash, so if it was bank loans then they interpreted it as a business secret and they didn't give it away. It is also presented as I have already said that the revision covers a thousand 556 companies and only in this period which we are now analysing from December 2003 to September 2004. 287. And what now after all that auditing is done. It is said that out of all these companies, a thousand 936 irregularities have been identified. And what's next? Out of the total number of these irregularities, as many as a thousand 215 do not have the mark of the crime. And of the remaining 721 irregularities, there is a suspicion that 271 has the mark of a criminal offence, then 10 has the mark of economic crime, only 10. 237 characteristics of the offence and in 71 cases a criminal application has been filed to the State's Attorney's office, if we add to that another 93 criminal charges being filed under other applications than the Office of Audit, then we see how many, in fact, is one, one small number in that. And if we continue to add to that whether the attorney's office will accept these criminal charges and then these disputed courts, and we see, here we have seen that, in the end, all of this goes without any result, all of this points to deep thinking and necessarily seizing order in this area, and studying a comprehensive State Audit could give the opinion that the report has been drawn up professionally and correctly, so this could be accepted in that sense. Since I have little time left, I would just like to say in this report in the state budget that in 2003 the government made a decision to provide guarantees for many companies that did not meet the criteria, instead of the 5 billion and 900 guarantees planned, it gave 9 billion and something, which is 52.6% higher, so I'm afraid what if the companies that received those guarantees did not pay back their commitments what would eventually happen. The same is also mentioned in the rebalancing of Croatian highways for 2003, which planned a significant increase in the deficits of 556 in 2004. Then there was no agreement from the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, that the Ministry of Finance had warned that it was not legally adopted, but that the government had done it all. There are also 576 million that are granted to HBOR loans to the Ministry of Public Works, for reconstruction and so on, which is also not recorded in the financing and accounting account in 2003. Here's after my time's up, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31353	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31354	Well, counterpart Lelic said that if a single property tax law were passed, it would mean legalising illegality in conversion and privatisation. We see from this final report that since 1936 irregularities have been identified even in 1215 cases it does not have the mark of a criminal offence because it is not prescribed by the laws. This is something terrible in our legislation, and the largest number of applications, or irregularities identified by the revision, have actually gone out of date. Obsolete and regulations that do not punish irregularities actually legalise robbery in conversion and privatisation, and we say in our proposal for a law already rejected in this House, that the subject of taxation should be acquired property that has been acquired directly and indirectly from a source which cannot be determined in the process of taxing a valid basis. So what you were saying, if it wasn't paid out of a loan, if it wasn't paid from an account, it was cash, and it can't be proven that those assets that were used in the privatisation were acquired, it would be subject to taxation and it would be at high rates so that, for example, That's how we suggested the lowest rate was 35% and that the highest rate would move at a fixed rate plus 80% of the tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31355	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31356	I still share my opinion that this one-time criminal tax would not be good for this reason that I made, and plus it should all be determined what my colleague was saying, so I don't know how it would be done. But I also said in my presentation that I believe that someone who has done something has committed a criminal act so that it should not go into obsolescence and that I also advocate an extension of the privatisation period, a review of privatisation, but also a more effective judiciary that would sanction it all, and a change in the law that would make it all better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31357	Thank you. Second replica, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Lelic has now found out herself that a large part of the things we are talking about and a large part of the illegality has already become obsolete. So the question is whether something retrograde can be prosecuted legally. Therefore, by making a claim against a one-time tax, you simply bring all those who are immoral, but also illegal, to come to property, not to be punished in any way. The law that sent the SDP procedure simply meant that in a relatively painless way the state was calming down the money that was happening in this way, simply without them. Let us not forget how much has been destroyed or how many jobs we have left, how many such companies have not paid or remained in debt to the state and to the funds of money for taxes, contributions and everything else. This way would still sort of fix that condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31359	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31360	Well, here's my colleague, Korenik, who hasn't been able to convince me that this one-time criminal tax to be good and to be enforceable, because companies have already changed their owners multiple times, and then we should figure out who's paid everything in a way, so I think it's better to solve it with regular court procedures and not stimulate someone, because this way you could conclude if I get caught then I'll pay a fine criminal tax, and if I don't get caught well, I've gone well, and it would actually stimulate people into such an illegal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31361	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31362	Thank you, Mr. President. We heard here's the seventh report, we heard a whole series of data I'm not going to repeat, but it's obvious that there's a fundamental question in front of us right now, and what we're going to do now. What we're going to do now after all of this when it's obvious that whoever reads we're 46, 47 and 48 pages of the final report sees that it's a complete fiasco, that it's a matter of state crime and that it's a matter of planned crime. We just have to figure out a way to answer some questions. Why did the conversion begin in 1991 in wartime? Why did it go to a model that the smart people of the economists then said in advance would not work? Did the darkness and the cover of war be sought so that "work" could be done under quotes? Is this the result you wanted? I personally don't believe it, because I don't believe in such a possible dose of masochism. Whether they're overestimated maybe their own intellectual capabilities, I think they are and I think that's possible. Whether the planned robbery in favour of the chosen faithful, I believe, because it was just indicated at that time by the government came voices of 200 families who should bear the development of this country. But the question is, if that's the case, then why is there so much incompetence between those 200 or 300? Why is it that so many who have actually failed regardless of getting cheap or free or what they have taken, why are they even ruined? Well, there's a very clear answer, obviously, because that plan system that planned it all together was incompetent and he didn't know how to plan how to do what he took, how to turn it into some kind of favor. Furthermore, the question arises why did those who knew, smart people, who knew what was going on, who saw what was happening and who knew that it would not work together? Some were afraid, some were hoping for their part in the general corruption, some were simply far from it all because they were overly busy with other important affairs of war, etc. Some simply refused to be heard, and they were not allowed to be heard. Furthermore, we have to answer the question, was there enough national responsibility in all of this? It's not. Let's see what our neighbors did. They have protected their property and are sleeping peacefully today and, despite being members of the European Union, they still have a good influence on the state property they have converted from social property. And so we could tell me a lot what those who sold unscrupulously to strangers did. At the time, they had under a thousand dollars of GDP per capital, and today they visited Croatia and have 8.9 thousand. Those who were 5 as old as we were at the time, today they're 13, 14, and we're at 6 and a half or at 7. And to perhaps just a little further translate what the auditors wrote in their final report, where they did not definitely quantify how much damage they were, they probably couldn't or could not have avoided it. I say the damage to privatisation is over 100 billion kuna. What's from their data to read is about 20, 25 billion, what they wrote. But there's no such thing as the damage our banks, which were then privatized, took away some 3.4 billion marks, by reviving already paid loans. There is no damage suffered by nearly 400,000 people who have lost their jobs. There is no damage resulting from the time difference between the time when the conversion is performed and when the audit is carried out. There is no word of qualification, which means when only 75 companies out of a thousand 556 or 4,84% are evaluated and found to have properly implemented conversion and privatisation. It's a tragedy, it's a national tragedy, it's a violation of all the values in this society. And then we must be surprised, gentlemen, when some of you with incredible ease, with a terrifying ease you speak of these facts as if nothing had happened. Gentlemen of the HDZ, you must say, this is the product of your garden. This is the product of your garden that you watered for 10 years to be just like this. Fortunately, in 2001, the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was passed. As we considered the first, second, third report, we could also hope and hoped that these bad results might still be reduced. Today, however, we are considering 7. The final report can no longer be hoped for today. We got to the end of the road, we got to the wall, and now we know where we are. We know that we just got a product that can't be finished by repeating the conclusions that we've repeated six times so far. These conclusions were once sterile, they were once constructive, the government used to act on them, it didn't act on them, sometimes the lawyers tried to do something, sometimes it wasn't, etc. But that's all the story now, that's all the story. The story ends today, if we want and the bitter taste remains that under 5% of conversion and privatisation has been made legal and 95% illegal. The fact remains that 100 billion kuna damage has been done. The fact remains that 400,000 people are losing their jobs for conversion and privatisation. The fact remains that 64% of businesses have not achieved the objective of conversion and privatisation. So repeating such conclusions is simply pointless. I have an impression, based on some debates, that there's some tendency that we'd rather forget all this together, that we wouldn't like to talk about it, that we'd prefer to act on that people's "fall of a cat" or how our former colleague Royce used to say "who's yamio, yamio". There's a reason to run. There's a reason to run, it's a difficult and responsible topic. But also embarrassing. If this Dom ends this whole story the way we've finished it, and now we have a final report, then I'm afraid that all ethical and moral standards in this society will actually disappear because it will become a valid rule. Everything was allowed and everything was impunity. Who can bear the burden of sin and sin? This House just can't allow itself. And that's why I'm inviting Mr. President and you and everyone here in this room to step on the ball and get some air. Let's think about what to do with this. This may be a burden for the next 10, 20, 30 years for this nation and for this people. This may be what will cause constant unrest in this nation. To that right, gentlemen, we don't. If we could reach a consensus on a minor issue of the European Union, failure in the European Union is a year sooner or later not a problem. This will be the problem of this nation. So let's give ourselves a chance. Let's engage top moralists, ethicians, lawyers, all those who can advise us on how this House is going to take this society out of this greatest robbery, the greatest disaster, the greatest moral devastation this country has experienced since its creation. I'll continue the debate for five minutes on behalf of the club, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31363	Thank you. I will propose a supplement to the agenda because the Club of HNS Representatives, the PGS, has removed that formal requirement which is related to the lack of signature for the establishment of the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts concerning the issue of public morality regarding the acquisition of property of state officials Ivo Sanader and Miomir Zuzul. Any objections to this supplement? There isn't. I would like to confirm that this has been completed, so after this debate, we will begin to discuss this proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31364	Mr. President, a colleague of Tomcic's alluding to crime claimed it was a product from our garden, addressing HDZ. I have to make it right, namely, it's incorrect that it's a product from our garden, and in order to support it, I'm just going to say a few facts. Namely, you should have looked at your garden well when it was sold to the Dubrovnik Bank directed from your garden in a shameful way. You should also review your garden, a common garden when you were selling the most luxurious hotels in Dubrovnik despite the opposite attitudes of even your ministries. So look and comb your garden first to talk about someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31365	Second correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31366	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Since yesterday, 9 hours and 30 minutes in this assembly have been heard 113 times morals, political responsibility, moral responsibility, human responsibility, and that of which? Each of us has the right to mention that name, but Mr. Agent, former Mr. Secretary of the Government in early 1992...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31367	Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Babic, correction of the incorrect quote on MP Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31368	It's not true that in the HDZ garden these products are made. If this happened, he is the largest stem in the HDZ product in 1992 as HDZ Minister for not solving what he is talking about today. As president of the Croatian Parliament, he has a chance, as a representative at the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President, everyone can call me, but from today on, you won't call me and speak in the plural. You are not my verticalist in politics, in morality, in the people and you are finally learning Croatian because you receive money from Croatian tax collectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31369	Thank you. Third Amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31370	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31371	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go. Mira.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31372	It is an incorrect allegation that the respected counterpart Tomcic said that the problems of conversion and privatisation refer only to the time period as he said for 10 years. Unfortunately, as we can see today, this time period is longer than 10 years. So after this moral lecture, I ask you, Mr. Tomcic, do you sleep peacefully, since you've been President of the Parliament for four years and what have you personally done as the first man of this house to be made these deviations that you speak of IDs?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31373	The HSS Club is respected, please. You're welcome to the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31374	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here we are today... [[speaks not included, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31375	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31376	... There's a microphone on, if he wants to turn the gentlemen up, she'd be grateful. [[speaks not included, can't be heard]] And today went on what happened yesterday... and yesterday the representatives of the Club of Representatives were... offended, convicted and accused without any... [[speaks not included, can't be heard]] Today we heard from our colleague Babic again about some learning Croatian which we can understand from previous exhibitions, of course, that it is the re-insultation of the Club. [[speaks not included, can't be heard]] In this atmosphere, it's very difficult to work. And that is why we are asking a 15-minute break to consider how to work at all when the President of the Parliament does not protect the dignity of parliamentary representatives and the entire clubs. I'd like a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31377	All MPs heard very well what Mr. Zlatko Tomcic's speech, which are qualifications and all that is said at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community. I will clearly grant you a break of 15 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's a 15-minute stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31378	... to respond to these qualifications which he said here generously by acting as holy Joseph righteous Mr. Zlatko Tomcic. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31379	15 minutes off for these two clubs. Here you go. Resume in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31380	We're moving on with the session. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31381	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, here's a long time ago when we were in a parliamentary crisis that occurred in irresponsible behaviour and indemnity of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, that behavior was made a significant contribution by the President of the Parliament himself. In good faith, we have looked for solutions in good faith and we have reached some agreement and we thought that this agreement will be respected, that we will succeed in our clubs to calm down the passions that are sometimes understandable and are often incomprehensible because they go all the way to deny the right of the representative to express his political opinion, to express his position on what is being debated at the Parliament. Yesterday, we did not react when we really needed to react because it was the last attempt to try to preserve the integrity of the Parliament, such tolerance, patience, and everything that goes with it. Mr. President of the Parliament has failed to sanction a harsh insult, an unargumented insult. He did not even give an indirect warning that this was not the way to talk. Today we've been exposed to re-argumentation, rudeness, and so long as you've got something to say. So whoever appears in this House does not speak for himself but speaks for those who voted for him. Do we, Mr. President, want to say that 935 thousand citizens of a million and a half have not voted at all? But it's not our goal to discuss it. The goal is to show us that this way this parliament will not be able to do as the Croatian people expect it to. Representative Zlatko Tomcic said in his presentation what the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party means and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party fully supports the debate of Mr Zlatko Tomčić. Mr. Gold Tomcic did not insult anyone in his presentation. He just found out, he found out and repeated what was in the State Audit report. The state review found out what happened in the privatisation, so if we go to a nice analysis, then we'll find exactly who did it, and he also determined the time it happened. Well, we can't falsify now, couldn't say Mr. Zlatko Tomcic that privatisation happened from 90th to 2003 when it was established when the privatisation took place. The state audit also identified the damages that had taken place. The state audit also found that it was not sanctioned. The only logical conclusion is that it happened during the government that was at the time. It was the HDZ government. I don't see anyone getting mad at that. Mr. President, since these are the views which are and the views of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club we appeal more than the last time to do what we agreed, do and contribute to the agreement being in force, do something not to be ridiculous and not to be bitter about the citizens. Ask your offices the phones are ringing and the citizens are pleading about what is happening today in this Croatian Assembly. You're protecting yourself, Mr. President, but you're just the first among us. He's protecting all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31382	Thank you very much. I protect the dignity and rights of all MPs from this place. Those who speak you asked for a free speech, a speech that will not strictly stick to the subject. Qualifications were given to this debate by a variety of Croatian parliaments and the public heard them well. Not here, as you have stated, I am not making it impossible for anyone to express their opinions and opinions, that is clearly clear. Every MP, every club has its rights. It is said, debated, and I see no reason for such an appeal to me that I should allow freedom of speech, opinion and expression of views when it is evident that this here is very much in line with the Rules of Procedure and benefits. The Croatian Democratic Community's club is a respected representative of the club's president and vice president Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We listened to Mr. Zlatko Tomcic's presentation, which was filled with difficult and offensive qualifications towards Croatia's democratic community, its policy for a long period behind us. When Mr. Tomcic had slept through a big period of talk about how we lost four hundred thousand jobs then he qualified it to be lost due exclusively to conversion and privatisation, although much of the jobs and lost because of the conversion and privatisation, because of the system that failed because if it hadn't failed, nothing would have changed, because we would have done well in that system. As the economy came to the brink of disaster anyway, then the consequences were such that many companies were shut down, could not be held on the market, lost market etc. But we also lost large capacities and employees in Borovo, Osijek, Vukovar due to war, Vinkovci, Zadar, Gospić, Petrinja, Lipik, Pakrac, Dubrovnik, Karlovac, etc. But what Mr. Tomcic did to mitigate the serious consequences he was talking about because Mr. Tomcic was sitting in the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, there was a minister and I didn't notice that he had ever raised his voice, that he had protested, so if it wasn't his or her reputation that he offered to resign as a minister in the HDZ government because otherwise HDZ and the late Joza Pankretic invented it, it was good for him when he was climbing a political ladder and now that government where he was sitting the most difficult qualifications. So we do not dispute the consequences of negative bad or partly bad privatisation and conversion. But that's not the whole truth, that's not the whole cause. The causes are much wider and deeper but what does not give Mr. Tomcic the right to address and qualify the Croatian Democratic Community as a member of the HSS when he sat neatly and peacefully not only in the Government naked and at the clubs of HDZ representatives debated, listened, proposed and the like. So, I don't justify anyone here all that is objective, it's objective, but Mr. Tomcic seemed to have come from another time, and as if he had either slept over or he didn't know he was still in the HDZ government that he was involved in all of this and that he never raised his voice while he was sitting in government, but later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31384	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zlatko Tomcic. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31385	Mr. Baby obviously or some things he doesn't know or he doesn't remember well. It is not true that as a minister for 18 months in the HDZ government, I did not raise my voice against conversion. You don't know that, gentlemen. You will ask my boss, Prime Minister Nikic Valentiæ, you will ask him, and you will get answers I hope about a whole series of questions and details for which I was responsible as Minister when your people pressured me to appoint to supervisory boards in certain companies, the time will come and the names will be agreed upon. So, incorrect. Incorrectly that I had no support for serious procedures, I proposed an integrated concept of housing reform that the government accepted, and rejected at a meeting by President Tudjman who was not a representative club, but which was the extended leadership of the HDZ, I guess. I had never been to the HDZ club, but I was at a meeting with President Tudjman where my concept was rejected because you couldn't agree between yourselves. Thank you very much. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31386	Okay. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31387	I thank Mr. President, so in this presentation, it is indeed a series of accuracy and it is the biggest one where the guilt is to be transferred to one man, so, speaking of which, Mr. Bebic, the conclusion of the County Assembly of Brdosko Posavia by 27 June 96.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31388	Well, Mr. Baby wasn't talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31389	Where it's said, I'm sorry. Where it's said, the County of Brod Posavina requires an annulment... [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31390	Well, Mr. Bebic wasn't talking about Posavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31391	/Speaker not enabled/
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31392	I wasn't at a session of the Ship's Posavina County Assembly. And the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic is correcting the incorrect allegations, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31393	It is not the correct quote of a respected colleague, Bebić, whose athomine takes away the right and legitimacy of any representative to speak and give qualifications about anything. The fact that Mr. Tomcic's presence in one of the HDZ governments does not delegitise that he has the right to speak of it and to be critical of the fact that he himself made those decisions. In other words, I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31394	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31395	The allegations of legitimacy that someone is talking about something and giving their political grades.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31396	This is the polemics of my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31397	HDZ colleagues would have no right to speak of... [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31398	That's not correcting the quote, you're self-aware, you're polymizing with one claim. Well, it is. And colleague Josip Leko is correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31399	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Bebic has qualified conversion and privatisation as bad or partly bad. That's just not true. Official qualification is illegal privatisation in 80 percent of cases. This must be qualified as a systematic state conversion as a systematic state fraud in conversion and privatisation. This cannot be qualified differently because it is the official position of the official bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31400	Okay. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31401	I would like to thank President Tomcic with a high lesson, so it would be good for him to explain in this House but also to the Croatian public why he was changing in this assembly the law which said that officials could not share more than 20% if not because of him. Because he had a 22% stake in Capital, that's when it rose to 25%. You should tell this people when and how rich he is today since the poor '90s. If his Capital won a public tender of jobs from the city of Zagreb and state ministries, he was never the minister and president of the parliament. And that's good for this people to hear and the public to know. We can't be the hostages of 2, 3% of the wicked people here, 97% of the people sitting here. Unfortunately, everyone protects their wicked people. The HSS of all this, those of your little chateau, us someone and so on. It would be very good for this House to banish you once and restore credibility to Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31402	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31403	Thank you very much, Mr. President, now that Mr. Rebić has been presented, it is clear. It's all clear now. Personal dealings with people are in effect. Now, Mr. Rebbe, let's make a deal. Let's get in front of this house and bring back what you have and what I have. So to prove to the Croatian public from 90th to today, I may have become rich by 50,000 marks, perhaps. That's terrible. That's terrible. And I became an official on April 1, 93. Since then, every piece of my data to Mr. Rebić has been, or in the government, where property data has been collected, or with the President of the Parliament. And I claim that I am the only official who correctly fulfilled every moment all obligations under the Law on the Rights of State officials and relating to the law on, the only one It's the only one that's correct. [[/Subject from the bench: The only one?]] It's the only one that's correct. And that's what you heard yesterday from Mr. Kavljevic. Don't get upset. Don't get upset. No one but me. I didn't know that, but Mr. Kapraljevic said that, didn't report it to the Commission for conflict of interest in income. No one. I am surprised that apart from Tomic among the state officials and all those who fall under the authority of the conflict of interest law and there are about 2 and a half thousand no one, where miracles, extra income. All those who have it, and there's a dozen of them here in the Parliament, don't let me start calling. There's a dozen of them, and that's what the commission's gonna do, and they're all in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31404	Thank you. The second replica is the respected representative of the Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31405	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Tomcic said in his presentation at one point "it's about planned crime, which we're going to do now". However, Mr Tomcic, one of the most responsible persons in the past term, acting as President of the Croatian Parliament, had the opportunity to start amending the law when it comes to privatisation, because he was de facto talking about the Law on Conversion and Privatisation qualified it as criminal laws. However, we need to know and the entire Croatian public knows that in the past period, the former coalition government has done nothing, has not changed any of these laws, and on the other hand you have had a total of 5 State Audit reports when it comes to conversion and privatisation. I am now asking you here in front of the Croatian public what you as President of the Croatian Parliament have done about 5 State Audit reports in the past, at the time you were President of the Parliament and when your party was in the coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31406	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, look, I agree that you can discuss the sins of me as President of the Parliament, the sins of that government. In which my party participated, but it cannot amnesty those sins that were committed since the adoption of the Law on Conversion 91 to 2000 until you came down from power. [[You got a line?]] That's two sleeves. One sleeve is until January 3, 2003 and our sins, we can talk about them, I will read them to you and read what I have done as President of the Parliament. One of the conclusions of 29 May 2002 says, in addition to the obligation of the State Office for Auditing, the State Attorney's Office also obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to the Croatian Parliament, within 60 days, the adoption of amendments, the addition of new laws necessary for sanctioning, etc. So that conclusion again with my signature as President of the Parliament we strengthened it seems to me, October 11th, or a few months later. So we worked, we asked the attorney's office, we asked the State Audit, we asked the government as well. We can criticise whether the government did everything it didn't, but it doesn't matter. That's not what I was talking about. You're asking for my government's responsibility for what we haven't done, but I'm asking for your responsibility for what you gentlemen have done in 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31408	Correction of incorrect, i.e. replica, respected representative and vice president Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31409	What we did in nine years and you participated in a year and a half, and then you're looking for responsibilities for yourself, because you were sitting in government at the time when it was the biggest privatisation. You claim that, Mr. Tomcic, you've been resisting, we haven't noticed or heard it in the media. Besides, you said you'd never been to the HDZ Club, you were at HDZ clubs. You further claim that everything happened in 9 years, and if you didn't, and you qualify for the most difficult qualifications of that period, then how is it possible that you stayed in the government for a year and a half, where you claim to have faced each other, so when you failed to do so, why Mr. Tomcic didn't resign, you sat neatly for up to a year and a half in that government. Therefore, you are not credible, from those who participated, as you say nine years in this process. You're part of the responsibility you wear on your back and that's what I want to tell you here once again by not amnesting anyone else for failures, failures and bad solutions that have been and have happened. You can't give us a lesson now that you've been from all of us for as long as there is, at the most important ministerial executive post then in the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31410	Replication response. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Neither Mr. Bebić nor anyone else will embarrass me with the fact that I was in the government. I wasn't in the government or for HDZ, but I was for two reasons. Because my party president agreed with your party president to do so, and because I knew the Prime Minister, Nikica Valentis, and I believed that I would have conditions for work. I did. I had all the jobs that weren't about discretionary decision-making at Pantochuck. The conversion was decided at Pantovack, not in the Croatian government. That's my guarantee. Get the government records. For a year and a half as long as I've been sitting in it, you'll see how much it's decided to turn into a government. The government didn't make up its mind, gentlemen. And as for my responsibility for a year and a half, so I'm willing to carry along with you my share of responsibility. So when I accused you, I accused myself. What belongs to me for those years and a half I'll wear. As long as you're wearing it, I'm not so sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31412	Let's move on to the debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31413	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable State Auditor. The subject of the revision may also be one of the most important topics we are discussing in the current course of the mandate. Unfortunately, the importance of this topic does not correspond in any way to the treatment of this topic in this House. The debate began late yesterday afternoon when most of our Croatian citizens watched either handball or "Villa Maria", and of course they wanted to couldn't watch it because there was no television transmission. And today we still don't know if there's a television broadcast today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31414	A colleague you mention on TV. So do we know very well that the directorship, the HRT Programme Council, decides that it is an independent and autonomous decision of the HRT. What are you saying again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31415	I don't know why you're angry or why you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31416	I'm not mad at anything, just don't repeat it like some yesterday why there's no direct television transmission.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31417	I'm not...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31418	If he's not here, then he's gone because that's how the HRT directorate decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31419	Your Honor, I didn't say why there was no television transmission, I realized he was gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31420	Yeah, well...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31421	So let me say that as a representative I can make findings, I didn't ask to determine yours or anyone whose responsibility for whether or not there is or no television transmission. I have found that television broadcast is not available and I wanted to conclude that and for this reason the citizens of Croatia cannot be familiar with what is being talked about here. I know who makes the decision whether the transfer will be or will not be, but I am not, so I'm just finding the fact, ‘ right, you have no reason to be angry and not even interrupting me in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31422	Oh, I'm not mad at anything, but the television broadcast has, uh... There's only one program on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31423	Yes, and please, if you could extend my time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31424	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31425	Thank you very much. So, not only are there no television broadcasts, but there's no one from the government in this assembly today, I'm interested in where the prime minister is, where are the ministers of the economy and the police. Where, for example, is the state's attorney? We're not talking here about whether the State Review has accurately determined the actual state of affairs because we assume it is. Today's debate should make sense to see what has been done in the past 13 or 15 years and to see what conclusions and what actions this Assembly can take to remove what has been done wrong, what has been done to the detriment of Croatian citizens. And not now that we're discussing here with the state auditor whether it's true that 308 or 307 jobs have disappeared in the Rapid in Koprivnica, whether the capital was basically 7 million or 6 million. The debate was supposed to be here and the government was supposed to sit here and talk, listen to what the MPs were saying and say what they would do together or suggest conclusions to this House that would be taken on the basis of this report. Unfortunately, the government said that it had received knowledge, knowledge, or knowledge. What is this finding, and what is the conclusion of this government? What is the message of the government's conclusion to other services and institutions in the Republic of Croatia that should be done? Should the State's Attorney's Office also take note of this audit report? Should the police, as part of the government or the executive, take this report into consideration? And today, gentlemen, we are discussing not who has become rich in conversion. I don't care about that. I believe the State's Attorney's office will do something about it. Today we talk about where 386 thousand 675 jobs in Croatia went missing in 10, 12 or 14 years. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about who's responsible that these jobs have disappeared, and the jobs have been missing for exactly those people who have given up for years to create these jobs. And while on the one hand somebody's bank accounts increased, they increased, on the other hand, significantly increased the number of people in employment offices. Most of those 386 thousand in employment probably will not have the opportunity to get a job or a job anymore because it is difficult for people who are employed. Some of the lucky ones managed to get some pensions, so now we have a situation where we have a relationship between pensioners and workers and employees 1:1. That's what we're talking about today. We are discussing the responsibility of those who brought this process to an end, to end the process of conversion with these results, and it is not only those who used the opportunity. It's not the ones who took advantage of the opportunity to take over the company, to charge it with a mortgage, to sell out the property, to separate the company's property from the company's, to drive the workers into bankruptcy, and to make the assets a huge fortune. They're not the only ones responsible. Someone was passing those laws. Someone had to check the drafts on the conversion. Someone had to check and control the company development program and in the company development program it said that some 14 thousand I think is just, is extra employees, and it happened to result in 386 thousand. Therefore, someone is also responsible for the institutions of the state, why he has allowed them not to be implemented to elaborate on conversion. Why he allowed shares not to be paid and to be managed as if all shares had been paid. And when today is about the government's social sensitivity because it has redeemed the debt of Gucic in Goricanka, gentlemen, so I wonder how it was possible to get to that debt. How could they have been created in the Croatian Empire of Gucic, the Kutla Empire in a very short time, and no one is responsible for it today. Not the ones who should be sitting in court. Today, in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, there are people who have approved the drafts on conversion, and today they are sitting in the Croatian Privatisation Fund for people who had to control it, so they are also responsible. Even today in HDZ, and also in the HDZ government, there are people directly responsible for the conversion, not those who should be prosecuted because we assume that the state's attorney will find enough arguments to prosecute them. It's people who have allowed such a sin structure and people who are not doing or not doing their job that made it possible for us to get what we have today, which is 386 thousand jobs less. The person who approved the conversion elaborate is responsible for the failure to control its implementation and, at first of all, it was necessary to prevent the person who took over the company from managing the company if it did not provide what she said would work on the draft on the conversion plan as well. And I'm surprised that no one had the need to suggest conclusions based on this audit report. And I ask the President of the Parliament to call together clubs, club representatives and adopt conclusions based on this report. I suggest some of them. In my view, it should certainly be amended by the Law on Commercial Companies and it should be established that no one can sit in the supervisory boards who is mentioned in this report of revision and conversion and privatisation and that there is an audit having objections to that conversion and privatisation. In this way, we will prevent those who have sinned about conversion and privatisation from having subsequent effects from doing so. This revision of conversion and privatisation should be lustrational and should be said by all those responsible for this revision and conversion and privatisation not only criminally but also by the executive authority should no longer be worn, state officials. At least a little bit, we will return credibility to the citizens of Croatia for what has been done, and the biggest robbery of Croatian citizens in the history of the state has been made, and all of us are responsible for that and those who have sat in Parliament and those who have sat in governments in the past, but we will also bear if we do not take steps to remove some of the consequences that can be removed, but we will certainly bear responsibility if we do not punish the guilty for the situation resulting from the conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31426	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the 7th report of the State Office for Auditing Conversion and Privatisation. Each time after the debate on these reports, the Croatian Parliament reached conclusions on the basis of which it informed the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of the Interior and other certain state bodies to take criminal acts in the course of their work, to initiate criminal proceedings. So that's seven times in a row. This is now eight times in a row. After these discussions go to these conclusions that are being directed, it has always been so. No government members have ever sat there, with all discussions on reports the government has given its opinion. Neither did the attorney general, he gets the conclusions, gets the phonograms, that's what the State Audit Office sends him. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31427	Thank you. In fact, 90% of this debate is pure demagogue from the darkest times. The real truth is which Croatian people must know that you have won the election, that your election promise is that you will review the conversion, that you will return the robbery and put the thieves in prison. You, unfortunately, have wasted the time and money of taxpayers. You're bringing this country back, so you don't have any results and we need to discuss it, not what it was. So you got the people, you cheated by who knows which way again Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31428	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31429	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Mršić says: "who is responsible for 386 thousand jobs lost by privatisation and conversion". It is simply not true, it is a deception of the Croatian public because if it were right this moment in Croatia, 80,000 workers would be missing. So Croatia would import 80,000 labor forces. In part, privatisation is responsible for losing jobs, and one of the most characteristic examples is the case of Victor Lenca, where SDP's tycoon, Mr. Vrhnik has conducted a criminal conversion, and for which he received the blessing of the State Audit that this conversion is okay. And it is the result of the criminal transformation into the "Viktor Lenc" behind which the SDP tycoon stands, otherwise the legal follower of the Alliance of Communists is the result of the loss of several thousand jobs at Victor Lenc, which is an irrefutable fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31430	Replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When my colleague Mršić spoke about responsibility and state bodies, I must point out that we had a case from Osijek, which also mentions Mr Glavas, at the skin factory, our returnee from abroad came to the Slavonian skin factory on the basis of the drafts of the then agency, on the basis of the drafts of the then agency, to a confirmed state of society. He made a payment and became the majority owner. After that, within the time limit, both the SDK's then service and the then agency, all claimed that the company's situation was correct, positive, he entered capital. After a few months of getting into society suddenly comes the phantom accent order of the company is, to shorten the story, ended up in bankruptcy. It shows here that there is also responsibility in the then agency, i.e. the Croatian Privatisation Fund as a legal successor. There is also in the then SDK, all those who have confirmed the elaborates, who have invested their blood-earned money abroad, have suddenly lost their property and are trying to get their money back in vain. There's a matter of responsibility. I wonder what kind of message we're sending based on these things to foreign investors, but also domestic investors if they don't have protection? Because his wishes to make a review of the elaborates in the social capital assessment are unfortunately not left or not heard until the day of today. The company is currently in bankruptcy, 300 jobs are lost. This is the responsibility of the state structure, therefore, I would like to hear if one day we get that report, when the Privatisation Fund sent a criminal application against its own employees and how it was resolved for the deception of investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31432	Thank you. And the reply to the replica, the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31433	So I would agree with my colleague, Korenik, exactly what he was talking about and what was an important part of my debate. So again, even today at the Croatian Privatisation Fund there are responsible people who have failed to control what they have approved. And they will continue to implement the privatisation process, especially this accelerated privatisation process that we now have, which is the basis of a signed memorandum with the IMF when it will have to be delivered overnight, adopt various offers. So here is the responsibility of those of us who are state officials to say no, that it is not only the one who did some work, who abused the law, who abused the possibility but also those who failed to warn him about it. If someone said that "Source" in Koprivnica would be instead of a thousand 200 thousand 500 workers after 3 years, and today there are none, then I do not consider responsible only Gucic who did it through his related companies but I also consider the people responsible for the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I consider the responsible people in the government who were sitting, responsible people in the police. Unfortunately, on criminal charges, the court said there were no elements for criminal liability. If there are no elements for criminal liability, there are absolutely certain elements that the person who missed it cannot be a state official and that person cannot work anymore or be paid tax money to Croatian citizens. That's what my colleague Korenika and I were talking about. Not about where more jobs went missing. Every job that's gone is an important job because it's about fate, the human destiny of every man and his family.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31434	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and Mršić and Korenik have, in my position, hurt the Rules of Procedure of this House. Why? The representative may respond pursuant to Article 209, request a word for the replica to respond to the statement of his predecessor. After Mršić finished his replica exhibition, Mr Korenik's representative appears, and in this replica he does not respond to any of the allegations of Mršić's representative, but suddenly refers to the role of alleged and suspected representative of Glavas something about Osijek's Cossack. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure because an agent can respond to the alleged replica of his predecessor, and not in that replica to polarise and accuse another representative. And the representative cannot respond to the presentation of the president, a colleague of Korenik. So, don't go into such, it's already, that game has already been seen in this Assembly, where it goes with such types of replicas and plays both meaning and spirit replicas. Let's move on. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. ... I'm now responding to... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Chief, here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31435	This Regulation shall enter I will answer to the honourable advocate of the liar, Miroslav Korenica when I get a business opportunity on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31436	So you see what it leads to? Why, I, my colleague, have warned you. You have accused and suspected Agent Branimir Glavas of something amoral, illegal, unauthorized through your alleged replica. And now that you get that reaction, you don't have to be surprised. ... It's got something to do with it. It's got something to do with it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't call someone a malpractice, and you can't let him answer that. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, a representative cannot respond to the President's statement You can't, you can't. [[Mr. Glavas, I'm sorry.]] You can't. ... And you can, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand, the speakers speak out loud.]] So this is where you interpret the Rules of Procedure, that you will insult, slander, and then report for, my colleague Arlović, and you must be an old Parliamentarian, so you didn't go to the pitch like that? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mršić. Here you go. The root.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The play, first of all, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Glavas insulted me, didn't even give him a warning showing your soft position in this House. I'm saying that in... you mention Mr. Head and read it. At the same time, I told the Mayor, Glavas, that he was delivering material about his condition and relationships for no time, that he did not commit malfeasance. So forgive me for misrepresenting and maliciously. And for insults you don't answer, it deserves at least a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31438	You can't, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31439	I'm sorry, it's your insolence, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31440	My insolence! I really appreciate it. I should give you a warning, but I won't give you a warning. I won't give you a warning, because these are the low blows you use, you can't use yourself in this way, and let our public know what kind of vocabulary and style, what kind of a concept of parliamentary culture and civilizational behavior the legislator of the Korenika is. Ladies and gentlemen and the Croatian public, you have seen in what way, if I express myself, you have seen, these are such wonderful precedents that the President of the Croatian Parliament says that he is rude because he interprets the Rules of Procedure, because he presents his views. Let's move on. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. There isn't. Here you go. Here, you have the word, Mrs. Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31441	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31442	You have Mrs. Lalic's word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31443	... as a representative of the Club of Representatives. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you to return time so that it begins to flow from now on, without these incursions. Mr. President, gentlemen of the review, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the final report of the State Audit Office that should give us a complete answer to the question, what was going on in conversion and privatisation, who are the actors of this process, who in all of this has polluted the mustache, and how will the perpetrators be sanctioned? What we could conclude after the first report can only be confirmed by the final report. Although finally it does not give a complete picture because the revision covers all of the thousands of 556 social enterprises, which makes up 51% of privatised companies, because they were privatised slightly less than three thousand, if we remember the original report. However, in these 51% of the total privatised companies through the privatisation process, there was a reduction in core capital by almost 4 billion marks. There was a reduction in the number of employees by 386 thousand, making up 60% of the total employees in enterprises at the time of conversion. The direct damage caused by privatisation is certainly much greater than 4 billion marks of the reduction in core capital. Up to the review of 345 companies is either ongoing or bankruptcy proceedings have been opened. Many companies were in bankruptcy at the time of the audit, and today they are in bankruptcy, and there has been a reduction in core capital and new employment, the bankruptcy of employees. To conclude, the real picture is much worse than the one that gives us the report. In May 2001, when the process of reviewing was launched, the public's expectations were that the perpetrators would be exposed, that the culprits would be punished in the criminal proceedings carried out. The revision identified 1936 irregularities of which you imagine as many as 1215 have no criminal character, i.e. laws are not sanctioned. Of the remaining 721 irregularities found, it is suspected that 271 irregularities have the characteristics of the criminal part. 71 criminal charges and 107 reports were filed in the form of a report containing all the elements contained in the criminal application. Reports shall be submitted independently when a penalty has been committed which has the characteristics of the criminal act, i.e. the establishment or the occurrence of antiquity. If we take into account the limitation deadlines, then we'll get data that it's mostly out of date, and in the rest of the part will occur during the process, which means that after 3 years of reviewing conversion and privatisation there will be no or will be punished and in criminal proceedings, that means the shaking hills were born mouse. Although it has undoubtedly been found that privatisation goals have not been achieved, and they are to remind faster economic growth, the preservation of productive employment, technological modernisation, the introduction of new modern and efficient management methods and skills, although it has undoubtedly been found that huge damage has occurred in the privatisation process and that at least 60% of employees have lost their jobs by then, the culprit has not. It is determined who is and how he participated in the original, the initial accumulation of capital, and there is no responsibility for it. In order not to achieve the privatisation goals, it is not possible to find compelling reasons only in the Homeland War. It is true that privatisation began in 91st year when the Homeland War began. It was a complete mistake and a bad political decision to privatise during the war. But when we look at what and how it happened during the privatisation process, it is also not a coincidence and an unintentional mistake. To the so-called. The decommissioning of social property had to come, but apparently there was no intention of decommissioning the way social property was created. And as it was made, there was no unknown. They became former owners, there were workers and former workers, they were workers who had experienced their own self-management system and there was nothing strange about giving up their wages or part of their wages to resuscitate the situation or other investment. But such a way of decomposing social property did not fit into a philosophy known as "200 wealthy families". According to this philosophy, the capital that had until then had to be accumulated in the hands of few, not in the hands of many workers. To do so in a more peaceful manner appropriate times of war, most of them are concerned with the problem of survival. A legal framework has also been created for the realization of the philosophy of 200 wealthy families. If that were not the case, it could not have happened that since 1936 irregularities for even 1215 there is no sign of a criminal offence, i.e. the law does not prescribe sanctions. It was prescribed by law that the acquirer of shares under a signed agreement on the transfer of shares with a edifice payment manages unlimited social capital and disposes of capital companies and disposes of their assets. No one was concerned about whether the contractual obligations were fulfilled, and therefore the shareholders of the shares sold the property of the companies to which they owned. In the absence of a share payment on the assets of the capital company, a loan insurance mortgage was put in favour of the company's capital in the possession of the shareholders. The credits, of course, were realized, but they didn't return it. Stocked property of privatised companies has passed into the hands of banks, and cash of realised loans into the pocket of stockholders. It went even so far that some acquirers of the property of privatised companies transferred it to personal property and entered it in land books and none of it was punishable nor guilty, regardless of the fact that after a few years it was found that the acquirer had not paid off and the transfer contract was broken and the shares returned to the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Of course, capital companies were worthless and now they become only a burden to the state. The penalties for such a thing are not prescribed, and even led to absurdities so that after the termination of the contract due to the non-payment of purchased shares, the previously paid amount was paid back regardless of the company’s acquisition of shares by the company completely deprived, over-indebted, the property was mortgaged, and all of it in its own favor. Although it is evident that a political will has created a legal framework for privatisation as it has taken place itself, this House has no right to passively take it into consideration as the Government has done and to find helplessly that nothing can be done. The damage that has been done not to the Martians but to the workers, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is huge. Staying only at the finding and accepting the impotence means that this assembly of parliament will enter history because it has legalized its impotence to the greatest robbery in Croatia's recent history. Our work isn't easy and the answer isn't small. With respect to all legal developments, fully understanding the current legal possibilities of opinion, I am aware that it is the obligation of this authority to find mechanisms and ways to confiscate illegally acquired assets in the process of conversion and privatisation. In this sense, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will propose conclusions and by voting on it each of us national representatives will show whether he is willing and whether his party has political will to correct the injustices of the original accumulation of capital created by privatisation in the function of reviving the philosophy of 200 wealthy families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31446	Thank you very much. Before this break, let your colleague Josipovic finish these replicas and corrects of incorrect allegations, and you will immediately. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31447	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Lalić incorrectly stated that in the early 1990s a legal framework was created for the wealth of 200 families. This simply does not exist and you have already had opportunities on the HDZ proposal while you were in power to determine which 200 families are concerned, so we would know exactly which lines they come from when you're talking about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31448	Thank you. And another correction by the esteemed representative Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31449	Thank you, Mr. President. The biggest robbery in Croatia's history has been repeated several times already. I'd say that's not true. The biggest robbery in Croatia's history was 45th when communists came to power and the story of 200 families, you had the opportunity to verify it in the past meeting of the government and the Parliament, so you didn't. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31450	And a replica of the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31451	Thank you. Namely, dear colleague Lalić, I don't know when you started to deal with politics and when you started to follow the events around us, but in 89, Vesnik described the very detailed state of the economy in which we were in, a catastrophic state. Most of the companies were already on exhale before, and especially the emphasis was on the next years of overemployment. I can tell you on countless examples where there were more people out of production in manufacturing companies and the opening of the market and finally the fall of the Soviet Union market where our economy was leaned on by the opening of the market has lost many jobs. Not to say that many factories have already been destroyed from the inside because they have assigned jobs to their workers who have opened parallel drives. And there's a lot to talk about, but I don't think we should go to the expansion now. But what's most miserable in all of this, we don't view it objectively. I agree, the thieves needed the ones who deliberately dissuaded, and this was especially obtained in the Soviet Union, 100 billion in one year were drawn on the basis of loans they raised on factories that they bought for cheap money and so on. So, the banks have been devalued. That's what I agree and that's what I should have done. But now we're showing ideal states and it was so far from ideal that I really don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31452	Thank you. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31453	Well, colleague Markovanovic, here's the information for your sake, I started doing politics in the '90s. As far as all of this is concerned, I have not made any claims as my claim, but I have used the data of the State Audit Office that carried it out. In all of this, of course, the only conclusion can be made and only to conclude that it was really designed and why it was designed I said already in my debate of a thousand 900 illicit acts, a thousand 215 were not sanctioned. And here's more evidence, even more evidence, and the president didn't let me say it before. For example, at that time I was a councilman of the County Assembly and were some other colleagues and at that time the County Assembly of Brod-Posavina County was as political options as the Government at the time. In 1996, the county also concludes that privatisation is an evil that has destroyed the County of Brod-Posavina and requests from both the government and the president of the state, both the Ministry of Interior and the State Audit to access the revision and annulment of such privatisation. Of course, those 6 conclusions, which came together throughout 1996, were actually probably thrown into the basket because no one had done anything, and based on these data, I can't conclude anything else but that it was really organized and designed and the form of 200 wealthy families, and I invented neither my party nor my former coalition government, but this form of 200 wealthy families we heard somewhere there in 90 and 91.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31454	Thank you very much. I'd like the Honorable Vice-President of the SDP Club. And I'd like to ask another one of your SDP clubs to take a stand on this statement by a member of your club, Mr. Korenika. I, as the President of the Parliament and chair of these sessions, have given in accordance with my business powers of explanation for the application of the Rules of Procedure, the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that is why I do not have to be right but there is therefore a regular legal path to object in the event of disagreement with the Chairman. It shall decide and give its opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System if the representative disagrees with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman rather than calling the Chairman rude. That's what I think happened the first time in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31455	Mr. President, the Representatives' Club is looking for a break of 20 minutes just to discuss some forms of inappropriate communication in this House and to look at its further work in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31456	Thank you very much. Maybe you'll have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31457	We're moving on with the session. The SDP representative club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic, is the vice president of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31458	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives Club has considered these events since this morning and the debate and considers the topic too important to be exhausted in mutually unnecessary insults to charges, counter-indictions, replicas that have nothing to do with the subject and so on. When the time comes and when this debate ends we will come up with some concrete conclusions that we believe will support anyone who really wants those negative sides of conversion and privatisations that are obvious to be this much or so remedied. But to get back to the scale. The MPs' club is being coerced by the fact that in this House it is possible to call one of the members of the Parliament a liar. We believe that this is inappropriate and that this does not in any case contribute to the quality of the work of the Parliament. We also considered what our member and colleague Korenik had said in relation to Glavas, and we assessed this and it can be verified by phonogram that he did not accuse his colleague, Glavas, of any malfeasance, but that he warned about the content of an idea so that he did not express his opinion on the work and action of his esteemed colleague Glavas. On the other hand, the club of representatives also found that unfortunately in this debate there are no equal criteria for warning, treatment of MPs, right to reply and so on. I ask the President-in-Office of the Parliament to apply the same criteria to all MPs. But also our club's advocates and estimates that our colleague's reaction, colleagues of the Koreans, to the President of the Honorable President Seks, was inappropriate and that the second time needed to be used by the one who predicted the Rules of Procedure. That's why we sort of estimate that the moment is too important for us to get any further exhausted in these tiny little, I'd say, insults and bribery. And we appeal to continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to concentrate on this important topic. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31459	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31460	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, as well as the Croatian Democratic Community club, have analysed the course of this morning's debate in the Croatian Parliament, and I must indeed admit that I expected the SDP representative to apologize first of all to the president of the Croatian Parliament. And I think there was an inadmissible reaction from one of the parliamentary representatives to the president of the Croatian Parliament today. Who deserves all the convictions. The president did not want to say the condemnation by thinking that he would do so to the public, but we expected in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Communities, above all, to protect the institution of the President of the Croatian Parliament which we believe was necessary to protect. Of course there is always a spark among us, of course that we try to glue one or that label to each other and so on, but it is totally unacceptable and incorrect that the institution of the President of the Croatian Parliament is being demeaned in this way and this is for the first time in the Croatian Parliament and I really expected first of all an apology from the SDP Club, but unfortunately that it did not come out clearly that the public will have to judge for themselves what kind of incorrect behaviour in the Croatian Parliament is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31461	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Please continue after these statements calmly. The President can give warnings according to the Rules of Procedure, we have seen that this institute of using these warnings is not functional. I didn't decide there were MPs who needed to make warnings, but the Rules of Procedure said yes. I didn't decide on that possibility. Let's proceed correctly with all possible and political confrontations and evaluations. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31462	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I don't think we should apologize to the SDP Club, I apologize to the President of the Parliament for inappropriate performances. But I have the right to expect and I will expect that the president will not only protect me but also all the other MPs when we are slandered or offended in any way. I still don't think the President of the Parliament did, but no matter what my actions were, it was my fault and an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31463	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31464	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. If someone in this assembly has a moral legitimacy and both the right and the obligation to point out and invoke everything that happened in the conversion and privatisation, first of all we have from the Croatian party of rights. Because our position on conversion and privatisation clearly from 91 to today and in that part has never changed. All parties here, parliamentary, in one way or another, participated in the government, had the possibility of all of what is being said today and, as part of the behaviour of the authorities, to correct, sanction but unfortunately, nothing was done. So, for example, the former coalition that was in power also promised the truth that it would set up prisons, that the money that was sucked out of Croatia would return. And they haven't even changed the Privatization Act. And that's true and that's true, and that's why let's go back to what we got, that's already the 7th report, and that says what's already been said. That it was one huge organized crime, and no one was responsible for it so far. Because the very fact that privatisation and conversion is carried out so that only 10% of the privatisation income makes real money, and 90% make up so-called management loans, i.e. There's not enough money in there to talk. The fact that, unfortunately, in 40% of businesses, the new owner did not invest in the privatisation contract, and that the agency did not take the appropriate measures, but that same agency did the same fund and, for that, it did it on behalf of the state, it even hit that famous seal on 1500 such cases. To which she made it possible to resell shares, something means it was not paid off she made it possible. I wonder where that seal is now who's using it. So in all these situations, what's unthinkable is that you're selling something that's not yours, you got something that's not yours, you didn't pay and you're still reselling. And in the end, that fact happens, and the one who resells it goes into bankruptcy or something else, so you don't know anymore, 4.5 hands. Real estate was lost 386 thousand 675 jobs, that's true. On the other hand, 400 000 were increased in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in the year 90. There are now over a million pensioners. And there's still that very important part, and that's part of this privatisation review that doesn't cover bank audit at all. That's what Mrs Krasic and her crew couldn't do, let's do it. And where's your data? In the Croatian National Bank. In the Croatian National Bank. Let us ask for this information from the Croatian National Bank there we will probably find those 200, 300 people who participated in it, there we will find all the answers to all the cases, that the banks were exactly the ones that allowed the privatisation of all this thieving, whether they were taking interest, whether they had established management incapacitated and everything else. And we can't get to what's giving the answer to everything that's been going on. So let's go back to that part and ask the Croatian National Bank to deliver all that data, and that will be difficult, but we have to do it because we all know that 91% of our banks are owned by foreign banks. We know that Croatian citizens participated, taxpayers in the recovery of all these banks, and so spent in the recovery of huge money from the state budget. Which is later, the banks that have been sold have remained minus over 14 billion kuna. And we can't get in where it's actually all happened. So it's a very dangerous thing if we don't. The other is a dangerous thing to worry about. By accepting this report, we're putting an end to it today. If we put an end to it then we are in a certain way involved in legalising all of it, legalizing all of it, and what all of those who took part in it, who got it, they want it. They want the establishment of a rule of law to legalise everything and then they would continue to fight crime, corruption and everything else. So something acquired by robbery, which has been acquired in an illegal way for us rights never can be legalized. There's no part of it, and it can be obsolete. We have from the 49th Geneva Convention that speaks at the time of the war if the value of social and everything else is diminished, they say that such acts do not go out of date. But I'm saying it's a sad fact that there's no one here today from the government, that there's no State's Attorney's Office, because what's been said here today has been a lot of data for the work of the state's attorney and the state's attorney. Therefore, the situation is such that we must not go over it today. So we suggest that we take this report into account because it is impossible to legalise both before God and before morale, that we are legalizing everything that has happened today, no one has been sanctioned, nothing has been done. And it will eventually come to pass that this effort that Mrs. Šima Krasic made with her team was only an additional cost. Because if we're based on what she showed us today, we're determined not to do anything, then we didn't do anything. So, let's agree whether we as a government take this report to heart, to know and to give it to the government, we have, in the end I'll say on behalf of the club what and how we propose to get out, but we can't legalize robbery and robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31465	Replica, respected representative Marko Turic. I'm just asking you when you lift the plates to keep that plate in the air, I can't follow, nor can the assistant secretary, if she comes out in a tenth of a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31466	Mr. President, esteemed MPs. From what the esteemed representative Kovacevic said, I think there is a segment missing in this process called privatisation in the Croatian way. A little bit of history, I think it would be very good to remember those moments when it was. It was gentlemen in very difficult and challenging times when some thought of well-being. So, there was privatisation from to say social, she didn't go to state. There were demands of this nature at the time. But social property went straight to privatisation. I'm saying that because of this, it's atrocity of privatisation that happened, at the head of these companies, wealth was people found so directors who were until the 1990s. That's the truth and you won't even hear it, that's it. So when we talk all the way about this phenomenon, then I think we should mention that. That was the reason for my replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31467	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31468	I agree with what Mr. Turic said, we just have to add one piece, it was legal, it was socially turned into state and as soon as the fund, or today's agency, played that role. And after that, that fund, that agency hit those seals, and then it was resold even though it wasn't paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31469	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31470	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished chief auditor, colleagues and colleagues. In the opening statement of Ms. Chief Auditor, it is clear that the State Audit Office has accomplished all the tasks that have been given to it by the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation which no one can deny and should give recognition to the Office on a quality mission. However, Ms. Chief Auditor pointed out among them what is reality and what is the fact that the State Audit does not have the authority, as she said for the annulment of the conversion into certain economic operators, societies or the return of jobs. Which is the fact, which is reality, and it's so prescribed by law. The intensity of this law was not to undo certain processes of conversion and privatisation. But the intensities of this law were to make an inventory and this inventory was indeed in one quality way done and that inventory was actually what kept us down, which hurt us and it was actually devastating. And I have to say, this debate can't, it's just that it's clear to everyone that this report is being taken into account. And for that reason, I think that this debate must be concluded by very clear conclusions, by the political views that arise from the responsibility of us as the holder of the legislative authority. And I am convinced that we must find the strength to pass extraordinary laws in extraordinary situations, and if the conversion and privatisation that has left so much evidence on the fabric of Croatian society is not an emergency, then I do not know what is the emergency. And for this reason, my colleague Mato Arlovic, arguing on behalf of the SDP Club, gave clear indications and directions in which this debate should be concluded. To me as a representative in this assembly in the first term, this is the second time we have discussed the report on the work of the State Review on Conversion, Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. So in a year of my representative's term of office, the second truly quality State Audit report. And many of you MPs with a longer parliamentary standing, this is the seventh and final report, and that is what hurts if it passes only by receiving knowledge. I took a look at last year's debate that was conducted in this House on this issue, so among other things, I took a look at my debate that I had at the time, and I wonder if there's anything new to say here today. I don't have anything new to say, and from this debate that has been conducted so far, I can see that we're doing the same thing over and over again, all the MPs depending on which policy options we come from. I'd like to ask myself a rhetorical question, if it's possible to say something new. It is not, because it is evident that the conversion and privatisation was mainly done at an inappropriate time of war when one of Croatia was defended, and the other by Croatia was looted, I do not speak from which. By converting and privatising 386 thousand and slightly more workers, there were no jobs and there were threats to existence, and about 500 thousand more people were retired. The value of former social capital has been reduced significantly. In the vast majority of companies, development programs have not been achieved, honor and recognition of exceptions. The wealth our citizens have been creating for decades has been achieved by some newly-roasted tycoons who have come to these treasures under the law, and very often, despite the law's tardiness, contrary to these laws and such laws, it is of course an honor to those who have come to these treasures in a fair way and who have improved their business. I wonder what happens to a number of workers who have lost their jobs and whose families remain at risk. The other day on Radio Pula, a lady of the middle age who lost her job and received charity, appeared on the show, and she doesn't want a job, and she wants to live with her job with dignity, and these are numerous. She spoke to us from Istria regardless of the political option we belong to and asked what to do. What is the answer to that question, and that question, is these key questions that people ask us when we move amongst people as advocates. She and such people of the assembly debate on this report, a special report in which irregularities have been found in this report, and even criminal acts are not without sanctions, people are asking that we, in accordance with our responsibilities and pass such laws that will allow what has been illegally acquired, to be taken away from me to be honest. It took a long time for the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation to be passed in the Croatian Parliament. It was brought in May 2001, therefore, by coming to the coalition's power because there was no political will to bring it. The State Audit report states that the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering was adopted in 97 and entered into force in 1.1.98 when all transactions had already been completed anyway. This Law on Auditing, Conversion and Privatisation has been widely expected by many Croatian citizens, and I wonder what to do with the State Television report on 1556 companies covered by the revision since the beginning of work until today, and from 1956 or 1957 irregularities and criminal actions that were not sanctioned when property or not seized, when the act of limitations, when fired workers live from charity, when law enforcement and justice authorities do not carry out their duties and finally when the policy that jams is on the stage. We cannot agree with this policy, and that is why it is our responsibility to be explicit in making its conclusions, not taking the report into account. And you see today in this assembly we're discussing a revision of conversion and privatisation with elements of crime. The other day, we discussed a report by the Ombudsman, in which the report has elements of the illegal work of the state bodies, and the day before yesterday we discussed the Anti-Corruption Act, and in these discussions many of us MPs often know how to refer to the doctrine of the church, to the doctrine of faith. We can appeal to a statement from the Bishop's Conference on Sins Structures. We can appeal to the Holy Father's letters and when he stays in Croatia. I think they were clear, the question is how did we understand them and whether we were willing to carry them out and that's the key question. And I'm asking myself if we're really accepting this report without any explicit conclusions actually agreeing to the collapse of all moral and ethical norms. I wanted to say something, but I see that the time is at an end, about the transformation in my Istrian county, but the data is just as catastrophic as in other parts of Croatia, and I will conclude this debate with my view that the spear must not be thrown into thorns and that we must be explicit in making conclusions as far as possible and in this as announced, the club of my party's representatives will propose concrete conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31471	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31472	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, unlike other colleagues, start my discussion optimistically, say this: Thank God we're on the way out of the crisis. Why? Well, we've got our co-workers and fellow self-esteem back, fighting spirit. We could see that during these few hours of debate. There's only one small problem, how to pass this battle on to our people who are in agony in many situations and environments. The road should be next. Now pass it on to the people, organize ourselves into teams not against each other as we do here now but to turn to our teams in solving our troubles for which we all know what they are and what they are. I'm trying to think about the logic of the climate where I was born, from Dalmatia. You know how our Dalmatians would characterize this course of debate, it would be about like this. Be careful how they burn in the Parliament incarcerate themselves. Incartati means push. We're going at each other here with all kinds of accusations, hard words, insults. I think that part of that incarta is going down, and it's going down to those who have absolutely nothing to do with those problems and problems and the failures detected by this report that the state's audit has determined. I need to say one more comment, I'm going to use my own language again, I'd like to visit you for a folk saying. He says in the same society and those who steal and those who hold the bag are just as much trouble as they can see after these six reports, that is, now and the seventh one discussed in this House that no one has yet been determined who stole and who held the bag and how much he kept it. The fact that these are the fundamental problems that we have to give an answer to, and I suggest that we get rid of the dead ends of business and not fool ourselves and our own citizens. I'm asking myself and you what these audits are for. It's been said here that there are six, this is the seventh. I'm about to reason that they serve to cloud and deplete our citizens. Secondly, to serve to warm up false hopes that one day they will win, that citizens will get satisfaction for all that has been done and done badly, etc. Furthermore, these discussions also serve as a basis for mutually accusedness, which we have seen well here today, white-and-white, the entire Croatian public could see. And I see, I think the purpose of these discussions should be to serve as a basis for solving the observed irregularities. And if we're going to discuss this further, infertilely, I say, I suggest we get out of the dead business and I suggest that Mrs. Šima Krasic disband this team of auditors and that we maybe hire them to do some more useful jobs in the state, and not every year produce reports like this, reports are found and nothing is done. My suggestion, colleagues and colleagues, is that this be the last debate on the basis of a report like this. And yet I suggest that we no longer discuss it in this way, rather than discuss why the previous conclusions, which were discussed here, were not implemented and who did not implement them. We need to get reports, find out who's obstructing the implementation of these reports. Because the largest stone of interference in Croatian society, which must have been supported by all politicians in Croatian society, is mentioned conversion and privatisation and results and the mentioned conversion and privatisation. Because every new failure of review, and I consider every new failure to be a failure, means a mere debate, a conclusion that is not carried out, is a new wound in the social, economic and political tissues of Croatian society and Croatian citizens, and so, dear colleagues and colleagues, are eager for the truth. They're a little bit hopeless, but we're also to blame for their loss of hope. Because to promise, and that we are all witnesses, to promise the truth about the return of money, that it will return from various Virgins and other islands. Instead of such a truth, disappointments remained. Why did people get disappointed? Well, with those failed companies, he went into the irrevocable part of their lives. They just wonder what I was doing, why I was doing it, etc., etc. In his book Utopia, English philosopher and sociologist Thomas Moore wrote that during the rounding of small possessions into large affluences, i.e. pastures, which was the basis for the development of the textile industry in England, sheep ate people. What can we do? As politicians, have we eaten the future of a large part of our citizens in this way? If this one, I say, remains only a debate with the conclusions that no one will make, it will be a debate with repeated warming of false hopes of finding the guilty and returning the money and starting to live a better life. And finally, I'm going to end up with one people again, says our people "absorbed, cursed". This is evident in many examples even though the judicial authorities failed to implement and complete the process. Many businesses and many gentlemen who have put their hands on what does not belong to them have failed. Clearly, the hopes of the citizens themselves have failed that they will get a job, that they will live better and better someday. Because if, dear gentlemen, this issue is not resolved, this issue will appear every day of the year in the form of werewolves in Croatian society and will constantly be feared and burdened. Thank you very much. [[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31473	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31474	Our distinguished colleague said, literally, that "the Croatian public could see this debate". The Croatian public could neither see nor hear this debate. Through satellites, this planetary public can monitor this debate, but unfortunately the Croatian public cannot participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31475	Replica, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31476	I replicate the thesis, the pledoaje or the request of my fellow colleagues that dear God solve the matter on the principle of "absorbed, goddamned." And also his attitude that I also, not only replicate my colleagues but it's often a valid attitude, that nothing can be done anymore, even though I know things can't be fixed, but also the weights that he says, let's stop more stories and all will be solved. I met people who lived for 40 years with bitterness, which is their 45th confiscated property. For 40 years, they lived with that bitterness, and they waited for justice to be served and theirs to return to them. We can figure out what we want here, my colleague, but the fact that you're talking about here is an integral part of the consciousness of this traumatized people. It's us here, no matter what we do, to break up, we can't stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31477	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31478	Well, dear colleague Vidovic, I think you misread me. I didn't say it was all over, but I think there's a lot that can be done, but not the way we're doing it right now. Well, people, we've eaten our man's hope, there's a fundamental problem. If this is how the ball is transferred to the left-right then it will be exactly what the gentleman who was mentioned here today said, that "who's yaming, yamio". I don't agree with that. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Royce.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31479	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31480	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I share the views of those who believe that privatisation and conversion are the same as the eastern sin of Croatian society, not because it itself would be wrong. I think that without conversion and privatisation, there is no progress and that those who said that Croatian inclusion in Europe assumed both privatisation and conversion. The question, however, is how it is implemented. As it is being carried out, the state's chief auditor, Mrs Krasic, told us. And I think the conclusions from this report are very clear. However, I must admit that I do not share the enthusiasm of my clubmates and others until the end, with this very report. Because I think, by blaming the Office or by blaming politics or by whose fault, a few important things have been missed. First of all, I think it's a pity that the report has always ended with piles of paper that are all valuable and valuable, but I would remind you of the debate we had here on the State's Attorney's Office Report, Mr Bajic, and I think that as a lawyer, I am now speaking because I know that it is very difficult for lawyers to read 27 thousand 865 pages of the financial report, which the State's Office for Auditing in each of its reports has failed to comply with the obligation under the Criminal Procedure Act, which says that the state authorities are obliged to submit a criminal application by name and last name in the summary. ... Is it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then I apologize for having information different. My second objection is to the finding you made that not every resource was available to you, I mean the business banks. I can understand that it happened, but I think that after you came across the first wall in the bank, you should seek the legislative intervention of this Parliament, that explicitly by law...... Did you ask for it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And then once again, I apologize to you, and I resent us for not reacting to your initiative. And something that I may also unfairly accuse you of, but somehow I miss, it's a matter of money flow. Is it to what extent analysed, at least I didn't notice, the cash-purchasing situation, where did that money come from? I know when the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering was passed and I myself participated in his... but before that there were measures anyway it was actually a procedural law whose effects can be without constitutional consequences and retroactively applied. So I'm sorry that there's no such information, or at least they're not laymen like me when I read a report like this clearly pointed out enough. Anyway, the work you've done regardless of these remarks is impressive and valuable. It's been spent a lot of hours, and I don't want this whole big job to end on that principle we see the new principle right we introduced "who's the pit" I wouldn't want it to end that way. And without now a great accusation of who was guilty, because the whole policy, regardless of which government was at some point, could have done more on that audit to say so and to address these negative consequences, I would say almost nothing was done. I don't think it's all lost to the end. If there was a national consensus in this house, I say national, because these parties represented in the Parliament are representatives of the Croatian people. If there was a national consensus, things could be done legally. In doing so, I do not mean undoing such a thing without the criteria of conversion and privatisation, I mean intervention in those cases where it is clear that the law has been broken and that certain mitigation and resolution of the consequences and that maybe the law has not been broken, because it was the way it was, but it was from the point of view of justice and justice that someone acquired property that was completely inappropriate to its investment. I return to that idea not of criminal tax, not of penalties, but of the fact that someone who is in my court may have different opinions that someone who is in certain circumstances of society acquired an inappropriate or disproportionate wealth, someone in that society must also return to any tax or other contribution to society. So I'm not talking about punishing any perpetrators of crime right now. Unfortunately, as far as punishing the perpetrators of criminal offences is concerned, there is, of course, more complicated, a lot of crimes have gone out of date, and I would say that it has also happened because it may not have always been the right political will for the perpetrators to be punished. I would like to see this debate today result in a conclusion that would call on the government, but also the professional bodies of this House, the Legislative Committee, perhaps some other bodies to consider whether or not we can fix something of the bad that happened in the conversion and privatisation. I sincerely hope there is such a will in all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31481	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31482	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Chief State Auditor. I'm going to quote article 1 again as I did yesterday. The 1996 Privatisation Act. It means "privatisation is part of the overall economic and development strategy and policy of the Republic of Croatia, and it is carried out in order to achieve faster economic growth, to preserve employment productivity, to technologically modernise the Croatian economy, to introduce new modern effective methods and skills of management, to promote the growth of Croatian entrepreneurship, to reduce the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to businesses, to do away with subsidies and to reduce public debt et cetera, et seter. So what of all this is done or accomplished? I've been talking about it for almost two days, and we've concluded a little, rather, almost nothing. First of all, of the 1556 social enterprises that numbered 635 thousand 373 employees, only remains were left with remains. In one word, we all agree that these companies are decimated at least when it comes to jobs, because 386 thousand 675 jobs have been lost. However, this story is not the end. The entire range of companies are run through liquidation, bankruptcy, or surplus resolution, so that we can say that of these 635 thousand jobs without a job or without employment in Croatia, about 430 thousand workers remain or without 70% of employees. And you know what! This trend of reducing employment, i.e. jobs in these large enterprises, will continue to take place. I said yesterday that for me are all big companies that count over 150 employees. And I also know that employment will be conducted exclusively in this country in companies up to 10, 20, 30 employees, that is, if we succeed in attracting representative foreign capital and therefore this small economy, this small economy should be particularly stimulated. I'm looking at Istria, 2001. She had 11 thousand 115 employees. Today, 6 grand in 182. That's 6 to 7%. 69,000 employees in 2001, today 75 grand. Where are the jobs open? Are they opened in large companies, in one Ulnik or in large tourist companies in one Pazinca or do I not know in Agro product from Buzet? No, I don't. It has been opened exclusively in small companies, mostly with these positive loans where the County of Istria has placed as much as 470 million kunas of its own, i.e. the bank's money, and means the policy of encouraging this segment with the attraction of foreign capital is the only representative policy at this time when the economy is in place. True, we must be honest and admit. It is not only the conversion, or privatisation of the cause of the complete collapse of the Croatian economy, it is primarily war, then the fact that one third of Croatia was occupied at the time, that the market, that our companies lost the market of ex Yugoslavia, or that the clearing, the Soviet Union, or Eastern European countries simply did not receive goods from Croatia at one time. Pazika could no longer export wallpaper to Russia, but was exported by Italians. One ceramic factory in Labin could not export its ceramic tiles to Bosnia, or Serbia, where it exported, but some others came to the area and so it simply fell apart. Finally, of these 1556 transformed companies covered by the previous audits, 85 were located in the occupied area and 312 in the war-related area. So almost a quarter of the companies were under direct war influence, and the entire Croatian economy is under indirect influence and we have to admit it. So the conclusion should be. The conversion of privatisations should not have occurred at this most unfavourable moment for the Republic of Croatia at the time of the war. One word of what was happening then since 91, 92, 93, was simply a crime against this country so that we come to the fact that only 75 business entities were privatized according to the findings of the state auditor. However, I am convinced that we all know here, and in particular the state auditor that no such company is privatised under the Law. So from that I said yesterday, that our socialist directors who were then involved in a one-sided conversion and let's say one-third of them didn't have a house or a Golf. That our craftsmen didn't have a hundred thousand marks on the house and a cottage, that the returnees didn't have a million marks, but none of them could afford a luxury to buy their own money and one company. Croatia has passed this unfortunate transition and today whoever has it, who will unfortunately not have it so soon in this country. And those who have over their capital deal with us MPs, ministers, etc. What was to be written in the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation? Saying only one max try to install or defend. You should have asked these gentlemen inside, it doesn't matter, comrades, no matter where you got the money in 1991 or 1992 when we know you didn't have anything or you had the same thing as we did and today you just have everything. That's just the point, and you see that the only important detail in our positive regulations is gone. What is particularly lacking in this report that only Mr Kovacevic spoke of today is how and why the revision of the conversion or privatisation of our business commercial banks is skipped. If someone's interested in reviewing business or I don't know how to convert our banks, then it's IDS and it's for a number of reasons. First of all, to answer the question why some banks in the Republic of Croatia were rehabilitated some and twice, and others didn't, why and how our banks took over the Croatian economy, as tycoons over these related companies took over banks because of the Istrian bank, absolutely IDS is interested in carrying out that audit because the bank was not rescheduled with a single kuna of budget money. What's most important is that today this bank is saved, that liquid, solvent, boring good bank and so it wasn't in 1990 or 1995, and when this Istrian Bank and Zagreb Bank had to write off huge claims and shares to the Uljanik side 31, but I'll talk about it if I have time. And finally, how the privatized banks are so that today they're in 90 percent and more of the property of foreigners. It's not a problem to privatize a bank that's failed. The problem was to privatize the rehabilitated bank. What is most important in the recovery of the banking system is 19.5 million kuna, I said no kuna in Istria. If it had failed, it would have been a billion and a half kuna. Mostly the burden fell on cities, municipalities, municipal companies from Istria at a time when they collapsed in order to commercial County, etc. banks. How did banks on the other hand take over the company? Once again, a political decision has been found here. That was the 1996 VONS decision. Credits would then get high and because of the desire for business managers to keep their relationship with the business bank to agree to banking conditions and, suddenly, the banks took over the entire economy, mainly in Istria tourism plus the PIFs, and eventually sold it all instead of returning the property to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. Today we can talk about everything, but gentlemen are late and it's a Croatian tragedy. And I will support everything that will lead and the process of "nationalization" of that property. What the Croatian revision today does with 10 years of delay, in a way beatify all these procedures. This report is the defeat of Croatian politics and those by 2000 and those between 2000 and 2003 and this policy. No matter what extraordinary laws we will question property and 17 thousand jobs of Todorovic. Let it go to waste, the state of Croatia will collapse along with it, which is a note of bene and a guarantee of those 250 million marks, dollars or euros that it took in Brussels or London in 2000. And it's the gentlemen of Croatia's simple tragedy. Tragedy is in all this and our pensioners, but I'm afraid we won't achieve anything but IDS will support anything that will lead to correcting a great historical injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31483	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31484	Mr. President, the state's chief auditor with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues! I've decided to say a few words anyway, even if the time has passed, and at least I'm almost at the code, actually with every one of these reports, and I've said something about this process. The process of conversion and privatisation is one of Croatia's most painful political and economic issues. He was politically directed, it is seen from this reportable, inadequately supervised and controlled, and the established illegalities have left most of the unpunished. But when we passed the Law on Conversion and Privatisation and its implementation at the time of our people's most serious war casualties, we, the SDP, pointed out the inappropriate model and the time in which it was conducted, and if memory is not deceived, were the only club that voted against the adoption of such a law. However, this did not prevent the single state of property created by generations of workers and accelerated privatisation. Small receipts and uncertainty not only of existence but also of naked life have prevented, in fact, the vast majority of those who have created these values throughout the working life to stay out of it. And the question arises who profited. Today this question is even deplaced to answer. But maybe we should remember how our neighbors did it. A country that came from the same Yugoslav mile. The biggest earthquakes of economic Slovenia passed exactly at the time we were privatising. There was no war, but the companies were rehabilitated. Those who were deemed to have no market product and had no perspective went bankrupt. And the privatisation started at the moment when it was over with us. At a time when something else could have been done to prevent the disintegration of many economic operators that almost destroyed the Croatian economic sector, it seemed almost nothing. The thought of reviewing the process, rather than sanctioning the credentials of poor privatisation, was also persistent. The proposal for a Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, proposed by our club there in the 1990s but therefore changed, but therefore the criminal legislation was changed, some of the crimes in economic business were abolished and the deadlines of limitations were cut. The inefficient judiciary, the lack of laws that often do not have the prescribed sanctions, favour the emergence of conversion and privatisation innovations, the consequences of which are company bankruptcy, labour market workers, creditors without the possibility of collecting claims. Among them is one as the greatest believer and state. The Law on Conversion and Privatisation has established the objectives of this process and the implementation of the objectives outlined is catastrophic, I will say so through several statistics identified by the revision. These are dry figures, dry statistics, but behind each of these data are hundreds of thousands of people's fates of people who, in the end, have often remained almost without existence. So, the conversion involved 2,000 911 social enterprises. They were then assessed by their social capital according to the labs found to be worth 28.2 billion German marks. The revision through this final report shows that there are a thousand 556 social enterprises, but it should be said that over 2,000 related companies have been audited there and that the entire coupon privatisation has been revised. So, a total of about 86.5% of the total core capital of all the companies that participated in privatisation, and the conclusions that are based on this report are accurate and adequate for the whole process. And now here's a few statistics. The core capital of this company is reduced by 16% or more than 4 billion marks. The number of employees decreased by 61% or 386 thousand workers. Workers who in 36% of the companies were majority shareholders now after the audit process were 13% of the cases or 63% of the cases. Only 15% of the companies achieved development programmes. The government, meanwhile, has rehabilitated companies with 97 companies with a total of 8.8 billion kuna but a successful recovery has been carried out in only 7 such companies. The bankruptcy went to 345 companies or every fifth company that was audited. Less than 5% of the audited companies carried out these two processes without irregularities. What else happened to what might have been fixed maybe. The estimated value of the companies is not included in the assets of 485 million marks, it might be interesting to see how it was managed and how the profits have also been realised from this, and especially to address this by taxes. DA's less estimated assets worth 124 million marks, so where are the undervalued prices. That overestimated liabilities from revolving loans amounting to 356 million marks. I'll only tell you on one example, let's say, Pic Neretva from Obuzen, who paid off the loans that were 76. In 97 and 80, in 87 and 80 years, she paid off together with interest payments to the Economic Bank through a revaluation of more than 11 million 600 thousand marks and thus the economic bank became one of the shareholders of this company. It is also interesting that the assessment did not include land of 2.8 million square meters, and construction facilities of over 89 thousand square meters, that neither the state audit could determine the value because it could not reach unit prices to convert it into a value of core capital. We really must ask the Croatian Privatisation Fund to report what they did in which way this part of the property was excluded and returned to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Therefore, on the basis of such data, the State audit identified 1936 irregularities. And now, for me, one amazing piece of 1215 cases does not have the mark of a criminal offence or, for the most part, no sanctions are prescribed at all. As a legislator, we must ask ourselves, so what kind of laws we have been making in those 15 years, and what kind of laws we may still be making today, which, if the offender does not carry out in the act, there is no sanction. And we really need to ask ourselves now is this the end of the revision of conversion and privatisation. The state audit has done everything and we have to give her credit because it was her extraordinary job. It is now up to us to disagree with the government's opinion that this should only be taken into consideration. We, as the most legislative body in Croatia, must say that we have received a report denying all those who did not want to see criminal acts in this process. And so we really have to do everything to sanction at least one part of what is possible. To somehow restore the faith of the people that the Croatian Parliament can still pass such laws and regulations that will benefit the citizens. I think there's a general consensus between our citizens. There should also be a consensus of political will for us here sitting in the Croatian Parliament. And I think we have to do it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31485	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31486	Mr. President, my colleague and colleague, this is where and where more beautiful to hear from the aula and lobby is obviously about the success of our skiers. BUT allow me to say, hoping I won't exaggerate, following this paper of this report that we have today at the hearing as the final and final report. I would say that there is only one thing for our society more tragic and sadder report that is about the number of dead, missing and wounded Croatian defenders and citizens of Croatia in the Homeland War. And according to its disastrous effects and consequences, this report is about what was actually happening in the modern Croatian state, Croatian society. It really has the extent of cataclysm. They're going to say today by one of their colleagues that it was a real Tshunami. Yeah, after the consequences. The consequences were indeed inflicting mud, destruction, destruction, and eradication of all that was created. But I can't agree with the comparison that it was a tsunami, because a tsunami is a natural disaster. And Croatian privatisation was a privatisation made according to a consciously chosen concept. So she's aware she's chosen and she's legal. The very fact that in Croatia we opted for one model. The truth in a time where there were no historical examples of such processes. When this problem was faced with other countries in transition. When it was not quite reliable and clear where and how it would end the process of conversion and privatisation. That a model was brought in that was then warned about what the consequences would be. I remember in the autumn 92, a group of professors from the Faculty of Economics did not have here Mate Church, brought the basis of probably, studied experiences of the Czech Republic and Slovenia that were in this process one model that could have prevented these catastrophic shelling consequences of the privatisation process in Croatia. I remind you that at the beginning of the 1990s, at global level, so-called. The Washington Consensus in which it was established I would say the general consensus that privatisation and conversion are necessary processes. Where objectives were defined, both economically and politically and socially, which were intended to be achieved by conversion and privatisation in transition countries. In the economic area, we wanted to achieve the efficiency that we did not have in the state ownership system, to achieve profitability, to achieve the development of dynamic, to develop entrepreneurship competition, to develop financial markets, to reduce budget expenditure, to increase economic stability. These were the objectives achieved by all transition countries at that time. From the political goals, the point was to privatise, deetatize the economy, strengthen democracy, strengthen social stability, remove the influence of the old political nomenclature. And ensure social stability, social integration and social peace on the social side. What happened? Most of the countries of the new Europe, the current Union, have well realised these goals. They have well realised these objectives and can bear witness to the fact that they had had a level of economic development beyond or beyond the socialism period in the late 1990s, 96th, 97th. When it comes to Croatia, Moldova, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, Albania unfortunately did not happen today. The sociologists and economists involved in the analysis of privatisation processes introduced one term, so-called Distorted effects of conversion and privatisation. What are these effects? It's a gray privatisation zone, deliberately bringing companies into bankruptcy, it's a phenomenon of corruption in the privatisation process, it's an acquisition of profits by new management, it's a fictitious capitalisation, it's a transfer of former state ownership into the hands of political constituencies and clients, it's the unprotected rights of small shareholders, it's an increase in the unemployed, etc., etc. The social consequences of these privatised privatisations are increasing social decomposition, unemployment, rising poverty, especially workers, pensioners. And here, as a special tragic consequence, I would point out the enormous negative moral effects for Croatian society. So this dreamy state, for centuries, has been welcomed as a country where people at the time when they died for the country were left without their jobs just at the same time that it was being established and created by a small narrow very powerful group in the world and European proportions of people who adopted it. Moral consequences are that we still feel today, the general mistrust of the government, the institutions of the system, the infidelity of our own possibilities, the infidelity of social justice, the creation of an anti-enterprise climate, the same if you want even an anti-privatisation mood that is dangerous for a country that has been identified as a liberal and market economy. It's a social frustration that burdens these people. And today, I'm surprised when in the debate, if that's what it really is, if in the public change studies that showed that the citizens of this country were asked what the expected results of privatisation were, and what is the rank of achievement. They place first the preservation of jobs as a rank, in the rank of preference, and in the rank of achievement they perceive as 17th place. Job well-being elsewhere, rank 18. The righteous division of wealth that created the third rank of desire, the 19th rank of achievement. The last thing Croatian citizens expected was the wealth of a small number of people without extra work, and the rank of achievement no. 1. As they perceived who were mainly the winners of the conversion, 60.7% of the ruling party's members, the managers of privatised companies 51.5%, managers of state and public enterprises 37%, politicians 33, officials and officials 29, while the biggest losers were farmers, workers, scientists, cultural workers, etc. It's a picture of what we're talking about today. I'm amazed at all those who are trying to relativize these devastating effects. And it's really a fundamental question what we're getting right now. What now? I think, and I'd rather not say yes to the knowledge. The co-responsibility of us who here mostly have no responsibilities would thus, we would become co-responsible. I know when a bike is stolen, when it's broken down to a governor, wheels, pedals, etc. And when it's found and reassembled, it's not the same. If it's done after 10 years, especially then it's not the same. But there's no defetistic attitude here that says there's nothing more to be done. This is the 7th report, we had the conclusions, we should put them, my suggestion, put them back on the pile. We, like this generation and politicians and as Parliamentarians, must end this story in a legal way, we have our Committee on Law and, in that sense, let the conclusions be drawn as a result of the debate we had today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31487	Thank you very much. An individual debate has been concluded. Club debate, five minutes. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honored deputy president Djurdja Adlesic on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31488	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really think differently from some colleagues who regretted that our citizens could not watch or listen to this debate. And I also don't think there's any profit from the fact that some discussions could have listened. I think there's something wrong with the technique. ... It's okay now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. So, the failure to look at us in part definitely does not exist, but it is a pity that they had to look at the debates on the investigative committees, which will have to listen to the report and the debates when these reports arrive, and it will hardly be of any use. And it seems to me, let it really be my opinion, that we deal with ourselves the most successfully. This report, which covers three and a half years of work, and we all claim that the quality of work and the report that was before us, could actually be evaluated according to the results of this work, or according to the measures that will be taken after this report. Three and a half years of hard work, and we found out that the crime and irregularities we've been looking at these years were far less than we thought. I doubt what we could read. And even worse, the perpetrators of these acts, they're probably not going to get anything done, which is due to old age, which is because of unsaid legal regulations, which is because of the known situation in the judiciary. And it might really be fairer to tell the citizens of Croatia that the infamous attempt to revise conversion and privatisation has failed, because it seems to me that we are moving on with demagogy. The data we could see and the estimates of the failure of conversion and privatisation, the reduction of capital value by more than 16%, the drastic reduction of the total number of employees we know, the opening of bankruptcy in more than 22%, the failure of development programs more than 64% and now we're going to look at the other side of the story. Who did the state sell these companies to? As a rule, it was said that they were employees, but they were actually directors of today's socialist companies. Where did they get the money? They basically pulled out of these same companies. Now we need to be honest if the state knew that. Well, of course she knew, they weren't even wondering where their money came from. And now we're going to succeed in transforming and surviving bought societies in fact necessarily lead to a direct dependence on the customer's ability to cheat on their own country, I think that's what needs to be said. So after this, we could come up with a saying that little thieves get their heads off, and the big hat, and we should be doing it all week in this House instead of the truth, the infamous attempt to revise conversion and privatisation, and almost nothing will happen to anyone but cheap demagogy that can be a short-term profit. It would therefore be really wiser to make a decision, to finally move towards more healthy topics, to create more favourable economic conditions, and even for those who have managed to survive this transformed privatisation period and to take measures to recover this surviving economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31489	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Retirement Party club, Honorary Representative Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31490	Your Honor, Mr. President, distinguished gentlemen from the audit, honourable MPs. The conversion of privatisation, the nice promise of a better life and prosperity, and shortly after that, the statements, the findings, the robbery of the century, the robbery of the millennium, and not to mention everything else. But not to say so harshly, this is indeed a unique example of how to take away his work and how to take away his fundamental human rights. What happened? A lot of money went into a small hand, and a little money was left in a lot of hands. Unfulfilled economic effects by privatizing, the disappearance of 400 thousand jobs transferred of course to the burden of the pension system, and then today we say 14% is the participation of the pension system in the state GDP. And it's not gentlemen, these 400,000 were supposed to stay working in some way, so then it wouldn't be 14% but it would be 9% or 11%. Next, we don't know what was going on in the banks, we don't know what happened to the property that didn't enter the underlying capital, we don't know where these nearly nine billion kunas of restitution funds went missing, and how today we explain to the citizens where their past work went. How to explain to citizens that, from their work contributions to the creation of material goods today, when they have stopped working or will soon cease to work, they cannot settle their basic needs for life. For example, I'm going to say that there are 38 thousand pensioners in my county, and 11 grand of those 38 grand has a pension lower than a thousand kuna. Of course there are other categories of citizens, but I'm only setting this as an example. And how to explain to these people now that for the third time they need to bear the greatest burden of creating and stabilising the Croatian state. How can they be explained that their receipts according to all the documents we have brought so far need to be even smaller in the future. Example works, indexation, Swiss formula. Gentlemen are not interested in Swiss or Turkish, they are interested in how they will survive in the future. And not for a long time, it's been said a lot about the issue of privatisation, it's a lot said and what has to be done, but it's certainly one thing to ask that this chapter of privatisation of this today's session is not over and that this issue has to be resolved programically. There are state institutions, there is a government and in the end there is a Croatian National Assembly that needs to change or pass laws that have created these negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31491	Thank you very much. HSP representative club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31492	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chief Auditor. Here's a couple of HSP comments in this final five-minute club where we'd actually like to express our views on this problem at all and on how we see the solution. So I will speak on behalf of the HSP club or so that dear colleague Luka Bebić would say on behalf of the credible, so those who did not participate in the privatisation, and I usually use that word: "privatisation", I prefer it to the word "conversion" because it turned into someone else's, and then some may call it privatisation, and some may call it a robbery. First of all, one word about so-called. A myth about the 200 richest families. How it is impossible to come to this and how it is actually impossible to investigate what it is, so anyone who claims that it is impossible to refer first of all to a large part of the data provided by the Office for Business Research, which has been published for years by the ranking of 500 most successful companies, and the ownership of these companies is easy to check through the Register of Trade Courts. Secondly, it should finally be made clear once that according to this report, the main state auditors on privatisation processes are quite clear that the largest tycoons in Croatia are, in fact, banks and, in particular, banks, of course, located in foreign hands today. Secondly, the vast majority of privatisation as we can see from this report was actually illegal. Unlawful acquisition of property has its own name and is called robbery. Whatever you want to call it, when you illegally acquire property, it's a robbery. You can get him, if you get him with a gun threat, if you get him without a gun threat, then it's just a robbery, but it's always a robbery. And if this review report shows it, then it's a completely unequivocal fact. If such a crime, as many claim, of many of these crimes, has become obsolete, we at the HSP Club can say, "Okay, it's out of date, we can no longer put these thieves in prison, but we can and must challenge the right to property that they acquired illegally." Therefore, the HSP will not give up on the task, and the task of challenging the right to property acquired illegally and if we cannot condemn them anymore, we will try and try not to let them enjoy the fruits of their robbery peacefully because it is possible. The HSP Club therefore proposes in the procedure the Law on the Verification of Property under which any one who wishes to dispose of the property acquired during privatisation will first have to prove the way in which he acquired that property. Whether it was legal or illegal. I would also like to stress here that according to the 1949 Geneva Convention, the crimes of reducing the value of state and social property do not go out of date during the war. They never get old. And already at the next session of the HSP Assembly will propose a complete solution to this problem in terms of both international law and this Law on Property Verification. In other words, what we in HSP are saying and we want to do is that it will never be worth the famous colleague of our fellow Royce "who's yaming, yaming". 'Cause it can be done and it can't get old. For the end, I just want to say the position of the HSP Club on the report. We will ask that after this debate on this report we do not decide by voting, to postpone the vote, and for the simple reason that, before voting on this report, we would jointly find a way to achieve this all I have said, which is to challenge the people involved in the robbery, to enjoy the fruits of this robbery. And only then can we accept the review report as such because otherwise everything will go under the carpet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31493	Thank you very much. SDP representative club, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31494	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. By discussing, here, the second day of this report, we've definitely got a list of the facts, the fact that it crushed us, and many seem to have surprised us. Not because they did not expect such phenomena but because they appeared on such a large scale and in such a large number. And in a situation like this, we as a Parliament, as a representative body of citizens and the holder of the legislative authority, must actually decide what to do. What to do now when it is finally clear that in the conversion and privatisation happened not only the bad laws by which it was implemented but also that these bad laws were not respected and that this conversion and privatisation in the current course was generally implemented in a way that they had acquired and committed offences, crimes, crimes, crimes, and that we are not talking about disrespecting legality. Where no penalties are prescribed under the laws themselves. It also raises the question of whether we can reconcile with the fact that we learn the truth, that in the conversion and privatisation of 95% of the assets privatized and converted through shares and shares. In a way illegal, and at the same time we are aware that what has been illegally acquired has been nothing since the beginning and that we actually support it and accept such a finding and such a fact. It also raises the question of what kind of responsibility is possible if outdated deadlines have taken place in criminal, criminal, criminal, criminal parts? Probably, we can hardly discuss the conduct of these procedures. They may begin, but by making the objection obsolete, they will have to stop. However, surely, we cannot avoid the political responsibility that is upon us and cannot avoid material responsibility for those who have committed illegality and who have actually illegally acquired this property from the way to the annulment of privatisation, through the annulment of harmful contracts, until the return of everything else. In addition, it is a very important issue, colleagues and colleagues, which we from the SDP are trying to indicate, which is the fact that all the fundamental values of our constitutional order on which the constitutional order rests have been brought into question, in fact, by this report. For this reason, in talks with colleagues from the HSS Club of Representatives, HNS, SDP together with them, and on the basis of Article 129. The Rules of Procedure propose the conclusions to be drawn by this Assembly. First of all, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Fund are committed to delivering within 90 days to the Croatian Assembly an indication of the Report of the State Audit Office on the revision of the conversion and privatisation carried out with special emphasis on the observed gaps for each individual company of capital. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament proposals for legal solutions which will allow compensation for damages incurred in the process of conversion and privatisation, with the possibility of confiscation of illegally acquired assets and the annulment of unlawfully implemented conversion, i.e. privatisation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also obliged to propose to the Croatian Parliament a new Privatisation Act that would also prescribe privatisation under the EZOP model, in order to establish working stockholdership in cases for which its justification will be prescribed by law. Thirdly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for legal solutions that will oblige business banks to supply data on financial transactions in the conversion and privatisation of capital companies where irregularities have been identified and to enable audits and conversions of banks to be carried out. Fourthly, the Croatian Privatisation Fund undertakes to provide the Croatian Parliament with information on all cash payments for the purchase of shares and shares in the privatisation process, and on cases where it has given consent to the acquisition of assets and businesses for the purpose of taking credits bought by the shares and the share of the same company. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you can see, these 3 clubs do not consider that the discussion of the revision of the conversion is over but they believe that this is the basis on which the Croatian Parliament has an obligation to pass the relevant laws under which it will sanction everything that was illegal in the conversion and privatisation in Croatia. Hurt the Croatian state and the Croatian people and workers of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31495	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Zlatko Tomcic, the club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31496	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We at the HSS Club estimate that after this debate we have not accidentally approached the answer to the fundamental question how to proceed. It's still not clear from this debate what we're going to do now. The question was logically imposed because the final report's data do not give this House the right to make easily and formalistic conclusions that do not go into the scale of things, such as the conclusion of the Government, which is certainly irresponsible to this topic that we are talking about. And the meter is next. 22% of the companies went bankrupt. 386 people lost their jobs. 4.82% of procedures have been conducted legally, and I will translate this into another data, 95.18 procedures are illegal, 95.18% of conversion and privatisation procedures are illegal. Too bad about the state, pensioners, defenders, small shareholders, etc. Probably over 100 billion kunas, probably. Those who are upset and angry when this is spoken of may be angry as much as they will but these are facts. These are facts that simply cannot be overcome. I'm personally sure that today we're not ready to end up with such a big subject burdened with great emotions in the most favourable way. The HSS Club therefore believes that this home must take time out, that it must take some air, that I must repeatly call for help from those who are not burdened with this matter, ethics, moralists, legal experts, economic experts, the public through surveys, through referendums, I do not know in what way, but these are all possibilities so that we can consult all those who did not get dirty in conversion and privatisation and how to get out of this greatest evil. Evil is called 95.18% of illegal proceedings. I am personally prepared regardless of the criticism of me and my club, I am prepared to participate in the agreement of parliamentary parties on finding a way out of this situation. It may be necessary to extend the powers of the Audit Office, perhaps the revision should continue and there are over a thousand more to those companies that are not covered by this revision. Perhaps we should continue the audit over both the banking and insurance systems. I think we answer all these questions that may be available to us today are not frames to give, nor in this sublime atmosphere, nor in these intense emotions, sore anger and insults, and facts stand on the table that this was a crime and a robbery. And we can't burden ourselves, let's say, let's say we take 30 days to get out. Let us try to consult those we consider to be consulted and try to agree on other important issues with some consensus of national parliamentary parties on what to do. We're willing to take part in that. In the event that this proposal of mine is delayed from voting on any conclusions, we have reached conclusions. President Mato Arlovic, vice president of the home, has just read the joint conclusions of HSS, SDP and HNS. We will certainly vote on them if this proposal is rejected. However, I think it would be wise and wise not to be burdened. We delayed if you remember and vote on the HSP's request to interrupt the project "The Company" and "Adria". Well, it's not like "The Company" and "Adria" is a bigger problem than conversion and privatisation, so let's put this off. I stress once again on behalf of the club, we are ready as a club to participate in conjecturing further. But we are not prepared to agree to carry this burden, ethical and moral degradation of society caused by conversion and privatisation, and we of the HSS Club add the biggest robbery since the creation of the state. Whoever wanted to be angry with the robbery, but it was still a robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31497	Thank you very much. Does Chief State Auditor Sima Krasic want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31498	The work report on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation. And the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. That's where it was carried out. That's where we have the next situation. On the one hand, we have a proposal for conclusions of the Club of Representatives of the HSP and we have a proposal for conclusions of clubs, a harmonised proposal for SDP, HSS, HDZ, HSU, IDS, National Minorities Club, SDSS and HSLS. Therefore, this proposal for a conclusion that is in line with all clubs except for a separate proposal of the HSP Representatives Club and the IDS Representatives Club. HNS, yes, excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse the IDS. The CNS did not conform to this conclusion proposal. So, I'm going to vote on a proposal for a conclusion from these clubs that I just read, so all clubs except HNS and HSP. Please come in. We can vote. The result? I find that the proposed conclusions have been accepted with 101 votes and 7 abstentions, and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-03-0.u31499	And we still have a proposal for a conclusion from the club of representatives of the HSP. Please come in. We can vote. The result? I find that in favour of vote 4, 24 is abstention and 73 against. So the proposal for a conclusion didn't go through.
