ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33096	...to continue with the session. I wish everyone a good morning and a successful weekend start. We're going to the 9th point of the agenda. - Proposal for a Resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia – You received the proposal from the Association of HSP Representatives of the Proposal for an Act by mail. In the case of a resolution, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr. Representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33097	The negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia are coming to a debate in the Croatian Parliament at a time when the issue of neither the separation at sea nor the savings of Croats in the Ljubljanska Banka, nor the demilitarisation and occupation of St. Gera, nor the problems with co-ownership in Krško's nuclear power, but not only that. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] Problems with Slovenia arise even where people would not expect them, so Croatia has recently been in the so-called The truck war with Slovenia. Both countries simultaneously swear to good neighbourly relations on a common path to the European Union and therefore we hold that it is necessary for Croatia on its part and its negotiators to have a firm document that would be their guide in negotiations with the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to remind here at the beginning of the fact that it's late 1998. HSP representatives' club in the parliament's meeting at the time submitted its Report on the State of State Relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia which then caused a heated debate here in the Assembly. There has been a downside to this report or to the claim that HSP representatives are exaggerating in their assessments, i.e. that relations with Slovenia will not develop in this way. But like many times so far, this report has actually been completely affected because everything that has happened in relations with Slovenia is in its own way foreseen in this report. And that there will be problems with Krški, and that there will be problems with the demilitarisation and occupation of St. Gera, and that there will be a continuation of the savings problem, or that border problems will arise and escalate regardless of which furniture in Slovenia is in power. As a result of the parliamentary debate, which was held at the time in 1999, the Declaration on the State of State Relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia concluded that before any negotiations with Slovenia, the Croatian Parliament must give the negotiators, or the Croatian Government, a kind of salary or a kind of framework for negotiations with Slovenia on the basis of which these negotiations will be conducted and the basis of which the representatives of the Government are obliged to regularly submit reports to the Parliament on how these negotiations are under way, on all these controversial points. The fact is that during the debate, Croatia signed more than 30 agreements with Slovenia since the then Croatian government in 1999. To date, that number may be higher, but all these agreements concerned those parts of interstate relations that are indisputable, say the Agreement on scientific cooperation, the Agreement on cooperation in the field of culture and so on. The real problems have arisen in those areas in which it was either state property or state border, or some problems such as saving Croatian citizens have been completely unnecessarily complicated and brought into a state of total congestion and through the will of the Slovenian parties. But what we observed in our report at the time in 1998 is unfortunately today, and that is what we want to warn you about, and that is what is crucial in this resolution, which is, on the one hand, that Croatia has no reason to deviate from international law and that in all disputes, it must stick to the provisions of international law. The moment Croatia steps out of the safe framework of international conventions and international agreements we are in the deleted policy area and then various concessions are possible, then various compromises are usually at the expense of Croatia. Why the harm of Croatia? That's why I want to remind you here, and that's what we said back then and in 1998 here in the Croatian Parliament, because the Croatian side from 1998 to today is almost always independent of who was the foreign minister and who led the government agreed to talk to Slovenia in so-called "Switzerland". the package, so that the same package of negotiations included demilitarisation and the end of St. Gera's occupation, and the border at sea, and savings in the bank, and the problem of the nuclear power plant in Krško. Then the border at sea gave way to solving the problem of the Ljubljanska banka, giving way to the Ljubljanska banka to solve the problem of St. Gera, gave way to St. Gera's problem to solve other problems, and in the end we were brought into a situation that Croatia had given its own for its own, or by giving in one place to solve it in order to get a third, in order to get a fourth, came into a truly amazing situation. In short, Croatia has been led by such a concept of negotiations to trade its sea for Slovenian nuclear waste. It is actually the best description of the current course of negotiations with Slovenia. In the meantime, things weren't of course left to themselves. The 97th was signed and ratified by the Border Transport and Cooperation Agreement. This Agreement is in its Article 47 here I remind you that it is here in point 3. The resolutions referred to in Article 39 should stand at 47. Agreements on border transport and cooperation. This article allows Slovenia and its fishermen to fish to half of the western coast of Istria. Even then, as many times later, we claimed that this was in complete violation of the Convention on the Law of the Sea because of Article 19. The Convention on Law must clearly define what a harmless passage is. The harmless passage that all Slovenian fishermen have right through Croatian waters, includes everything but fishing, all except fishing, submarines, if they have them, must be on the surface, they have no good. Warships must announce their passage, from warships, or warships to take off and land planes, no anchors, no stops, no fishing. Croatia completely unnecessarily allowed the fishing of Slovenian fishermen in the Croatian territorial sea in 97th, and thus actually went hand in hand with those circles in Slovenia that followed the creation of special circumstances at sea. Since 93, since the adoption of a famous memorandum on the Piran Bay, the Slovenian side has insisted that the border change be changed at sea. I will quote one sentence here, let me quote just one sentence from the memorandum on Piran Bay adopted by the Slovenian Parliament in the middle of the war in the Republic of Croatia. So, literally: "The Republic of Slovenia stands for the preservation of the integrity of the Piran Bay, under its sovereignty and judication and for the exit to the open sea on the basis of the permitted criteria of international law and respect for the specific situation of the Republic of Slovenia. This whole thing together is a complete nonsensence, it's total nonsense and has nothing to do with international law. Slovenia has the possibility of a safe passage through Croatian territorial waters in the same way that we sail through any other people's territorial waters. Those who want to sail to Ukraine must pass through the territorial waters of Greece and Turkey, there is no choir. But for us, it is particularly worrying that the Republic of Slovenia is the one who stands to preserve the integrity of the Piran Bay under its sovereignty. So to claim such a thing rather than encourage any reasoned debate among the neighbouring countries and to claim such a thing and not to have a foothold in international law is harmful to good neighbourly relations and therefore it is necessary for Croatia to at least show its sobriety and firmness there. Since the adoption of the Memorandum of the Piran Bay in the Slovenian Parliament, Slovenia has sought at all costs to occupy the entire Savardijska wave called the Piran Bay and move the border to get access to international waters. To this end, Slovenia seeks to create a state of special circumstances in the Savardian wave and elsewhere in the Croatian territorial sea. They are supposed to protect their fishermen who have been given legal fishing in our territorial sea. He also contributed to all of this by the unfortunate, so-called. The paraphrased agreement between the Government of Ivica Racan, Janez Drnovsek, is the fact that this agreement is an international legal non-existent document, it is not signed, it is not ratified, it cannot serve as an interstate agreement but it is also a fact and that it may be, we fear, can cause difficulties in a particular interstate dispute on one of the international courts. All in all what it does to this agreement that the Slovenians should be left to almost the entire Piran Bay, i.e. the Saurdian Wave, except for about a hundred meters along our coast plus one strangely defined triangle of the sea and the international legal phenomenon of the corridor etc. to international waters, therefore for the sake of this initial agreement, which does the signed and ratified 97 agreement, which makes Slovenian ambitions to create at sea special circumstances in which no one drinks, who pays, therefore, who is allowed to fish and who is to patrol in the summer of 2002, the Slovenian police launched a maritime conflict in the Savardian waves. We can speak in code here, but in 2002, what was happening in the Savardian spring and what was happening with the interruptions later and so on in October and November and September last year is actually a copy of the cod war between Iceland and Great Britain. That's how ladies and gentlemen good neighbors don't behave, that's not how those who don't understand international law of the sea behave, and I mean, of course, our neighbours in Slovenia. For all these reasons, the club of HSP representatives decided to make this resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia. That resolution was signed by me personally and by Professor Slaven Letica at Kočarica Bukva in the Savardian Strain exactly on the middle line. The same Kočarica was stopped tomorrow by the Slovenian police in our waters in revenge for signing the Savurdian memorandum. But this should not prevent all of us ladies and gentlemen from having a cold discussion of this resolution today to adopt it and thus give our negotiators an even clearer basis for negotiations with Slovenia. On the condition that one important condition is that what is practice in the Slovenian Parliament is finally happening in the Croatian Parliament, which is that their negotiators listen to the instructions of their parliament and report to their parliament what has not been the case with us so far. I will believe that this will be the future HSP proposing the next resolution on the principles of the interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia. First, in the interstate demarcation at sea in the Savardian bay, which Slovenians call Piran Bay is unacceptable for Croatia's deviation from the middle line. Since the Republic of Slovenia has never had in its power the coast of Savudrija, nor has any interstate agreement been signed or ratified against the application of the environmental line. The centreline must be treated as the only valid interstate border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia at sea in the Savudrian wave in accordance with Article 15. The Convention on the Law of the Sea. Secondly, problems with the Republic of Slovenia should be resolved separately using international law. The problem of the border at sea by arbitration or by court whether it is the International Court of Justice in The Hague or the International Court of Sea Law in Hamburg under the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Problems related to the Krško arbitration or the court-based international Energy Charter, and the problem of savings in the Ljubljanska Banka in court cases, in accordance with the decision already taken on the authorisation of the Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe. Third, the Republic of Croatia will unilaterally abolish the application of Article 47. Agreement on border transport and cooperation between Croatia and Slovenia, which allows Slovenian fishing in the Croatian territorial sea. Article 71 should also be repealed. The sea fishing law allowing foreigners to fish in the Croatian territorial sea. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fourthly, the Croatian Coast Guard or the maritime police of the Republic of Croatia must be present with their vessels in the Savudrian valley, given the frequent violations of Croatian sovereignty at sea by the Slovenian police. Those who have not witnessed these incidents, those who have never seen what it looks like live or those who, after all, are not from Istria or that part of Istria, can present it to them in a very plastic way. It is as if you leave Zagreb on a Zagreb bypass and there stop you and the fine Hungarian police. It's about the same distance. So a mile and a half to two miles ahead of Umag, they are intercepted by Slovenian police and trying to charge them a fine because allegedly unpunished fishermen in the Slovenian territorial sea, which is total nonsens. The Croatian judicial authorities and the Croatian Ministry of Interior should also react sharply to any attempt to violate Croatian sovereignty on land, particularly with regard to the border line and border crossings. Only a determined and appropriate reaction from Croatian authorities gives guarantees to the European Union that Croatia is ready to implement the Schengen regime at all its borders. And the sixth, in all of the above and other procedures, the Republic of Croatia must have a sincere intention and a desire for our country and people to develop friendly and good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Slovenia and with the Slovenian people with whom we will soon share a common European home and fate. I invite you on behalf of the HSP Club to support our resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33098	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33099	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of honor, this request was presented a long time ago, and it never came here to the Parliament, and now I should, I don't know how to express myself in order to do it, but the opportunities you know have changed. But the truth has also appeared in the last few weeks a number of interesting topics that should also be said. At first, however, it should be noted that the trade between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia exceeds a billion and a half dollars. Slovenians export about $1 billion to Croatia, Croatians export about $500m to Slovenia. And it's not to be underestimated. And if we add this tourist exchange to that, then it turns out that the exchange between the two states is about two and a half billion dollars. And this will then say that 20 thousand citizens in Slovenia come and work every day to produce goods only for the Republic of Croatia, and also works in Croatia to place and produce 500 million dollars in goods for Slovenia. So that moment should be kept in mind, and he must in no way be put at risk. I believe we do not need adventure on either Croatian or Slovenian sides. Finally, these nations have always lived side by side, and will surely remain forever and ever. It is easy to sharpen, normalize relations then with an extremely high level and tragedy today that Croatia and Slovenia are now further apart than they were 10 or 15 years ago. We were most absurdly or not, on the other hand, opposed to each other when they were in Croatia and Slovenia in the power of the left centre party. ... He was coming... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Piran Bay – Savudrija wave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I learned to swim there so I know what it's called. We've been in the middle of something all the time with what's-his-name. Racan-Drnovsek's paraphras. We were arguing about the demarcation at sea. Bringing each other in and out. Now look what happened. Meanwhile, there is a change of government in Zagreb, and then also in Ljubljana and wonders, all of a sudden, the opportunity calms down. That a man in this country can't believe it. It's the same with us. And some other questions. For example, co-operation with The Hague on normalisation of relations, with Serbia, with the removal of Ustasha signs from our streets and the like. The right hand is in power, and the topics with which it successfully suppresses power. You know what he's saying. That one thing is to be in opposition, the other in power, but also that behind many incidents, for example in Piran Bay – Savudrija vala was the Croatian or Slovenian right hand or party, which may be in power today in Croatia or Slovenia. We used to listen to some messages from Kolec all the time, and ever since he performed in that video of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor suddenly ruled the idylla. And that's probably good. And that's good. But you know who was the first to sign a concession for shellfish in the Gulf of Piran. Damir Cain. Afterwards, I don't know how many diplomatic notes, but it was wanted to demonstrate that each coast was followed by a part of the sea. For this reason, even today, fishermen can also be helped in other ways by loans, buying, fish markets, building ports, stimulating them to go to... , to build apartments and so on because their bread is bitter and difficult to live on from the sea in that space for a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What has now characterized on the other hand the last few months of Croatian-Slovenian relations. First of all, it's a meeting between Mrs. Sanader and Jansa and mentioning some historic commission against which I am personally. Against the historical commission. I live by that border, I know that mentality, and I keep asking myself why this historic commission. Croatia and Slovenia have Badinter's commission and that's the point for me. Everything else is a little bit of history where they'll end up profiting from a third one. Here, look at this movie Heart in the well. First of all, it is a harsh falsification that, in the fact that these spaces, that these areas of ex Yugoslavia today, Slovenia has received on the basis of ethnic cleansing and retribution policy. It just doesn't stand, it's true an exodus happens, 220 thousand people from the former state emigrate from the territory of Croatia and Slovenia. Only from Pula that numbered 32,000 people leave her 27 grand. And it's a tragedy, for Pula, for Istria for Croatia and so on. However, the population did not move 45th, but after a peace treaty of 47th and 54th respectively. That's the point. So one more time, and on this example, I want to show that in the end, through that historic commission, maybe under quotes, they're going to profit something third. When we talk about these historic commissions, we all have our own arguments. Our greatest ally how absurd that sounded when they were shrieking. Mlini, Buzini, Shkudelini, by the way, is no one else down Yosko Joras. Why? Because until they got him into a political car, he recognized the jurisdiction of the Buy Court issued him documentation in the Bujama for building houses and so on. However, there was absolutely no dispute over these settlements in 91, however, a double-catastre was conducted. But there's still a second-rate question. In the case of St. Gera, it's a little different. At sea I agree that the paraphras was harmful to Croatia, but it does not produce effects, but I agree that it does not damage Croatia as if the contract was signed but damages but Croatia because of the fact that it defacto under quotes when a gift is realised to the other side of some 140 square km of sea, it simply must not agree. The truth 55. when we talk a little bit about history, then the SR Croatia left 25 villages in church records in the area of Buzet, which was held in the area of the wheel of Buzet, but in return, the catastrian municipality of Rupa and Pasiak from Slovenia belonged to the municipality of Opatija. And that's history. But let's play history now. Let's go work to try and remove the customs barriers first and remove the border barriers. The boundaries at least we Istrians know where they are but let's try to reorganize life with as little formalities as possible until Croatia enters the European Union. I keep pointing out, borders, borders don't have to, but I can wait. However, economic and social moments must not wait, in a word, for the existential issues of our citizens. Look at this roadwork, what's that? I agree with Tadic that the Slovenians have done this badly, they know that as with those oil corridors that Linic Croatia introduced two years ago under the pressure of Brussels is likely to give way. However, the move was extremely annoying on the road war, to which Croatia reacted with a resection, which is logical. But who's gonna get hurt? You know who's going to get hurt, they're going to get hurt. Citizens of Croatia, Slovenian pensioners, who retired there. After the entry into force of the Slovenian income law, citizens with residence in Croatia and due to the absence of a law on the avoidance of double taxation of pensions are further taxed with 16 and 33%, and today these are usually 500 to 1000 kn less for our people. 1,000 pounds less. And I believe that Croatia and Slovenia must resolve this problem because it is about 10 thousand Croatian citizens who receive pensions in this way. Finally, it is not fair for different pensions to be paid on the basis of the same work in the same country. And I call on one government and the other government to solve the problem. I am personally very pleased that there will be a meeting of the Slovenian and Croatian governments in Rijeka soon, at least so announced. My proposal would be for the Slovenian government in Rijeka to come along the road from Ilirska Bistrica to Rijeka, although it is nothing from Kozina to Rijeka, and for them to return back via Buzet, Shocerga, Grasic, Kubed and Black Kal. They would be very happy to host the Buzet, only to see the state of the Slovenian roads leading towards Croatia. In a catastrophic, shameful way, they defacto really isolate us from the European Union. If it doesn't go differently, you would even suggest one Croatian gift in the amount of, say, one 50 million kuna, that would be enough for those roads to be improved because in a year, it would immediately return to us through tourism, through I don't know similar content. So I'm going to say one more time, let's first solve existential issues and then define the borders, although Croatia and Slovenia will probably never succeed without a third. I know that the arrival of the arbiter will be interpreted by everyone if the inability of the two governments, and if we want to avoid freezing the definition of the border line at sea, on land for 5 years, and if Croatia gets lucky to join the European Union, this will also be a second-rate issue for Croatia and Slovenia tomorrow. Now we see Rupel on the Italian initiative in the ecological belt but Italy probably intends to declare that belt towards France not on the Adriatic, mentions his own as the Slovenian ecological belt says. And the tension rises again in that part of Istria. I say let him declare it. Because what they would declare in the end could only be hung by cats on their tails. But this is how you feel when you simply deal with these areas of the elite in Zagreb or Ljubljana and when they think that their world surveillance is the one that is dominantly shared by the local population. But the truth is, I dare say a little differently. And the locals would prefer to live in peace if they could work and live from their work. I also know that Slovenian companies operating in Croatia are very stable. Their arrival I think should also be a goal in some way, especially when it comes to manufacturing companies. For example. Slovensko Croatia's Cimos from Buzet only exported 42m euros in goods in 2004. That's about $55 million. And in a mixed one, he said Croatian-Slovenian ownership. The dominant Slovenian. And that should be a simple example. Shouldn't that Cimos have, however, been denied in 2002 to take over Prvomajska from Rusha after opening up 350 jobs in the TPS and after losing that opportunity they went to Kikinda, Vojvodina and took over the factory with 3,000 employees there. I think that is simply not done, because I am aware of the fact either the capital will come to Croatia or our citizens will follow that capital into the world. And that's the point. And the Slovenian capital certainly is welcome here. A clear story about the Ljubljanska banka is the story by my court of all Croatian-Slovenian stories. Someone would say the mother of all battles. Through the bank, the Slovenian state literally stole 115 thousand Croatian savings from 91st year 330 million marks plus interest. Now we're talking about a succession. Both Belgrade and Sarajevo agree to it. Zagreb is still as far as I can tell. For saving from the other side anyway. The important thing is that they can get their money. What Slovenia did. She left claims at the old bank and, by constitutional law, passed on the old bank's assets to the new bank, which is nothing but a common thief. But on the other hand, we have the pressure of the 115 thousand Croatian citizens asking for money. Even if it's a succession as unfavourable as it is for the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, if Croatian companies on the other hand are in debt to the Ljubljana bank, and this should be settled because no one should allow that "cauicide" either. Finally, Croatia solved 600 million marks in 91st so-called The transfer of the savings of the Ljubljana Bank, and it is undeniable that it was the obligation of the Ljubljanska Banka. To conclude, the right parties are in power today, until a month ago there was peace until double taxation of pensions i.e. truck war, let the governments handle it. Let Slovenia support Croatia on its way to Europe. Croatia needs Slovenia, Slovenia needs Croatia, we are neighbours. One day there will certainly be no border regime here. We are close and indeed all the problems without harm for Croatia and Slovenia can be resolved if there is political will in 7 days. The only question is whether political vanity would be affected by those who have been dealing with these disputes for 15 years, and they all actually do not solve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33100	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33101	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The motion for a resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia can serve as an incentive to discuss bilateral relations between the two countries and thus the HDZ Club is experiencing the proposal. However, we do not consider a resolution with such content and form a good way to resolve bilateral issues, nor do we feel that the Croatian Parliament has adopted it as its official document. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, I will refer to the current state of Croatian-Slovenian relations and their perspective. Three are the main foreign policy priorities of the Republic of Croatia. Membership in the European Union, NATO membership and the development of better and more content bilateral relations with neighbouring countries. The Republic of Slovenia is an extremely important neighbouring country for the Republic of Croatia. It should be stressed that bilateral relations between the two countries are good and content, both encouraged but also because of the collapse of the former common state there are several open issues. Interstate relations were particularly developed in the area of the economy as well as in counterpart Cain. In 2004, the Republic of Slovenia became a full member of the European Union and NATO, which Croatia welcomes and sees as an additional contribution to the expansion of the area of stability and security in this part of Europe. Croatia also appreciates Slovenia's support and expects Slovenia to express it in further approximation of the Republic of Croatia to Euro-Atlantic integration. Croatia and Slovenia are two countries that share a similar past, but also a common future based on the same system of values. The remaining open issues inherited from the former common state must be addressed in the European spirit and on good neighbourly principles based on international law and common commitment to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. After the parliamentary elections in Slovenia, we can say that a different and more favourable atmosphere has been created for the possible convergence of views and more content talks on currently open issues. The first working meeting of the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and the new Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janša, in Mokrica, was also evidenced on January 21st 2005. The meeting was held in an extremely positive atmosphere and constructive dialogue, and such an atmosphere is a good assumption to strengthen further cooperation and address all outstanding issues. It has been concluded that there is a mutual will to resolve the remaining issues and it is estimated that these issues cannot overshadow the good relations of the two countries we had before, which we will have in the future in common Europe. It is agreed to access the conclusion of an agreement on the avoidance of incidents at sea and on the crossing of the border. The establishment of a Croatian-Slovenian historical commission with the task of considering relations between the two countries and peoples throughout history has also been agreed and will contribute to further development of a positive climate in which these relations could develop as well as possible. One of the agreed co-operation measures that will improve the framework for resolving open issues is the agreement to hold a joint session of the two governments by summer 2005 in the Republic of Croatia. Following the prime minister's agreement, political consultations should also continue at a lower level, at the level of state secretaries for political issues of the foreign ministers of the two countries and develop a kind of road map to implement the government's talks. Such developments give each other an additional positive dimension and create assumptions for opening a new page on mutual relations. It is also sent to citizens and also to the European Union that the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia are mature democratic states which can solve their problems in a constructive dialogue based on good neighbourly principles. The atmosphere thus created will also be a framework for a realistic attempt to address remaining open issues. We therefore believe that it is necessary to use such an atmosphere and, given the political context and to leave it to governments and diplomats to resolve open issues in peace through bilateral talks, that is, agreements. In the event that any of the issues cannot be resolved through agreement, the two countries can jointly address an international judicial institution and accept its rightful word. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia of the Croatian Party of Law Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33102	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33103	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Looking at the empty right side that there are no representatives of the government for us in HSP seems to be a greater interest in the Slovenian public, the Slovenian media for this debate in the Croatian Parliament than the Croatian Government. And that's why we're not surprised by the position of the HDZ Club. But I'll just mention the most important things to you. When we tabled the motion for our resolution, the following problems were current in relation to Slovenia, the demarcation at sea, the issue of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, the issue of St. Gera, the issue of the Nuclearar Krško. And what happened in the meantime? None of these issues have been resolved, regardless of what Prime Minister Sanader found with Prime Minister Drnovsek and what the atmosphere says was so wonderful and wonderful, but other problems have occurred. You know for a fact that there is now a "retired war", you know for a fact that an even bigger problem is the question of pensioners, meaning our pensioners who made pensions in Slovenia because of the fact that we do not have a Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation. You know there's also a problem with health insurance. You yourself know that there is a problem with our citizens, our citizens, as well as citizens of Slovenia living in border areas related to their property, means agricultural or other, because they have to go around 10, 15 kilometers to get their property. So the problem is more and more day by day, and I wouldn't agree with it if it was some big idiot. We certainly must, that we must behave well next door, but we will behave well next door when we start solving these problems. Therefore, you know for yourself that for the government and for the political elite in Croatia was the historic date when we got a high, and the historical date was when we got candidate status, so now tells the historical date that it was March 17th. And you see, it's for the government, but for fishermen, it's going to be a historic date when the separation at sea is resolved. For the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka will be when their problem is solved. For St. Gera and for that part of us there will be when that problem is solved. So when the nuclear problem of Krško is solved. For the retired when this problem is solved. So let's focus on doing what needs to be done. And that's why it's our proposal. So he has a goal next, commit and encourage the government to start doing that part of the business, not to be the main issue of hunting for Gotovina. So let's focus on that. And now the problem is I say every day more and more. Nothing is solved which could mean that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow a new problem will arise, because the worst thing is to put things under the rug. Here's a case of Soca-St. Gera Road. You know for a fact that the HSP club was submitted to the amendment, that 15 million kuna was secured there. Those rough works have been done, and there's more to be paved up, and the man who does that isn't getting paid for anything. He didn't even get any. So the kuna didn't even win, and now there's going to be a situation where Reverend Mile Vranesic is ready to strike smoother and come here. It's a problem for people who live there, so let's think about it. People know that the road is built, now they expect the road to be paved. Border crossings they expect will simply come to their property that they will not have to go 15km around, and if they cross the river that they will not be punished by Croatian police and Croatian criminal courts or Slovenians for being punished by their police. That's what citizens want to know if these problems can be solved. But I expected on behalf of the club, or club HSP, that you would now make some concrete suggestions from the HDZ Club. To have the Parliament commit the government to do something. We know that the problems from day to day are growing. The problem is that the former prime minister signed that part of the parade, but forget it, solve these problems. Solve the problem of St. Gera, solve the problem of Krško nuclear power, solve the problem of the savings of the Ljubljanska banka, solve the problem of the separation at sea, solve the problem of the pensioner, solve the problems, see how easy you are, the authorities agreed to postpone the ecological and fishing zone when Slovenia and everyone else asked for it. And now back to us boomerang, Slovenia even announces that it will declare an ecological zone. We know she's changed her Naval Law. Italy announces that. So what now? Now what? So now they're going to ask for something new and we're just going to answer again that we're going to agree to that request. It is therefore high time for the government to start doing its part of the commitment. We have international public law, we have the possibility of arbitration, there's a whole bunch of possibilities to solve, and the worst situation is that nothing is solved, and we see for ourselves that nothing is solved. However, new problems arise. It's easy to watch, but tell the pensioner whom Slovenia is taxing. He misses that thousand and a half kuna. Tell the fisherman when he sees that the Slovenian boat or Italian is hunting uninterrupted fish, and he has problems with his country because we are concerned with the ecological zone, so part of the plot was made and he can't hunt in areas where he used to hunt. He can't hunt because he has to have approval. Therefore, all that we have brought was this way to the detriment of Croatian citizens and it is high time to start solving that the government is also doing its constitutional obligations, that the problems with Slovenia are not accumulated because normally that we are for good neighbourly relations, we are neighbours but if we cannot resolve them in agreement under international public law, we resolve them by arbitration. It's the worst thing to do. How many people save Ljubljanska Banka in the meantime some have died, the problem has not been solved. So it is time for us here to agree to bring this resolution together with the amendments, and so we give both the obligation and the government's incentive to do what needs to be done, and on 17 March let the Croatian fishermen more interested in this part, Croatian pensioners more interested in this part than if we are going to start negotiating. This is more important for the Croatian people than 17.3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33104	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club HSLS, DC and LS, Ms. MP and Vice-President Djurdja Adledzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I will, unlike some of my colleagues, praise the proposal of the agenda point, the proposal of colleagues and colleagues from HSP but not the text in general because there is one part that should be discussed and actually ask the question of how realistic it is to perform this point 3, how much can be done without incidents and whether it would be the same of another one-sided action. I see HSP colleagues are positively noding their heads, so that's a point that's controversial. But if you and I both know that this point is controversial, then there is really a question of the integrity of this text, but I'm going to wait for your answer. The rest is acceptable to us, but that part I really think would be our unilateral action, and we have objected with the full right of the Republic of Slovenia. However, what you certainly did well, undeniably well, that you opened a discussion about relations with Slovenia. It's a subject that's been crossed in the House from those traumatic times when it was debated about Krško, when it was debated about Savudrija Vala, when the government fell because of these points, and I must admit, let it be a credit to us that the HSLS has just disputed the raise of hands for that point of the agenda, and otherwise the question is how would that part be solved now. Of course I'm talking about last term. It is good, then, that you have opened a discussion about relations with Slovenia because the problems have settled from the Ljubljanska banka where few will use any other term than the robbery, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, St. Gera which is a unique example I mean not only on this territory to the Savadria Vale and now this last event that many call seems to me with a real truck war. So when we look at who then led diplomatic activities about events in Savudrija Vala until these events with carriers, you will see that actually the main diplomatic activities in the first part were led by fishermen, and now they started to run the carriers. So it's obvious that's where the institutions failed. They were directly hit and that's why they were faster, and we politicians used to show up when there was a good time for harvesting for us. Of course not all of them, some of them were even more correct. So when we look at the topics from the Bank of Ljubljana, Krško, Savudria Vale to the problems with the carriers who live from it, remember that people lose their heads in Iraq and then we do not allow them to at least drive normally in Slovenia, we will see that these are difficult economic issues that open up the issue of our pragmaticism and open the question to where and we can remain silent. Here are very common topics and talks from the field of foreign policy. I often have an impression, and the public seems to me that, in fact, in the shadow of foreign policy, other topics such as economic and social issues have fallen, as well as this bilateral part of relations with Slovenia, but also relations with our other neighbours if you look at the borders. You will hear what the Vukovars will tell you about the werewolf hell, you will hear what the Dubrovnikers will say where their flag is, or where it is not, and then you will see that, in fact, other than the EU where we have a consensus, all other issues are in the shadows. We believe that it is possible to reach a consensus politically regardless of our differences because there are indeed real national interests. If we agree that these are actually areas that need to be dealt with in one way, which is diplomatic without incidents, otherwise we are the same or the same with neighbours, then we should work in accordance with international law. After all, there is also a Helsinki declaration that binds Slovenia. So, on behalf of the Club, we propose urgent action and stronger diplomatic activity. Elections have passed in both countries, except Croatia should not be running its usual foreign policy this time. So, protect both fishermen and save, this time and transporters. Because if we're talking about the harmfulness of Racan's paraphras, then our silence is just as bad. So thank you colleagues for starting the debate, for opening it up, but here, this 3rd point, I must admit, it's a bit controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33106	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33107	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I, of course, have nothing against the initiative of the Croatian Party's representatives to talk about issues that are without a doubt burdened and are well present in the general public in Croatia and tang to the citizens of this country in one way or another. Some to a lesser extent, mainly given the fact that hundreds and thousands of savings from the Ljubljanska Banka are damaged, that their status is not resolved. The problems of Croatian fishermen in the Savudria vala area. The problems of Croatian pensioners, therefore, are the problems concerning the citizens of this country and it is legitimate to discuss, of course, in the Croatian Parliament on the problems of these people and ways of solving the problems of these citizens. However, I am not sure that such a resolution would contribute to solving these open problems that we have with us the neighbouring and friendly state of Slovenia, while it is not now and irrelevant to the member of the European Union. Allow me to pay particular attention to an allegation from the very reasons where one of the attempts we have made as a country and which cannot be nominated solely here to former Prime Minister Ivica Racan, that one attempt to solve all these problems in the package is made at times and times when Slovenia was not yet a member of the European Union. So, when it was created and favourable circumstances that such an attempt that unfortunately failed was not done as it is said here, as an unacceptablely irresponsible act, and there was an opportunity to hear in public that it was an act of high treason and I don't know what was not mentioned here. So, convinced that in fact point 6 of this Resolution is the only real and true political framework for the true guidance for the work and functioning of the Croatian government that needs to be done, which says that in all our actions, therefore, according to the Republic of Slovenia, the sincere intention and aspirations of our country and people for the development of friendly and good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian people must be contained. With which we will soon share a common European home and fate. This is exactly the point in the Resolution that seems to me, but in a good way, is challenging the need to put these problems back on in a specific way, as it says here. If they were to be taxed, I don't see the real political purpose of one of these, one of these resolutions. So, I believe that we have the right as the Croatian Parliament to demand from the Croatian Government, that we have the right to require a more effective, more efficient and responsible way of resolving the relationship of open issues with the Republic of Slovenia, but this must happen exclusively and primarily in the spirit of this point 6 which we have here in this Resolution. And Croatia should in no way be the party to these open issues which, in any way, would in any way further question the peacefulness and determination to resolve these issues in a peaceful way and a constructive way. So, the debate on these issues in the Croatian Parliament is yes. The request for the Croatian government to work effectively on these issues, but not any other, any resolutions that would smell, although I do not say that this here is said to be done, that would smell of any type of ultimatum or political pressure that is not in favour of resolving good neighbourly relations with friendly Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33108	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33109	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vidovic said he does not see the purpose of this resolution. The purpose of this Resolution is precisely written, to save the Ljubljanska banks know when they will receive their savings, that... They know exactly when the question of double taxation will be resolved, that our carriers also know when the question of the truck war will be resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all this other stuff that's been said, that's the point and that's the point clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33110	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Agent Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33111	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. My wish is to respond to several allegations that were heard during the debate. In the first instance, it is necessary to remind the justification of our Article 3 in this Resolution. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia will unilaterally abolish the application of Article 47. Agreement on border transport and cooperation allowing Slovenian fishing in the territorial sea, as this right provides the Republic of Croatia with Article 60. SOPS. Therefore, the border transport and cooperation agreement. Article 60(3) reads: "any Contracting Party may, with the exception of Article 57."and here what we're looking for is not an article 57 but 47. Therefore, "each of the Contracting Parties may suspend, temporarily, in part or in full the application of this Agreement on suspension of the application of the Agreement and the suspension of the suspension of the suspension without delay, without delay, by diplomatic means, to notify the other Contracting Party." So each of the Contracting Parties may give up the whole of the Agreement, which is I believe we will either do part of the Agreement. We here give up one single article of the Agreement and we want to give up that article of the Agreement that is contrary to the Convention on the Law of the Sea and that is all. For those who may not know what international agreements concerning border traffic and cooperation are like here, I have a so-called Udin Agreement between Italy and the former Yugoslavia that regulates border traffic and co-operation. And here you have defined what a border zone is, who can cross the border, what can be transmitted, what they are and how legal persons work, how they cross relatives, what a border pass, how shepherds and foresters pass, how seasonal pasture is carried out, but beware, there is no fishing anywhere. There's no fishing anywhere. Border agreements never mention fishing because fishing in other people's territorial waters is a violation of the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Point. That is why this Agreement is completely pointless. If you ask our fishermen they have no interest, absolutely no interest in fishing in the territorial sea of Slovenia. Slovenia has no interest in really supporting this situation now unless there are entirely other goals behind it. So with 39 professional fishermen, of which 13 active Slovenia really has no reason to insist on this article, because from the situation that has happened and there is absolutely right that until now more successful negotiations were conducted by fishermen and self-carriers than representatives of the Government, but we want the problems to finally start to be solved and therefore I disagree with those who say that such a document will not be well accepted or that it does not contribute to the development of relations. We accept any amendment that will give here, which will be here the day, we believe that the problems do not happen in oblivion, we believe that problems cannot be solved so that they are forgotten for a few years, so they are expected to be solved in themselves and therefore this resolution is essentially an incentive for the Government to start solving problems but not for historical commissions, not for new discussions where we will hear various solutions but for international legal means. Sticking to the Convention of International Law and expecting a court dispute to be brought about in certain situations. So, we do not want to violate relations with Slovenia and we find it really strange why it is always said that we are against Slovenia and that we want to violate relations with them if we seek respect for international rights and if we firmly defend what is unequivocally ours. I'm going to give you this particular example of a nuclear power plant in Krško. The nuclear power plant was built by common means under an agreement that predicted us to use 50% of the electricity because we had invested 50% but which was also predicted by the international Convention on Nuclear Security that they were concerned with the disposal of waste on their territory as we should have taken care of the disposal of the waste of the nuclear plant that had never been built because the Slovenians had played the agreement at the end when it came to the withdrawal of ownership of the nuclear power plant, we instead of going to New York on the basis of the International Energy Charter for several years infertilely negotiated an agreement that was undoubtedly harmful for Croatia. And that was to the extent that it was a shame that we didn't even know what expenses we were taking, but we took over their half, so someone stole your car, for four years, and after four years, it came to him to sign that the car was in the same condition that he was in after he took it away from you and more to pay him for the gas and the tires he was changing in the meantime. That's what we did with Nuklearka Krško. If we had followed the International Energy Charter if we had gone to court on this matter it would have been quite clear, it was a joint investment, one of the partners damaged the other and in that case only comes to one single solution and that is the payment of compensation for that damage. So this is a typical example when Croatia has been working for its own good by deviating from international law for no reason. As for Mr Daniele Kolec, he is my personal friend, as well as Danilo Latin as well as Prima Osic and other fishermen in Savudrija, and I have no reason to hide it, I am proud that HSP representatives first visited Savudrija in 2001 after the incidents with the Slovenian police started, because you will forgive how to fish in their territorial waters if you are persecuted in their territorial waters by foreign police. I can't really feel that it's good, or that it's really good neighbourly relations, and that's why, in October of then, HSP's representative, Dr. Boris Kandare and I visited these fishermen, scouted in the field, which is what it really is, and gave them full support. I'm glad that Mr. Cain approved Mr. Kolec as president of the Istrian County Assembly to launch the mussels in the Savudrija vala, I recommend it to Mr. Kolec, I believe he is watching us offer these mussels to Mr. Sanader and Mr. Janša at the next meeting in the spirit of good neighbourhood. However, the fact is that whenever Kolec's ship approaches the farm of mussels on the other side as a mirror painting approaches the Slovenian patrol boat, it would by no chance be one of his men who knows what reasons he crossed the middle line but that does not prevent that same Slovenian patrol boat from coming to our side whenever he likes. In all these incidents, all these disputes are affected by Croatian citizens. Whether employees in Slovenia suffer, whether they lose their pensions or suffer savings that have been robbed by the Bank of Ljubljana and the Slovenian State, because it is the same as if in 916 you put your money in a credit bank an stalt in Vienna and then after the collapse of Austria you can no longer get your money, it is actually that Slovenia offers us as an argument, the same fishermen who want to arrest the Slovenian police, and when they do not charge them on their way to Trieste in the hope that they will be charged with the suspicions because they allegedly fished in the Slovenian waters and people were constantly in the Croatian Sea. As far as St. Gere is concerned, I do not know that which European border, the European Union's borders, there is an occupation army on foreign territory, such as the Slovenian Army is an occupation on our territory and I find it truly amazing that in these circumstances, Croatia must prove its European spirit and commitment to European values and it is amazing for me that in these circumstances no one on the Croatian side except HSP has the guts to tell Slovenians that they are violating all possible European documents. By keeping part of Croatian territory under occupation at the European Union border and within our territory 100 meters. So, for these reasons, we need this resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33112	Thank you very much. We're having an individual discussion. Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I, like all my predecessors, really consider the debate today on this agenda point as an incentive to discuss relations with our neighbouring Slovenian friends. In fact, a lot has been said here, but some facts have not been made, in the meantime, by the arrival of new governments and in Croatia last year, in late 2003, especially after the Slovenian elections and after the arrival of the new Government and the new Prime Minister Mr Janša to Slovenia. So what we need to say is exactly what was actually happening in the meantime and what was our state of relations and relations between our two countries. I agree with all who have said in the debate so far that our relations should really be based on friendly good neighbourly relations that have always been clear throughout history, so there has never been a question of friendship between the Croatian and Slovenian people, and in this sense I am sure that in this atmosphere our relations will continue to be developed. It should be pointed out that there has been a change in circumstances in terms of creating a more positive atmosphere in our relationship. What's that supposed to read from? So to read first of all from the meetings that our Prime Minister Mr. Sanader had with the President of the Slovenian Government with Mr. Jansa. Where it is clearly agreed on on which foundations open issues will be addressed between our countries. These open issues are not good to resolve by unilateral move, the last case of unilateral withdrawal we had in the case of a truck war, where on the Slovenian side indeed is a unilaterally drawn move that encountered the same such reaction on our part justified by the ministry. And we simply see the result through the European Commission's suggestion that such issues must indeed be resolved at a common table in agreement between the two countries. So I personally think we don't need such messages because we know it well. So we really need to sit at the table and resolve all the open questions that are mentioned here, but in the spirit of truly friendly neighborly relations. Also, the fact that a meeting held between the two prime ministers estimated that these open issues cannot be overshadowed and our good neighbourly relations should not be overshadowed, speaks for themselves enough, speaks for itself enough in a direction in which further relations between our countries will develop. It is also agreed to approach the conclusion of an agreement on the avoidance of incidents at sea and on border crossings. So that's agreed, that's the facts that are agreed. So, in the meantime, they're agreed. And I think the most important thing is that what the Croatian government is doing is also showing support in their efforts and Croatian diplomacy to solve these issues really in such a spirit. I would like to take a special look at something that is going through the steps of all who are discussing this topic, which is the issue of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka. I must say that I also discussed this issue in the Council of Europe as Head of the Croatian delegation. As are some other representatives through the work of various committees of the Council of Europe. And it seems most important to me at this point to point out that in April of last year, the European Court of Human Rights, whose founder is the Council of Europe, made a decision in which he was in charge of cases specifically saving the Ljubljanska Banka that sued that bank before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. That decision on the jurisdiction of the court is actually one turning point in this case. And the Council of Europe's view that this is the primary issue of court and court decisions can ultimately mean a great deal to all those who address this court. And I am sure that the first judgments of this court will indeed go in favour of the savings, because it is only logical and possible according to all those events that have been and according to all the arguments that these people have before that court. But, of course, you have to wait for the decision of the court itself. But the important thing is that the court has declared itself competent on this matter. And I believe we're about to get a court ruling. So, since April last year, I believe we can expect in a closer period ahead of us and such a judicial decision. As far as fundamental views are concerned, it is clear that the Croatian government will not depart at least from this Croatian government, and I am sure all other Croatian governments, regardless of who it is, from the fundamental principle that we will not give our territory to anyone. That is quite clear and unequivocal, so we certainly will not give or give our part of the territory to anyone. Of course we're going to solve these open issues together. If we can't solve these issues at a joint table, then we'll solve them through international institutions, and above all, I mean courts that can be competent or in arbitration. Arbitration can also solve the remaining open issues that I say should not and should not and cannot actually overshadow our good neighbourly relations. Here in that spirit I think we should... encourage both the government and our diplomacy to continue on these good neighbourly relations, to resolve all open issues, in the way they've shown it so far. So, with such an approach that will provide a positive atmosphere and, above all, as quickly as possible, solving these problems that are affecting our citizens, our citizens who are daily faced really with the problems that are significant to them, which are important to their incomes, which are significant to the economy, above all to the border regions, in fact to provide them with one normal life and normal circumstances so as not to have so-called. mini wars on every single issue that burdens our neighbors, our relationships. Here in this sense, it is truly commendable as an incentive to discuss these issues. But I personally think that we should leave the resolution to those who have already directly established quality relations, quality contacts, here above all I think of the Croatian government, Prime Minister Sanader and Prime Minister Janša and Croatian diplomacy. Here's my contribution to this debate. I think it was important to highlight this about the Ljubljanska banka, so the citizens know what it is and that the savings would know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33114	Thank you. We have a correction and one replica. Mr. Shime Luchin called for a replica, please. But it's you to fix it. Well, then, Mr. Kovacevic's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I have to say that I agree with Mr. Frana Matusic's point of view, and he said that this is the position of the government, that we will not give our territory to anyone. So I ask him, does he know what this means about the question of St. Gera? Is the Slovenian army there. What does that mean? Secondly, there are new facts for counterpart Matusic and that our prime minister met with Prime Minister Drnovsek, or Jansa, and that he will meet again. For us, there are new facts and, in the meantime, there has been a truck war and there has been a tax on Croatian pensioners, which has been resolved since 99. So let's go from word to deed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33116	... Mr. Matušić, please. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33117	Mr Kovacevic is quite clear that St. Gera is among the open issues. Open questions we'll solve together. So that's not questionable at all. What you said isn't questionable at all. As far as other things are concerned, the Truck War has now begun, it has been specifically created, but the measure on our part was equally measured on the Slovenian side. Where are we? We have come to the conclusion that someone on the side specifically by the European Commission is sending us a signal that we must work this out together. That's what we know, what we're aware of, and that's why we don't want to make unilateral moves. We don't want to make any unilateral moves. Let's agree on open issues, we know what open questions are. Let's sit at the table. If we can't agree in that case we also have arbitration, we also have international courts in charge of these issues, then we'll deal with it that way. Here, it's a very clear and simple thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33118	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Shime Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33119	Well, on this trail, I wanted to correct the incorrect assumption or to find that by changing the government in Croatia or Slovenia, that raising the quality of these relationships is just because you have better, nicer, nicer conversations and some principled attitudes don't mean anything. Because I'm saying that today's worse relationships than they were just on this. And this summer we've had incidents just like before, last summer as well as previous years, and we've got two more problems, this is double taxation and the truck war that's been mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33120	Okay, that's an opinion. It's a polemic now, etc. Let's move on. At 10 o'clock and 53 minutes, it's past 10 minutes. It's Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33121	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! There is a great interest in the citizens of Croatia and especially citizens living in border areas with the Republic of Slovenia to maintain good neighbourly relations with the country but also to deal with open issues in agreement. Today, Slovenia is a member of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia seems to be on track to become a member of the European Union soon, and to this extent, in fact, all open issues between these two countries should be addressed. So far, we have faced many problems between these countries since our independence and Croatia and Slovenia. The most exposed and the greatest publicity actually received the issue of borders, the ecological and fishing zone lately and at the beginning of the debt of the Ljubljana Bank towards our citizens and the dispute over the ownership of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. And those problems concerning individuals, small groups of people often remained out of it publicity and even out of the interest of politics. I'll say a few cases like that. The problem of fired workers who were significantly present in Međimurje County. They ran out of work, without adequate compensation, and the two countries agreed that each would solve the problem of unemployed workers at their employment offices. In the 1990s, several thousand people who were jobless in Slovenia were unable to solve the minimally existential problems in Croatia from health care, from employment and so on. They could not participate in privatisation in Slovenia because there were no such agreements. In particular, I think it is the responsibility of the Croatian government and Croatian diplomacy to address precisely such problems. Of course, people are also interested in economic cooperation and exchange, especially I say citizens in the border areas of the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia. I came forward today for this debate to publicly present the famous problem of Slovenian pensioners living in Croatia, and with the application of the new Income Tax Act from 1 January of this year in the Slovenian state, they must pay very high tax rates. Therefore, foreign citizens who do not live in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia pay, for example, for pensions up to 108 thousand Slovenian tolars at a rate of 16% to 212 thousand Slovenian tolars, 33% and this is mainly the level of pensions received by Croatian pensioners who have acquired those pensions in Slovenia. It is their appeal that the Croatian state, the Croatian government and diplomacy will soon resolve the agreement, or agree, to avoid double taxation, to establish that they pay taxes in Croatia because it is more favourable for them. They live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and rightly seek to pay taxes to the Republic of Croatia. It is known that up to 3,000 kuna pensions in Croatia are not taxed and that would help our citizens. Such agreements the Republic of Slovenia has with some countries and I really expect that it would not be a problem for our government to agree on such an agreement. We have some information unverified that such an agreement is written, that it stands long in the drawers of one and the other government, and that is what I expect and demand on behalf of these citizens that this process be realised in the negotiations on agreement and ratification both in the Slovenian and Croatian parliament as soon as possible. In the end, I will say what my colleague Vidovic said on behalf of our club. I appreciate that it is not necessary for the Parliament to adopt such a resolution. We must require our government to strengthen diplomatic activities in resolving open issues with all our neighbours and so on with the Republic of Slovenia. I personally support the government to address these issues, but I expect it to take priority to address the life problems of our citizens that arise in disputes between these two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33122	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a motion for a resolution, and I stress the opening resolution on the principles of the interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to say this in introductory terms, or to quote it in a sense and Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that one of the basic jobs, obligations and responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is that it is indeed a matter of taking the lead in foreign policy and, in relation to its overall responsibility, which comes down to responsibility for its work, of course, towards the Croatian Parliament. In its work so far, the Croatian government has been very good at resolving all those burning foreign policy issues, especially through the work of resolution ministries. So I am also talking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of European Integration, which, by the decision of this House, has recently been joined into a single unit. I would like to point out firstly that the Government is not only aware of the responsibility prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of all the problems facing the Republic of Croatia, mainly with issues of international relations, relations with neighbours and so with the Republic of Slovenia. And not just that. It has a clear and unequivocal view in accordance with international law regarding the resolution of all disputes that are numbered, and indeed they are there as problems that should be resolved in the light of the motions of the resolution in question, regardless of the border disputes, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the debt of the Ljubljanska banka, the illegal construction or the civil-legal problems that we face in the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. In light of what has been said, it should not be doubted that during the next period of time, internationally highly sensitive to the Republic of Croatia, it will successfully deal with the above problems. We have before us a motion for a resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations. So it should also be said that Resolution is one of the acts of the Croatian Parliament, which is based on Article 121. The Rules of Procedure shall indicate on the one hand the situation and the problems in a given area and, on the other hand, the measures to be implemented in that area. I will not enter into the contents of the concrete measures proposed in the very explanation or proposal of the resolution in question, but also some in previous discussions of colleagues have pointed out that some of them certainly point to one-sidedness or one-sided approach to solving certain problems which, in the light of neighbourly relations, certainly not in this sensitive, sensitive moment or time period would not be the most favourable for the Republic of Croatia. At the very least, it is doubtful and controversial, therefore, whether, at this point in time, the international relations of the Republic of Croatia should approach the adoption of the resolution in question, although they are all and no one is running away from all of these problems that I have counted and which are clearly present at the time of the relationship, the resolution of everyday and even life, existential issues, people, ordinary people and in border areas of the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. And all these opinions are, therefore, my view, and my view is that this Resolution Croatian Parliament should not be brought, also aware of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, in the next period of time, be confronted with the resolution of these problems or the resolution of these problems but, of course, with respect to the principles of mutual respect, equal subjectivity of the countries of the European Union, international legal standards and with the application of international law and international legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33124	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33125	Dear Vice President, a colleague says the Croatian government is doing very well, that he is pleased. However, if this is good work, so far we have had problems with Slovenia as regards borders, Piran Bay, St. Gera, and now we have another new one, which is taxing the pensions of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33126	Your Honor, MP Tomljanovic said that he thinks the government is doing well, and he thinks so, you can't do anything to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33127	Well, yeah, but I'm just saying the fact that we have in the last 10 days [[Intruder: It's not a correction of an incorrect quote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33128	It's an opinion, you can't do it, I'm sure you can't change his mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33129	... The last 10 days, two more new problems with Slovenia, that's an incorrect allegation. [[Specially enabled.]] So this government didn't do a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33130	That's your opinion. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33131	And you'll probably tell me that I can't correct the wrong quote when Mr. Tomljenovic says that the government is very good at solving all the burning issues in neighbourly relations. So if that's a quality way of solving it, then you'd ask yourself what if this government were doing less quality work. They'd probably be at war with anything they can and can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33132	You said it yourself, so I wouldn't repeat what I said to the esteemed representative of Kurt. Don't, don't use an institution to correct an incorrect statement of opinion or controversy. We still have the replica. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33133	Dear Mr. Vice President, I agree with the part of Mr. Tomljenovic's statement that the Croatian government has made some moves in the area of foreign policy. The most visible is the shift in co-operation with The Hague court, whoever they were looking for, we delivered, and as far as these open issues with Slovenia are concerned, nothing has been done. So, the problems are just piling up, the old problems aren't solved, the new problems are coming to us, so at least I expected you to suggest a conclusion that you humbly pray to the government to at least start solving something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33134	The answer to the line of Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33135	My colleague Kovacevic, first of all, I am not Tomljenović, but Tomljanović, you have had a year and three months to learn it, at least I do not find it controversial. As for the government's work, I said that the government, here I have it and written it in an extremely high-quality way, solves all the burning issues of foreign policy, that's my opinion, my position, my assessment, and especially when it comes to resort ministries. So when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of European Integration. So, neither can that be an incorrect quote, so if someone has reason to replicate, let them replicate but in one reasoned way, therefore, in one way that we don't impose some kind of flat-rate here, but I'm willing to accept such a debate that in the past year we don't... Governments are based on the functioning of, say, the foreign ministry and the European Integration Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're polymizing in one inappropriate way, especially not in light of the proposed resolution. If you have understood the essence or essence of my debate, I have largely opposed the very essence of the act, i.e. the resolution as an act of the Parliament which regulates the obvious problems that we have in international relations and relations with the Republic of Slovenia. So once again, I ask you publicly whether you, as a colleague as a lawyer, think that at this point in time of international relations of the Republic of Croatia really need to bring a resolution that would require me to the government exactly the measures that these concrete interstate agreements will make, I am not for it, it is not my opinion and I remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33136	Thank you. Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I must admit that I am looking forward to this change of rhetoric from the HDZ benches because when the second government was in power, then I must admit you were much sharper, much rougher and we're not rough colleagues, we're just going with arguments. As an example, I still need to say something that is happening in the area of Varazdin County. Something has already been said in the debate about the pensions of Croatian citizens with high taxes. We know about the truck war, here in Varazdin yesterday was a session of the County Assembly and just the council members of your party suggest that customs and police on the Slovenian side punish our citizens and the question raised by the council of your party, whether the citizens of the Varazdin County but Croatian citizens to their properties, should reach their homes by helicopters and whether the Government may have the means for these helicopters in its programme. In addition, in the area of the Varazdin County and you are saying that the Government is very good at solving the problems of our citizens, there is still no border crossing in the area of the town of Lepoglava so that our citizens can go to the Republic of Slovenia in an appropriate quality way and not about 50 km. You have to admit, the government may be doing something but quality is far from working that way. He's doing bad, he's doing bad. You said that and your predecessors said that the work was good because the government changed in Slovenia as well. But I'm afraid that good work has no good effects and no good solutions for citizens who live. It may be good and good in their relations, but it must be felt by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33138	Thank you. The answer to the line of Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33139	Dear colleague, I'm really sorry to have to say it again. And you haven't understood the point of my debate at all. I don't know if you listened to me very carefully. So no one's running away from the problem. On one side or on the other. No one closes their eyes to problems, which are clearly there. I also said in problems among ordinary, small people with everyday jobs of normal functioning. Especially in, say, border areas and so on. That's not the point. The key question here is whether this tall House of Croatian Parliament should respond to these or such problems with the relationship of this moment with the resolution. That's what I've said. It's exactly what the problems are about this government and every future government if they don't solve these problems will be in the interest and in the jurisdiction to solve these problems because they are clearly there. The key to my or the essence of my debate was here and in the sense that this Croatian House today should approach the adoption of a resolution and, in your opinion, you think that by resolution any of these problems will be resolved by this act of resolution. Thank you very much for agreeing to this so we don't get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33140	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The reference to the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia is necessary to begin with the conclusion of a undoubtedly positive and often highlighted fact. THE two countries have concluded more than 30 interstate agreements since their independence to this day. However, all of those interstate agreements and agreements are due to a mutual desire for legal regulation of facts. That in early 91s Croatia and Slovenia were part of the SFRY while since the fall of the 91st independent state. All those agreements were of mutual interest. They were not concerned and do not concern any state property or territory, and it is logical that they should and could have been without a problem concluded. This debate and this analysis concern, in particular, those cases for which the agreements are not concluded. Although there were no obstacles to their conclusion on the Croatian side. In spite of Croatia's unquestionable rights, Croatian diplomacy has missed all favourable opportunities in all disputes with Slovenia and two possible reasons. First, underestimating the weight of the problem, it is underestimating stubbornness and immoderate ambitions on the Slovenian side. Secondly, the belief that all problems with Slovenia will be solved on its own. That's it. For love in the spirit of some brotherhood and unity with the Slovenian people. In any case, according to Slovenia, a strategy is chosen which can be called active passiveness, i.e. Better not do anything than do anything. Even wrong. Reliable to transparency, of course. In this way, every initiative in interstate disputes with Slovenia has been lost. That so-called. The strategy has been implemented in combination with already business Croatian cooperation. For Croatian diplomacy alone, the concept of interoperability means a willingness to have no reasonable concessions and not just a willingness to open dialogue on a problem. And that very strategy with that kind of operation has created the state we're in today. So a condition worth reminding of. In which supply of electricity to Croatia from Krško depends on whether it is ready, local elections in Slovenia or not. In which the Croatian citizens save every hope of state protection in the Ljubljanska Banka, they want to argue with the bank in the Slovenian court on their own. In which various Slovenian institutions from the Slovenian Parliament and the government via the Slovenian MUP, as well as the military to public enterprises, are seizing Croatian property and territory in turn. When they like it. While Slovenian maritime police in Croatian territorial waters intercept the bodies of Croatian fishermen. And so on. Such relations of the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia show how shallow the Slovenian understanding of Europe is and how difficult it is to give up brotherhood and unity and the benefits of the former state. So whenever it comes to Croatian property and territory, Slovenia behaves in the spirit of brotherhood and unity. As if the former state had never ceased to exist. So all that is Croatian is also Slovenian. But when it comes to Slovenian ownership, Slovenia applies a completely different tactics. It is a sovereign European state, which clearly holds on to its ownership and its territorial integrity. And finally, it is becoming increasingly difficult for Croatia to give way to the border, nuclear banks in Krško, Ljubljanska Banka, and so on they are thoughtless or malicious. Croatia can achieve its goals in all disputes with Slovenia, only without a compromise defence of its rights. In other words, acting as a sovereign European state. Because a state that is unable to defend its property, such as the power plant in Krško and which holds little to its territory, can hardly leave an impression of a country that can guarantee the safety of foreign investment and be any partner for anything. The prerequisite for this is national i.e. A multi-party consensus on strategic objectives of interests that could have been achieved months and years earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33142	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33143	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm glad this topic came to the agenda. Since we live in an area bordering the Republic of Slovenia, they can point out in a way that we face almost daily. It is certain that our relationship with our neighbours especially at the local level in our area is very correct, but the fact is that there are also problems. Some of them are practically separated from the isolation of the two states. The fact that there was also a failure to negotiate with neighbouring Slovenia from that famous demarcation parade. Some others, too, but some of the problems with our neighbors, we were able to create and create our own problems for our citizens living in that border area. So as the head of the municipality in 2002, I was in charge of clarifying our Ministry of Finance that it is not right and it is not correct to charge VATs and customs if they import a agricultural product from their parcels from neighbouring Slovenia or cut off their smelt in neighbouring Slovenia. After our tenacity and hard work, we did it anyway. The fact is, some problems have been solved. Thanks to the border transport and co-operation agreement, today the population in the border area is being used normally by both sides. He handles his agricultural properties and uses his forests without any major problems. And the very little border crossings in our area are mostly arranged and trained for transport. Surely one of the big problems is stopping road construction towards the Croatian border. On the Slovenian side, however, the colleague Cain said this is present in our area. I can say that how dissatisfied we are with it are residents living in Slovenia, Slovenian citizens. For example, a break from the New Town for Bela Krajina and its reconstruction was planned for Croatia only in 2015. Nothing before. And virtually all other roads are practically not predicted within a decade. But what is a burning problem at this point that many colleagues have pointed out in the debate, it is certainly the payment of the pensions of our citizens, pensioners who have made their pension in neighbouring Slovenia where they have often spent their entire working life. In a similar position there are our employees, our employees who work there. Today, pensioners have practically been taxed a full pension of 16% and more since the new year so that some of the New Year's get a lower pension of up to one third. Slovenian pensioner who spent the same working life in the same workplace gets up to a third higher pension than a Croatian citizen living in Croatia. Which certainly isn't correct. The fact is that in 1999 a double taxation avoidance agreement was drawn up and as far as I know about the mandate of the former government for four years has not been done much, has not been done much. So I welcome the government's decision to join neighbouring Slovenia in negotiating the signing of a double tax avoidance agreement. And as far as I know, such a meeting has been arranged for half of next month. However, I believe that all issues with neighbours should be settled in agreement in the spirit of good neighbourly cooperation because there must be far more things that bind us to neighbouring Slovenia than there are problems, and problems should be dealt with normally. There are positive examples, positive examples of Slovenian investment and investors in our country where these companies are also very correct in doing business and hiring our people and are always welcome as investors. Well, I don't think any tightening of relationships would be good, and that's why I don't think this resolution should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33144	On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33145	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party of pensioners is very interested in developing good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Slovenia in such a way as to establish bridges of cooperation and not points of separation in a continuous media game of good and bad players. We appreciate this debate as useful and encouraging but cannot accept it in the context of what is said to draw attention with cooperation with the Criminal Court in The Hague, on the issue of cooperation with the Republic of Slovenia. Croatia also needs good relations and the start of negotiations with the European Union and cooperation with the Criminal Court in The Hague and cooperation and good relations with all neighbours without exceptions, not the principle or-or. We certainly have, as has already been said, the right to require the Croatian Government to inform us what it is doing in certain areas, but had the right and obligation to question the inertness and incompatibility of our systems with systems that neighbours or members of the European Union have. In doing so, I think primarily of agreements between pension systems that can be ratified in parliaments after they are negotiated and it is not necessary for the government to negotiate in everything, but to put an end to and between what experts from individual, individual areas will negotiate. And I have to say, it's not about double taxation, it's about taxing pensions in Slovenia starting from 1.1.2005. To be honest, pensions from abroad in Croatia are not taxed. Except that they should be subject to an annual application if the person reports it, annual income tax returns. Of course, the Croatian government through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through Croatian diplomacy, all events, all changes in the system among neighbours and the wider seas must be monitored and must react resiliently so that citizens will not be damaged. However, the fact is in one of the states and pensioners and all other citizens will have to be tax, taxpayers. Of course, systems need to be arranged to benefit our citizens, not to go to harm and leave them to the time course that I regulate these, these relationships. The Croatian pensioner's party stands in the position that the first and dominant point to be resolved is the issue of pension systems and it is urgent and of course that this issue should be given first priority. Of course, we all have the right to encourage the government together, of course we can call the government, of course the government's bill will come at the expense of local elections. There is only one thing we cannot do, which is to define the strategy and priorities of the Croatian government because we chose it and it must define it. We also cannot ask for the same arbitration and negotiation. That's, that's not a negotiation. What we can certainly do is the next conclusion that we can ask the Government to present to the Croatian Parliament urgently and publicly the dynamics and priorities of resolving open issues in the development of good neighbourly relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. Such a conclusion would support the Croatian party of pensioners. As he supports here the prominent attitude of Mr. Cain's esteemed colleague that citizens of both states want to live, work, work, cooperate and develop cooperation in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33146	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33147	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community's club sees the debate on this topic as welcome, but it does not consider the resolution as good or content or form, nor does it see it as a contribution to resolving open bilateral issues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the government policy of the Republic of Croatia and hopes that all open issues will be resolved in a constructive dialogue based on good neighbourly principles and on international law. Of course, it is necessary to protect our national interests and provide solutions that will meet all the goals that we set as a state. Both in the case of the state border and in the case of the Ljubljanska Banka and in the case of the so-called "The Truck War", the Krško Nuklearka, and in the case of all other open questions. It should be pointed out that bilateral relations between Slovenia and Croatia are good and meaningful, especially those economically. And I am particularly emphasising the political context of the active Slovenian support for the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and I expect that the Republic of Slovenia will continue with this support over the next few weeks. Therefore, any unilateral move or leaping between state agreements would certainly be counterproductive and in the long term unsuspecting and harmful. I also remind you that after the elections, there has been some shift in bilateral relations, that an atmosphere has been created that can guarantee the resolution of open issues and reminds me of the conclusions of the two prime ministers' meeting. It is therefore concluded that there is a mutual will to resolve the remaining issues and it is estimated that these issues cannot overshadow the good relations of the two countries that we had before and which we will have in the future in the common European Union. It is agreed to approach, in particular, the conclusion of an agreement on the avoidance of incidents at sea and on the crossing of the border. The establishment of a Croatian-Slovenian historical commission with the task of considering relations between the two countries and the peoples throughout history has also been agreed, and this commission will certainly contribute to further development of a positive climate in which these relations can develop as well. One of the agreed things is also the holding of a joint session of the two governments, which should be held by summer 2005 in the Republic of Croatia and following the agreement of the two prime ministers should continue political consultations at lower levels. At the level of State Secretary for Political Affairs, the foreign ministers of the two states would then draw up a kind of deadline to implement the agreements between the presidents of the two governments. He would conclude in the end that foreign policymaking is not simple, nor is it a banal job, as some speakers in their discussions sought to present. It is primarily responsible for achieving state objectives and for protecting national interests. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the government of Ivo Sanader and Croatian diplomacy in all efforts to resolve open issues and ensure a stable future of Croatian-Slovenian relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33148	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33149	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues not for the same motives, for the same reasons and arguments that the HDZ colleagues have now said, and we think that the adoption of such a resolution is not a contribution, is not a contribution to resolving what we would like to address in that resolution. On the contrary, we think that the problems of Croatian and Slovenian relations have escalated in a negative direction over the past year. These problems, these problems get bigger, and they don't get solved. Maybe because they haven't, because they haven't solved the old questions, new questions are being raised. The fact is, at this point, we have a truck war we didn't have a year ago. The fact is, pensions are taxed. The fact is that there was no representative of Slovenia on one if you want to make a symbolic gesture, such as the presence of the president's inauguration. This says that the quality of relations between the two countries is getting worse. And that is the real reason for concern, but also the reason why maybe instead of one such resolution we are really going as some colleagues from other clubs suggest, with one conclusion that we will ask the Croatian Government to move more decisively, bolder and smarter into solving to see what the strategy really is. In this resolution, indeed, someone rightly warned themselves about the principle of resolving certain issues, and at the same time, negotiations are being sought and arbitration sought. We need to see if it is not, and obviously it is not the full acceptance of one, one whole strategy that has been shown as issuing national interests by the former government that I continue to believe was an excellent attempt that could have solved the real problems of people in this country if it had not been for further frustration of the public both in Croatia and Slovenia so that these problems would probably be resolved in the past, in the past term, in the term of the past government. But let's let it go now, let's put it aside now. I am convinced that since this is a public transmission to create an impression that someone is not in favour of this proposed resolution, it means that the thing is pushing under the carpet as we just heard it, it's not good. This is a contribution to creating a new extra frustration about the problems that are clearly present, which we recognize here. And so I propose one conclusion, and to remain perhaps on, as is the case with fellow Letica and Tadic, they signed the Savudrija memorandum in the beech house to remain, let's say, such a memorandum, and that we as a Parliament are going with a conclusion towards the Croatian government towards an effective solution and an effective strategy in resolving relations with the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33150	Thank you. To this moment, Parliament's work at the gallery is being followed and the pedagogues of Zagreb schools, so we take the opportunity to welcome them. And on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33151	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, listening to the latest statements on behalf of HDZ and SDP clubs, I must say that on behalf of the HSP Club, I am shocked by the fact that representatives of the Croatian Parliament are running away from their responsibility. I'm shocked by the fact that you're running away from your responsibility and using the word that someone here in the Parliament understands or has a banal approach to international, international policy-making, foreign policy of this government, but the consequence of all this is that it's not being solved. Which isn't working in these areas. If we had got new problems, that we had at least one solution so far in solving problems with Slovenia. And first, Mr. Vidovic is going to the negotiations normally. If I can't negotiate, then I'll go to arbitration or whatever. You can go to one of the international courts. Normally, that way is both the process and the course of solving all this. But nothing's been solved. Nothing's been solved. First of all, I'm talking about the issue of the maritime demarcation. Is it settled? It's not. Slovenia is now saying that it will declare its ecological zone. Is the question of St. Gera settled? It's not settled. Is the pensioner's question settled? The pensioner's question has not been resolved. So, day by day, we have more problems, and none are solved. And the fact that the prime ministers met, that they would meet, it doesn't mean anything. She doesn't mean anything. It'll mean an agreement for the pensioners. It will be known more when the issue of debt and everything is resolved, for fishermen when the issue of demarcation is resolved, when the issue of the fishing-environment zone is resolved, and this means nothing. And let's not forget Croatia has a parliamentary system. The Croatian Parliament is in charge of the Croatian government. We don't have an office system that the government is in charge of us. Let's not forget that. And at least I expected one piece of courage to say in the end of my colleagues from HDZ and others, when they won't ask and support this part of the resolution, if they don't want to have at least written in subjection we ask the government for Croatian citizens to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33152	Thank you. I must say, as a doctor, I've assessed that you're not in a state of shock after all, so I didn't call the ambulance. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Tomasic, I'm sorry Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's not true that nothing was done. It's just not true. There is an agreement if cooperation has already risen to a new, more quality level then that is the assumption that the issue will be resolved. How do you think the pensioner's question would have been resolved otherwise, without... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do you mean, no deal? Well, you can't force someone to behave the way you want them to. We need to sit down and make a deal. Of course, this is a significant issue and it must be resolved on the basis of the agreement. What has been done so far guarantees that this will be discussed, that it will be negotiated in one quality atmosphere and certainly at a common table.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33154	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33155	. This is now a motion for a resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals from the debate, I am voting on the following conclusion: The motion for a resolution on the principles of the interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia, proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSP, is not accepted. Here's Agent Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33156	On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. President, it is the same according to the Rules of Procedure... /The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33157	The written proposal, there are proposals put forward by committee clubs not to accept this motion for a resolution that you have submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33158	You should, no, no, no. Then you're, No, no. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Uh, according to the Rules of Procedure, it exactly says that there must be a written I'll formalize it. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33159	I can't formalize... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33160	It's not that. It's in the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33161	So you wouldn't... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33162	Look, it wasn't on the work body. If it had been on the working body then it would have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33163	Okay. I get it. Okay. So we'll put it to the vote on the proposal for a conclusion, so I have to make a proposal for a resolution. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Well, I do know the motion for a resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations. So here's the deal. We'll vote on the motion for a resolution, it's proposed. For, against, abstention. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score, score? The motion for a resolution got 18 votes, 10 abstentions, 77 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33164	We're going to the 10th point of the agenda. - Proposal for a law on the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 172 Proposer of Law Representative Slaven Letica. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Immigration. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here's a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33165	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. First of all, he would point out one more time, it is about the law, the bill in the first reading, and I call on all of you colleagues and interested individuals outside the Croatian Parliament to try to reach a second reading to resolve some of the doubts that the Government points to, in principle, to which all three committees that supported this law in principle, are concerned with some classic terminology issues related to the concept of emigration, return, diaspora, etc. to make a good law. First of all, I would like to thank the Croatian government for supporting this law. To support today any law that advocates diaspora rights is politically a very risky job. This is the moment I speak here in Sibenik in front of the Croatian National Theatre and in the Sibenik Market according to the report of today's "Evening List" by a young man named Hrvoje Crnjak, on behalf of the youth of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, collects some petition against the right of diaspora to rights, voting rights, and he says in a press release: Diaspora cannot choose the legislative and executive power in Croatia and thus determine our fate. It is unacceptable for a U.S. citizen with an average salary of $3000 to choose representatives of a Croatian citizen who receives an average of 3 thousand kuna. In addition, Croats in BiH are not diaspora but indigenous and constitutional people, and therefore they are collecting the petition. This little digression would like to serve me to give you a principled point of view. Yesterday, I am very pleased to spend almost all day listening to the hearings of this Committee for the "Vicor Lenac". It was an educational experience that each of you colleagues would recommend spending one day and going there. When you listen to this carefully, you conclude that the basic problems of Croatian society, the Croatian citizen, Croatian states are neither a high external debt of $30 billion or unemployment of 320 thousand, not even corruption or organised crime but are our own, these are serious problems, but our problems are much deeper and more fundamental. When you listen to the excuses of these people and answer questions, you conclude that basic problems are our irresponsibleness, intellectual laziness, unconsciousness of their own position and responsibilities and some general laxity. The basic questions concerning the Victor Lenac case have answers I don't know, no. I don't think it's the role of the minister of this or that, the Prime Minister didn't want any part of it. You know, I've had a long conversation with Galbraith, the most translated political economist in this country, and there are few people who know that, he was the finance minister of the war government, and he told me that he personally approved every price change, every investment greater than $10,000. And that's where Victor Lenco is concerned about hundreds of millions of dollars, kuna, and people think they're not responsible, and I believe them. So in that sense, I'm going back to this topic. What exactly is this about? In the past few years, the myth of hostile emigration has been restored. It's about ignorance. Leading Croatian so-called Scientists, I mentioned Vesna Pusic or Mirjana Kasapovic, whom I accidentally met last night, they simply did not read the last 10 years of professional literature. Indeed, up until 10 years ago, the situation was such that it was insisted on the known Locke rule that citizenship was linked to the territory, with the fact that man lived in the area and paid taxes. The situation today has been completely changed, led by the Council of Europe doctrine, and the European Union has discovered a great wealth in the diaspora. It already distinguishes fiscal residence and fiscal sovereignty from all other forms of sovereignty. A great football player, a tennis player pays taxes in Monaco, lives in Munich, flies on the island of Hvar and drives there by Furi Radin and Caine which I must publicly praise. So in that sense we have to understand this is a small law, he doesn't solve a small segment I'd say 20 percent of the diaspora problem. Other problems relate to the definition of citizenship, dual citizenship, multiple citizenships, the way of representation. What's frightening is that today, at the beginning of the 21st century, the myth of hostile emigration and our people living outside, I don't know, 5, 15, 20 years is being treated as some kind of unwanted guests, and even petitions are being collected against them. I say these people are not guilty but people who do not know and ignorance is a very serious problem in Croatia. A few more words about the very concept of law. He was designed as some sort of allowed plagiarism compared to earlier law on defense attorneys. You remember that I was against the principle of specialised attorneys than I thought the attorney general could cover the issue of diaspora, disability, women, patients, whatever you want. We have tradition going in the direction of Swedish experience, and we think in the end that maybe it's not bad. So what will this man do, and how will it work? First of all, we have a few cases, and here I am going to list a few cases in the last 15 days. It's a cadet rebellion. People finish the world's biggest schools, come here and no one wants to hear or see them. You have another problem, let's say the people who finished leading universities in Europe, in the United States, in Japan are waiting here for the nostrication degree for a year, two or three years. What's scary is the state administration has such a system of choice of personnel that is openly discriminatory towards these people. I'll tell you the State Department case. In the general knowledge tests, there are questions in the intelligence tests of the type when Pero Kovacevic entered the Croatian Parliament and the man ended up in Princeton or who founded the "Evening List", who is the majority owner or who is the mayor of Varazdin and on this basis these children were openly discriminated against and not only discriminated in a practical sense, but they accumulated a complex of less value. They ended up leading universities, and because of what's called a "culturally bias test," they prove to be ignorant, sort of retarded. In this way, tests were also carried out for admissions to colleges with a mass of day-to-day political issues. And in that sense, dear colleagues, I ask you first of all to support this Law in principle, and above all, I ask you to help me with a second reading, that this Law be much better than it is in the first reading. Generally in first reading, it is not necessary to make perfect laws that people are motivated to contribute intellectually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33166	Thank you. On behalf of the club? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to request a break of 10 minutes for the agreement of the HSS Club regarding the follow-up of the session, voting and length of the session, since we could not obtain relevant information in the last few days. Please pause for 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33168	Okay. Okay, I'm setting a 10-minute break. Continuation is at 12 o'clock. To calm Chehok down. Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue the session. On behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33170	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club has requested this break, for reasons we have tried in the last few days to obtain accurate information on the continuation of this session, until it lasts, whether it will be called new, and on our statement that it is very important, and you will see why when voting on those points of the agenda that have already been carried out. We also felt that it was entirely of equal interest for the public to know what would happen and how in the Croatian Parliament by the 17th month when the start of the negotiations with the European Union was envisaged. Which is why it's important. First, it is important for the public to be aware of everything that is happening but to give the public an answer to certain open questions and to an open cold that the public has been experiencing over the past few days without finding answers to some of the questions that are important or important to the public at all. TO GO BACK to the part that we are, which is unquestionably all political parties, all parliamentary clubs are equally willing and willing to support the accession of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, all political parties, all parliamentary clubs, all MPs are fully and day, I sincerely believe they support approximation, but then it would also be in the same style to stick to what we agreed. First of all, the things we have agreed and are related to our process of approaching and starting negotiations. I therefore refer to the conclusion that we reached on 20 January 2005 that we should have reached before the start of negotiations with the European Union, it is concluded that the Croatian Parliament will hold a debate on the resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, which will be proposed by the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, we still don't have the National Committee, I hope that today at 1 o'clock, in a meeting with the Prime Minister and it will be settled, but in any case we are late for our conclusions, I don't think that such practice is simply good at showing the credibility of our approach and what we are doing. I think that the same conclusions that have already been passed for almost a month, meaning February 4th, the conclusions of the HSS, SDP and HNS Club on those conclusions concerning the revision of the conversion and privatisation carried out, and it has been said by the President of the Parliament that they will be brought into line through the joint action of all parliamentary clubs, unfortunately, and this is not agreed. We also made it very clear in the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal benefits of the European Union certain additions to the legislation that we must adopt, among them is the Law on fostering domestic production for tourism placement. The government has already rejected the bill and we agreed only on January 20th to make it an integral part of that package of legislative measures that we will enter into the European Union. So it's not on the trail of those agreements that we've all made here together. And the third thing I think the public has the right to get an answer about what's going on, what's going on with General Anto Gotovina, what's going on with the perception that's being created and agreed, what's happening with the relevant truth in that field, which is why the public gets confused, which is why new materials happen that want to change the perception of things, whether it's true or not, all together I think the public needs to know the truth. To conclude, I think if the session ends today, if it will not be called by 17th, then we ask that Croatia's Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader addresses the Croatian Parliament and says this very important point of view that I will firstly relieve the public of unnecessary anxiety, and gives us a very valid reason for the consensus that we have all brought together to support equally strongly. If there will be a continuation of the session next week and week until 17 then, of course, there will be opportunities and there will be opportunities for the prime minister to show his credibility in his own actions and by fulfilling the mutually agreed relations in the Croatian Parliament, which is precisely these conclusions and these acts that I have been talking about, I hope that we will be able to agree once again in the interest of all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33171	Thank you. Here are a few clarifications, so this 12th session, which was called for on 19, 20 and 21 January, 2nd, 3rd, and 4. 9th, 10th, 11, 16, 17th, 18th, 23rd, 24th and finally 25th of February, so this plenary session will be completed today. The next new session will, according to my current findings, be scheduled before 17 March, most likely there around 8, 9, these are powers under the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Parliament but here is the information I have for now. As for the vote that will take place today at 3:00, it will, of course, vote on all the discussed items of the agenda. This national committee that you mentioned and in the introduction you yourself mentioned that today with the prime minister is meeting at 1 o'clock where remaining obligations will be defined or agreed on the composition of the National Committee, we have to wait 13 hours. And as for the address of Prime Minister Sanader, you thought today or if the session is not called by March 17th as I understand it, here is the information that the new session will be called on March 8th and 9th, with this, and you probably know the President of the Parliament has the flu but will come to the vote today, if there is any further information we can get from him. Thank you. We continue the debate, or rapporteurs of the Committee, on this agenda point. Committee on Immigration, Honored Representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33172	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Martinec is representing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed this item of the agenda held at the 13th session of the 23rd month, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Professor Dr Slaven Letica, a representative at the Croatian Parliament, on 28 September 2004. The Committee shall, in accordance with its competence referred to in Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the bill's proposal as a home working body even though one other committee also wrote that the home working body, however, depends on how to approach this topic. The legislator explained his proposal and said he had accepted all the government's remarks except one, provided concrete data on the funds that the emigrants had received in the last 4 years. I will add here not only for the last 4 years, its goal is to destroy the myth of Croatian emigration and parts of the Croatian people outside the country, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as an enemy towards the country and help solve specific problems of emigrants and returnees. It opposes the right to citizenship by paying taxes and residence because no state does so. In the debate, the Committee members welcomed this proposal, as it points to the constitutional obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards emigrants and returnees and the need for better law-making to address the many problems of immigrants and returnees. They were left out in this Law proposal of the Law and of the Croatian national minority and parts of the Croatian people in other countries. Since the Law on Foreigners has been adopted in the past term, which gives very poor results, and is also used to suspend the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which is witnessed by numerous complaints from Croats, immigrants and returnees. Croats who come to settle after the adoption of the Foreign Law, or move into the Republic of Croatia, are treated as complete foreigners. The comments were received on the very title of the bill, as the Ombudsman cannot directly intervene as far as emigrants are concerned without the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or diplomatic consular network. In further discussion, the Committee members suggested that some definitions of returnees, emigrants, diaspora and their significance, the need for harmonisation of concepts, residence and residence with a decision of the Constitutional Court of 19 January 2000. Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, president of the Committee on Immigration, informed all those present to prepare the Law on Immigration and Return. Croatian gentlemen must conduct a thorough debate on emigrant policy and adopt laws and programmes for the return of Croats, emigrants and the immigration of their descendants, as well as programmes for the integration of foreign immigrants. Following the implementation of the debate, the Committee reached the following conclusion most of the votes. Proposal for a Law on Advocates for Croatian Immigrants and Returns is a valuable initiative, as it opens the possibility for a thorough debate in the Croatian Parliament on Croatian immigration policy and constitutional obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards emigrants and parts of Croatian peoples in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33173	Thank you. By the Legislative Committee, the Constitution? There isn't. We're going to the club debate for 15 minutes. Honorable representative of Vice Vuk's SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33174	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I have to say right away and of course I'm doing it quite personally, I never had any reservations according to the idea of returning our emigrants to the land of their great-grandfathers, their ancestors. To those who know it, and most of you know it, all the tragedies of moving to moments are a little bit of a real proportion of the disaster of the people, like at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, when Stjepan Radic was involved in the idea of moving to America. I wrote believe it or not in 1971 in the Croatian weekly that the eviction of our people is actually our biggest problem in the long term. But this proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees in itself raises a number of doubts and concerns. They begin, I would dare say the very proposed name of this law, then as described by the Ombudsman, and the definitions of the key to this text continue. Article 2 of this proposal defines the role of the Ombudsmans, and I quote "the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia monitors and promotes the rights of interests of Croatian emigrants and returnees under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and laws". The formulation seems to me to be scarce at least. And I wonder, isn't it suggesting both the powers and capabilities of that attorney who would really be difficult to bring things into line with the real state of affairs? The doubts also encourage the fact that emigrants and returnees in this formulation are perceived as some related concepts that can easily be covered by legal solutions that will be an effective means in the hands of the Ombudsman. I don't think that's the way things are. The emigrant is the person who, with the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, has the most frequently arranged status in the country in which he lives, often citizenship, otherwise there would be a stranger who, for a short time or another time, or in any case temporarily resides there, so he could not be an emigrant or perhaps be an asylum seeker, so again, he could not be an emigrant. In any case, the emigrant lives and acts in a legal order that our lawyer could not have any influence, but only indirectly through consular representations that are there to act in accordance with the provisions and spirit of international private law, in the broadest sense of the word. I believe this has led to serious concerns about the concept of the real and possible role of the attorney general. Here, on several occasions, the Emigrant Mother is mentioned. However, to say as an additional confirmation of previous thinking that the Emigrant Mother is only in contact with emigrants, and not with returnees, and that is mostly in terms of promoting and encouraging their cultural ties with the homeland, everything else remains in the jurisdiction of our consular offices in whose dealings the Emigrant Matica cannot, of course, be mixed. And when emigrants become returnees, this emigrant Matica loses practically every jurisdiction over them, it helps them, of course, because it is human, but most often by referring them to the proper structures of the administration of the Republic of Croatia to the relevant ministries responsible for taking them over to say and continue caring about their formal integration into our society and their efforts to become equal members of society. Because I would say the most one returnee could do is become equal to other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, right. This is, however, circumstantial, but valuable evidence that the practical role of the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees would be really difficult to define unequivocally, except I dare say if it is not an attempt to ensure the greater impact of emigration on the life of the Republic of Croatia through such an institution, but of course it is a different topic. Proposer as I said offers a definition of other key concepts here as well. They're opinions I'm also incomplete and undefined which is certainly odd when it comes to definitions. Because according to the definition of Latin, we have a definition that the definition should therefore be worded, defined, clear and unequivocal description of some concept. However, it is difficult to argue that it is specific and clear that the Croatian emigrant is quoted in Article 3. "every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has a temporary or permanent residence in any country in the world other than the Republic of Croatia". By the way, does this mean that a student who legally says in accordance with the laws of the country in which he resides, so who can stay abroad for years could have the status of Croatian emigrants? But what seems far more important to me. There is certainly the most prominent aspect of this story here. According to this definition, Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina would also be emigrants. I must reach out to one of you all well, I believe you remember, an event that is certainly relevant and authentic in the sense in which we are now discussing. When Dr. Franjo Tudjman, you remember well, in February 1990 he cried out from the "Lisinski" Hall's pay phone to 1. The HDZ Assembly and the statement "nota bene" received the biggest round of applause, although his speech was followed by applause uninterrupted. So, when he said then, I quote in the memory "that Bosnia and Herzegovina is also the state of the Croatian people" so he didn't think that was the case. that Bosnia and Herzegovina is also the state of the Croatian people because some emigrants from the Republic of Croatia live there, people whom the Republic of Croatia should therefore be some authentic country of origin. It is hard to believe that the Croats there and the constitutive people and emigrants are at the same time. In any case, these kind of misunderstandings should be removed, I would say, once and for all, and not just from this text. The definition of Croatian returnees in this bill is in an even more delicate way questionable. The Croatian returnee is according to the definition set out here, I quote Article 3 again, each citizen of the Republic of Croatia who is outside the country. I hope there's no doubt out of the country here. It can only mean outside the Republic of Croatia. So he spent more than a year abroad and returned to the Republic of Croatia and settled there. I will not, of course, speak again about students, diplomatic consular representatives, members of economic missions, or I do not know what other persons who are staying abroad for some reason, because it seems most important to me here, too, to point out that there is a question of the status of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those who, although emigrants to this point mentioned before, cannot be reciprocated to me by the wrong definition. Namely, if I am not mistaken among the Croatians of the neighbouring country there are also those who have the nationality of the Republic of Croatia although they have never lived in the Republic of Croatia. And how no one can go back to where he was not, and that is exactly what the very definition of Croatian returnees mentioned, then it is clear that Bosnian-Herzegovic Croats, according to the provisions of this proposed law, cannot be, although emigrants could never be returnees. So I'm stressing that it's about definitions and that by nature things shouldn't leave that kind of doubt. I'd like to warn the proposer of a symptomatic inaccuracies. On several occasions, this text mentions the Emigrant Mother of Croatia or as I would say. An institution which, therefore, called Croatia's Emigrant Mother until 15 years ago and since then is called the Croatian Emigrant Queen, would already have been, of course, worth mentioning and warning. But this mistake to be in the process of new tendencies in the proposal's spelling hides a very significant notional and doctrinal conflict. For reasons of clarity, I will mention in part Article 20 of this proposal of the law because it directly demonstrates this re-negotiation which otherwise dominates the entire text. Article 20 provides that the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants will also be approved by the Emigrants Mother of Croatia. So, although the same emigrants are in the case of the queen emigrants from Croatia and in the case of lawyers are Croatian emigrants. In everyday speech, of course, this may seem to be not a particular mistake because we do not need to pay particular attention to what we are talking about in daily communication. But it's not the same at all, and it points to important and obviously unsurpassed differences in the perception of statehood. The creators of the new name Matice were obviously aware of this because they did not call it the Emigrant Mother, but rather the Croatian Emigrant Queen. So they didn't use a syntagma that's going through the entire text of this bill. And then what's the difference? The "Croatian emigrant" Syntagma points to the people and the "Immigrant from Croatia" syntagma points to the state and thus puts all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the same plane. And as I'd say right now, the people who are a little hard on us seem to be. The people and the state are nothing but the same essence. This law should be changed from the title because it would speak with another spirit today, given the fact that there is a state and that the state is the fact that it is decisive for all the concepts that go through this and every other text here. Therefore, it could be called the Law on the Croatian Ombudsman for emigrants and returnees or the Law on the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia for emigrants and returnees. This text therefore sits well with its part of the situation I would say in another today already prevailing and non-existent time but it deserves one special whole processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33175	Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of the HSP Club, a colleague of MP Ruza Tomasic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33176	Thank you very much, Madam President. My colleagues and colleagues! The HSP club in principle supports the proposal to adopt the Law on Ombudsmans for Croatian emigrants and returnees. At the same time, we draw attention and propose that the proposed law be the first in a series of laws to regulate and relations with Croatian emigration or immigration. In the opinion of the HSP Club, there are several important problems that need to be regulated more precisely, and this is the first thing Croatians need a special immigration law. Of the available laws on immigration, the HSP Club is most prone to solutions under the Israeli Immigration Act. Croatia has already become a settler country but has no regulated priority in the rights to gain labour and citizenship. Other countries favour and stimulate the return of their own citizens living outside the country. Why couldn't Croatia, especially leading experts and successful business people who can help Croatia with their knowledge and experience? The disappointed and deceived returnees in Croatia have a large number. Most of these people helped the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War and when they tried to invest in the same Croatia, they were deceived and played. Unfortunately, many have returned to the countries from which they came. And if we had such a law that protects such phenomena, it would be possible to avoid and could be expected that the Croats from the emigrants will regain confidence in Croatia. Except for those who have capital. I'm sorry, except for those who do not have capital that are fewer Croats have mainly in South America who are not rich and who Croatia could help return to their homeland because they themselves do not have the funds. Croatian politics must not ignore the facts about the reasons why much of the Croats left Croatia, although we can say for most that they are so-called. Economic emigrants. It is not difficult to argue that in the position of poverty and the necessity of immigration they have been brought into politics. In countries where other peoples did not have mass migration until the restoration of the Croatian state, the Croats are living in, which alone tells themselves what the situation of Croatia really was. Secondly, the new Act on the Matika of Croatia is one of the oldest Croatian national institutions that enables cultural and any other links between the Republic of Croatia and the diaspora in the new historical circumstances of European integration and globalisation of communication. Third, amendments to the Law on Citizenship. With particular emphasis on dual citizenship, the problem of dual citizenship is dramatically emerging in relations between Croatia and neighbouring countries, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Croatia, citizenship has been allocated to everyone in a way that is easy and liberal compared to other countries. At the same time, most Croats in emigration do not have Croatian citizenship due to bureaucratic obstacles and state carelessness. The entire package of electoral legislation should be completed and specified to guarantee the voting rights of the Croatian diaspora. The HSP has proposed a bill that provides for a letter vote as well as in some other developed democratic countries. Contrary to those who advocate voting rights to citizens who do not pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia, we in HSP are seeking respect for the Constitution and we oppose proposals that require a return to the 19th century and the introduction of a tax census into electoral law. It is also unacceptable to condition the electoral right of permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. All Croatian citizens must have the same rights. The eviction attorney is a good first step in solving the problem and therefore the HSP Club will support the proposal. They would only pray if it changed in Article 3 where it says that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has spent more than a year and who has returned and settled in the Republic of Croatia is considered to be a Croatian returner to the letter and spirit of this Law. The HSP Club would be here to change in 3 years because most countries, especially Canada and America, need 3 years to gain citizenship there. So I'd like this to change in three years. Also in Article 4 of the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees, no one shall give instructions and a warrant in his work. It's also a little too dangerous. He could have too much authority and his laws might be in violation of the laws of the country of origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33177	Thank you very much, colleague. The proponent of the law, representative of Slaven Letica, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33178	Madam Vice President, first of all, I would like to thank the parent committee or one of the parent committees. I have already accepted on the board most of these remarks, these mistakes concerning the name of the Croatian Emigrant Queen. Here I would take the opportunity to thank Mr. Vica Vukov for a very articulate debate, however, it is not so easy to resolve. Croatian language is as you know a very poor language when it comes to modern concepts not only in the area of international law of the state, entrepreneurship, economy, modern IT technologies but in general. Let's just say that the notion that I'm trying to do here in some way is sort of solve this Semantic and Terminological problem of returnees and emigrants in English is solved very simply with the term "ex patriot" which covers more and less everything. So we have a lot of ideas about how to make love, how to fight, how to eat, but when we get to the problem of "due diligence" or procreation or embryos and the problem of "ex patriot" it's not so easy to solve. I accept the remarks that there should be an increase or a limit of stay outside to obtain that status, perhaps three years, and Mr Radin has just drawn my attention that in another way, I should also determine how long the returnee retains that return status. Maybe three years again. And finally the last dilemma that appeared there, which is the relationship between the institution of the attorney general for ex patriots and state institutions, as well as the Croatian state institutions outside, consular offices, diplomatic offices and other different institutions. The Ombudsman institution everywhere in the world and as an institution of the Ombudsman is an intermediate institution between the individual and the state. It is a great privilege for this institution to have many institutional solutions in the European Union, and when it comes to political representations and the solution of citizenship, but this would be the first case for the institutionalisation of defenders in this area. Because the basic problems our people had when they were coming back and leaving are related to the state administration. The state administration won't nostrate, they won't issue location permits. The state administration will not grant Glamina a guarantee to a bank where the majority of Croatian emigrants and returnees were spared, and at that time, with 50 million bank guarantees, the bank could be saved and so on. So this institution is always on the side of the individual and communicates with all institutions of the state within Croatia and Croatian representations in the world. The problem is special, especially the problem of Croats in neighbouring countries, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina and some kind of moral panic created in relation to the population. I must convince you when the Law on Citizenship is passed unless the logic of citizenship without borders, dual citizenships, multiple citizenships is accepted that we will force Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina to flee to Croatia or outside Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33179	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33180	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees who should indeed be supported in principle as an initiative that should result in a greater level of protection of the rights, interests of Croatian emigrants and returnees in terms of resolving the conflict relations they face primarily in relation to the effectiveness of the state administration. Unequivocally and fundamental provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia do not fail to regulate and worry regarding citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live or reside abroad or parts of the Croatian people in other countries. In addition to the declarative provision on the protection of the right of interest of Croatian citizens, the constitutional obligation is to promote ties with the homeland, and particularly guarantees the special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia to the parts of Croatian people in other countries. However, eyes should not be closed to problems that appear daily in communication between citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside the country. Here I think of both emigrants and returnees, therefore, of the overall evictive population in terms of their rights and obligations in the country and towards their country. The complexity of the relationships that they enter into each individual situation is actually a kind of specific instrument. And we can agree that we can look for new institutional and professional approaches to solve the problem we are facing here. And we will indeed be sure as a society of which to a greater or lesser extent are not immune or the environment from which Croatian citizens come with problems of so-called administrative obstacles, including corruption and blackmail, complicated bureaucratic procedures and everything that is thus meaningfully linked. However, here in the first place, an answer to the question is whether the proposed institution of the occupier for emigrants and returnees is the best institutional framework for the solution of the observed shortcomings. Is there perhaps another different better solution? What about the work and the action and the queens of the emigrants? The work and operation of diplomatic and consular representations, i.e. at the end of the line of action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, shall be carried out. What about the electoral system? Whether or not he needs to be modified as well. The Ombudsman himself therefore comes from the Swedish legal tradition as a separate legal institute and always appears as a representative of the Commissioner. So a representative of parliament whose time to time has been entrusted with control of the work of the executive authority. But always parallel or besides regular control. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the Advocate General of the Croatian Parliament which protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. Therefore, the Ombudsman has no direct power to his decisions, the decisions protect constitutional and legal rights of the citizens on which the courts decide, regardless of the civil extraparious and criminal matters. Article 7 is amended as follows: The Law on the Public Prosecutor, the Ombudsman, first of all, warns him that he is notifying and making recommendations he is studying and assessing individual cases, therefore individual cases of threat to the rights of citizens who have committed to them by the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority or employees in those bodies in the exercise of their duties. It should also be pointed out here that the attorney general does not normally act in matters where administrative or judicial proceedings are under way. If, at least on the surface, we can analyse the institution of the European Ombudsman, founded by the Treaty of Mastricht. The conclusion shall be made by a person acting as an intermediary between the citizens on the one hand and the institutions of the European Union authorities on the other. Its role is, in fact, to help but also to detect irregularities in the conduct of European institutions or other bodies of the European Union. And examples of such irregularities in conduct are both unfair procedures and discrimination and abuse of powers and inaccessibility or refusal to provide information, unnecessary delay, incorrect procedure. And now, when we put all of this in relation to a concretely offered legal solution, we find at least a whole series of questionable inaccuracies, so I would dare say in a certain sense unacceptable solutions. So let's take it in order, for example. Article 6(1), (2) and (3) Therefore, the monitoring of the application of the regulations or the monitoring of the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from international obligations is not only a reflection of the usual activity of the Ombudsman but is wrongly instituting an unacceptable way of controlling state institutions, which in this way promotes the Ombudsman as an over-institutional controller, which is directly contrary to these principles that the Ombudsman is both in Croatia and in the European Union as an institution. Furthermore, Article 7(1) and (2) It shall be placed in the primary part of the work of the Ombudsman an activity which must, at all, imply that there has been a specific case of infringement or threat to the rights of returnees and immigrants. This article would promote the defence attorney to the representatives of the so-called political and other emigrant attitudes. And in fact, the basis of the action would be for the political articulation of the views of the population, which is also directly contrary to this constitutional and legal based action by the lawyers and the legal practice that has developed from this Swedish positive example with us. And here it has developed, of course, in the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Advocates shall be pointed out first in the process of drafting laws or amending and supplementing existing rules. However, the notoristic fact is that it is the constitutional task of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the Ombudsman may appear there, but not that he puts it as one of the basic tasks in the sense of monitoring or proposing regulations, laws, so law as legal norms. Article 14 wrong and legally incorrect formulation. The obligation to report any criminal offences committed should be prescribed in another way. A term belittled or further elaborated and completely thrown out. I find it very difficult to accept the proposal to incriminate mistreatment as a single term, i.e. it may be subject to a criminal application if it is referred to the competent state attorney's office. This Regulation shall enter Also, the smallest hand is a questionable way or an attempt to define because here we have the Institute of Solicitor Immunities. And that regardless of whether you think about immunity or immunity of irresponsibility. This provision is also somewhat controversial from the constitutional legal aspect. Because if we go to the Institute of Immunity, then we must strictly comply with constitutional and legal provisions. Looking at the whole proposal in this form as regards the specific norms, i.e. the articles I spoke about, would not be acceptable for the reason I said. But absolutely as an initiative to discuss this issue, so from everything we've had the opportunity to hear from the proposings, it's absolutely in that sense to accept. And let me finally, or in conclusion, look back at what's currently being said or what's happening today. And that from this pay phone that these events today relate to the problem of immigrants, citizens of the Republic of Croatia living outside the country. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I say the following. The Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club strongly support the achievement of the constitutional rights of Croatian citizens residing abroad. Including active and passive voting rights, it will support everything that needs to be done to even enter the Institute of Postal Voting as one to reach the standard of Croatian democracy in relation to Croatian emigration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33181	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up is counterpart Frano Piplovic on behalf of the DC club HSLS. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33182	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, that Croatia, fortunately in the 1990s, had an institution of defenders for Croatian emigrants and returnees, is likely to have many Croatian returnees living in Croatia today. And their money that they then invested in the Homeland gave the expected results. Unfortunately, we all witnessed that one part of those people was actually one specific way cheated, robbed while you hit your palm hand. In the end, these people came back from where they came from or went to third countries. That's what the press has written about in a great time. The fact that these people were left with no money was another burden that they didn't expect, and that's one disappointment. And I believe that when he proposed this law, he took care of a bad, difficult experience like this, which is a burden on all of us, especially those who came back to Croatia and invested their money. Such a difficult one experience, a bad one experience three, and being a lesson for all of us so that something like that wouldn't happen in the future. Because actually these people came from another world, a world of work and markets where some other laws were in force, some other rules. Many of these people started believing in the homeland, but I said they had experienced disappointments before. This law that's being proposed here seems to be good for a few reasons. First, we will again have as a state a specialised and independent institution that will protect and promote the human rights of Croatian citizens living abroad, oversee the work and powers of the state administration. Another reason I'd like to point out why we think he's good, which will affect the change of one wrong picture of our citizens in the world as paralyses and poachers, is just how that money is going to be taken. The third reason I hold this proposal well is that Croatian citizens in the diaspora are a heterogeneous group. They come from different countries, from different continents, from different climate zones, language and traditional influences, then economic systems of different and degrees of development. This is one ombutsman institution that I think would serve as one first aid to all citizens, all returnees to Croatia. We are witnessing attempts by both the current government and the former government, and the former governments, in fact, to attract our emigrants to invest in Croatia again. But taught by negative experiences, these people smoke cold. I'm saying, that's why the ombutsman institution would be welcome as one place to re-create, connect Croatia and its emigrants. Because to launch Croatia, and that was the slogan, the political slogan of the Croatian Democratic Community, and I believe that no one has anything against that slogan, we need all its citizens and those from abroad and their work and their money and their knowledge and their connections and knowledge and technology with which they exist. The introduction of the Ombudsman's institution for emigrants and returnees is important for another reason. Especially because we have one category of Croatian citizens who left Croatia willingly or manipulated during the aggression on Croatia. These people are returning to Croatia today. According to this proposal, the returnee is the one who has been absent for at least a year, etc. from Croatia. These people get the status of returnees. Although we have special laws that regulate these relationships, we are not successful at all. There are many situations and cases that are burdened today in our daily and political practice and therefore we hold that such an institution of ombutsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees would actually be one, one kind of relationship with Croatia. We would get the first service, quality information, you must know that they are also our emigrants who are economic emigrants around the world and those who are called, let's say politically conditioned because of the consequences of the war, that they are full of different misinformation and when they come with such misinformation, with such information in Croatia clearly that it is often a conflict with the domicillin population. I believe that ombutsman would be one of the right places where such conflicts could be avoided in order to obtain quality and timely information. The ombutsman institution would also help calm the situation, reduce tension and manipulate especially the abuses we unfortunately witness. And it makes me think that in some cases that burden Croatia's present, we could have a concrete, flexible, effective effect. And the end itself. It seems to me that this one institution is also coming at the right time and because Croatia is now a candidate for entry into the European Union. This is also another proof of Croatia's readiness to try to resolve all open issues, including issues such as these of Croatian returnees in Croatia who return after a calming of war and war tensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33183	Thanks a lot, buddy. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33184	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I'm glad we can talk about this law. Finally, this is the first reading, so the debate can be principled. I'm glad to see that it can be polluted with a part of the text of the reasoning behind which Mr. Letica is behind it. For example. So on page 1, he states, among other things, that with the existence of the Emigrant Mother as very important, in fact the most important bond between the homeland and so on. The emigrants of Croatia, now under 1st a.b.c., existed and there was a significantly changed system of election of representatives who nominally represent the interests of emigrants and other Croatian citizens living or staying outside the country. However, Mr Letica continues, a practical experience confirms that these representatives act primarily as party representatives because of the rule of law and the interest of the diaspora. What I'm about to say may sound like a heresy. The IDS is an opinion, and we have often talked about this speaker that representatives from Bosnia and Herzegovina should not be represented in this House. Why? Bosnia and Herzegovina is their country, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the constituent people in the country. Let us now put aside what the dead are voting there, but I repeat to representatives from Bosnia and Herzegovina who I respect, absolutely respect as any citizen of that country, should not decide on opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. If HDZ now insists as we have heard from Mr Tomljanovic in a letter vote, we will consider very carefully whether, whether or not, to represent the issue that our citizens abroad can vote in favour of parliamentary elections. I know that many will object to me so-called. Italian or Portuguese, but I will continue to defend this position in front of the IDS Club. These people are nationals of another country or live in another country, not serving military service in Croatia, or this deadline, even though I am absolutely in favour of abolishing the military deadline, do not pay taxes in this country, so they should not decide decisively on the opportunities in this country. It would be clearly wrong to eliminate the Croatian diaspora entirely from political life. That would be absolutely wrong. That would cost Istria himself dearly. The IDS therefore believes that these people should act through a county home, more specifically through the so-called ". another home or senate that does not directly decide on everyday life in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So the diaspora must be participated in the public life of Croatia, but through the so-called Another home. Now it's a shame that we first increased the House of Representatives from 128 MPs to 152 and it's also a shame that we abolished the County House in 2001. I believe today it was simply a cardinal mistake. There should have been 128 mandates in this House by the end of 99th and 42 county deputies plus, say, three from the diaspora in the County House. But now what's going on? Because of the political pragmatism at the time, this House was abolished, and I repeat, in my own court, it was a mistake because it was also very well able to articulate the problems of diaspora and the problems of the county and the minority problem and the problem of local self-government, decentralisation, etc. When we talk about this law among other things, I come from the problems that the Istrians have abroad. If they were to create an institution that could help all of our citizens from the Republic of Croatia abroad, then such an institution and, among other things, this Russian emigrant lawyer, as proposed by Mr Letica, should be supported. Well, among other things, let's get rid of ourselves for, say, I don't have to react every so much to someone's housekeeper. So if we get an institution that takes care of the emigrants, I'll vote for it. Finally, only in New York City is 20,000 Istrians after the 1990s, and mainly in the period from 91st to 94th, when Istria alone ran out of 20,000 people of these jobs, one third of these people went abroad somewhere between 6 and 7 thousand mainly in Italy. One third of them 6 to 7 thousand open their trades, and one third of them 6 to 7 thousand retires. Today, some who talk about 20 thousand Istrians are funny to work in Italy, but 6 or 7 thousand are certainly correct and it is a respectable number, and in these people too should be taken care of. All these people have their problems. Many communicate daily with Croatia, with their families, parents, cities where they were born, everyone, at least I want to believe it, actually one big majority wants to come back. Many want to begin with the others in these areas I would say a new job in the Republic of Croatia and should help them, and this body should not be known how to express myself, at their disposal, at the service, must worry that they are not being blackmailed, that they are not being corrupt to obtain some work permit and so on. I know that the same question is raised by emigrants who are, they are from Croatia abroad, what is now the diaspora, etc. But let's play that termology. In BiH's internal affairs, Croatia should not get involved, we pay for this once in 92-94, but Croatia must also take care of this element as Italy does with its minority operating in Istria. For example, the Italian State annually identifies the Italian Union between 5.5m and 6.5m euros in aids that come well to the minority, but also to local self-government because of these 30 million kunas that come to Istria, their associations, circuses, etc. are being built. So if Croatia can help Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina financially, it is clear that it stands out for example. as it seemed to be a military component yesterday, but if any one can stand out for health on condition that we have conditions for ministers to be treated in our homeland, etc. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be helped mainly when they are disabled. I keep saying that about this pay phone, and here I mean those who were killed in the war, the Homeland War from 92 to 94, 95. I am the only one who voted from the left against the Homeland War Declaration and because of the the thesis that Croatia was not involved in the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but when disabled in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am 100% of the Croatia that invited them through its president and foreign minister to the war, helps them. And I finally defend it by saying that today the Italian state is paying some 12,000 to the citizens of Croatia and Slovenia at this time. Italian pensions, pensions, only therefore, this is a basic condition or one of the basic conditions that they were also in the Italian military, clearly there was Italy and where they wanted to go. Of course I'm doing everything I can to keep this right for the people of Istria. Absolutely. Does anyone finally know that during World War II, 20,000 Italians were killed in NOR units? That the first victim of fascist terror in Istria was Rovinj, Italian Pietro Ive, etc. etc. So we are fighting to stay that pension, and I am convinced that no one will question them because it is an agreement inherited by the Republic of Croatia, or Slovenia. So we will always stand for it as we are, and I have talked about it before, that this double taxation contract is finally concluded, that there is no further damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are part of the working century or who have spent their entire lives working in the Republic of Slovenia. If, on the other hand, someone has an interest in establishing such an attorney's office, it's IDS again. Why? In order for the Ombudsman to take care of the esules in some way, it means those who were evicted from the territory of the Republic of Croatia in 47, 54. There's about 186,000 of them. Exactly 186,000, in total with Slovenia around 220 to 230 thousand, not 350 thousand at all. We have gentlemen at this time 5 thousand 236 persons of those 186 thousand who sooner or later because they got laid off from Yugoslav citizenship, and the fate of their property was nationalisation, that property would get back. To those persons whose assets are nationalised in Slovenia, Slovenians are returning that property these days. So 5 thousand 236 out of 186 thousand when Croatia comes along. Clear between them and the optanans should always make a difference. Optants can only seek their property in Rome, not in Zagreb and Ljubljana, with Croatia being able to talk parallelly about their interns, those who have been imprisoned in concentration camps mainly from 43rd to 45th, because it is known that Germany has provided money for them, but it is interesting to the interns from Rab, Molata, Govinars, Rižarna, Dahao, etc. Italy didn't deliver. Here are some reasons why IDS will raise a hand for such a legal proposal. Perhaps Mr Letica didn't count on those moments, but that's when he talks from this aspect of the IDS Club. I claim it is time to make peace as evicted and native Croatia, which happened in the 1990s, also evicted and Homeland Istria, so to speak. The fact that some Italians, other Croats, other Slovenians are now less important. We live in 2005, dialogue policy must be a European policy, a policy of understanding and correcting injustice, is also a European policy, a precise policy of oblivion would be the wrong policy, but this attorney general seems to me, the IDS Club seems justified, as well as finally for women and children if it can help in some way the problems of these people and those communities. Finally, if the D.A. has children and women, then the emigrants can. For the end, the IDS will always help how the refugee citizens of Istria, those who have left for these or those reasons economically, but also those who are in New York today, in Germany from the Republic of Croatia means our worse leaves but also to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or to the refugee citizens of Serbian nationality who want to return to Croatia and have left those premises after 95 years. Clearly, they too need to create material assumptions, restore destroyed buildings, provide them with full security, achieve some economic prosperity in these parts. Itd. In one word, this topic is grateful to talk about the aspect on all sides and we support Mr Letica's initiative so much, we vote yes and I believe that the House of Representatives will vote for this initiative to go to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33185	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First came Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33186	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, these topics always spread the heart and soul of fellow Caine, so be it, in one minute I'll say as much as I can. It is not wrong for Croatian citizens to vote for the Croatian Parliament living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of Article 45, and I will not keep calling for that. You mentioned something that happened in 1990 in the unity of the country's emigrant Croatia created and defended country of Croatia. Sir, here you would be bound by the right to vote with taxes, you must know that still Croatian emigrants or people living outside the country of Croatia, not one minister or Shkegro, nor Mr. Minister of the Church could challenge me to bring more in the country annually than the Ministry of Tourism. If you want to know for yourself and it is true that Croatian emigrants come at least 3 times home not only from the European countries but also from overseas countries, maintain their families, there would be more social cards in Croatia on social security if it wasn't for families living outside the country. There would be fewer students who could not come to universities in Croatia if they were not helped by families outside the country. I'm a little bit tired of being told and answering everything you said in 15 minutes would take me at least half of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33187	Thank you very much. The next amendment is representative Ivan Bagarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Cain, I am not a representative from Bosnia and Herzegovina in this House, not Bosnia and Herzegovina has chosen me and elected in this House, I am only a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so also a Croatian citizen and citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina who, according to the constitution, has entered the Electoral Law as a representative of this Parliament. Therefore, where I will live, I now live in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Where I'm going to live in the future it's my decision to make. The second thing, I really don't know how many times I have to correct your second, because I'm a participant in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a witness from 92 to 94. Croatia did not interfere with the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but under the agreement Izetbegovic - Tudjman prevented the complete collapse of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croats and Bosniaks in defence in front of the Republic of Serbia and the Yugoslav Army. If it hadn't been for today, Republika Srpska would have been much bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33189	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first came from a representative of Nenad Szazic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his word. Next up is counterpart Pero Kovacevic. It's in the hall, but it's not immediately visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33190	I will be brief, I support the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman for Croatian immigrants and returnees, because from the debate itself we could hear a sufficient number of arguments that show and contribute to the need to regulate this issue and ensure that legal assistance is provided to both Croatian emigrants and returnees. I'm just going to be special, I'm not going to be making arguments that have already been made, I'm just going to look back at one part of the problem that is present today. The first group of problems is the problem of resolving the rights, i.e. the issue of the care of the families of the deceased members of the Croatian Defence Council and the Croatian Military Disabilities members of the Croatian Defence Council, we also know that they have participated in actions jointly with the Croatian Armed Forces under international agreements, and it is a sad fact that this issue has not been resolved to this day. The truth of the will in the hardworking Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been accepted only one part of the HSP Club's proposal has been said that this will be regulated by an interstate agreement, we have in our proposal that the level of law is as high as Croatia, with them receiving from Croatia the difference as disabled as they have with us in relation to what they get in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The situation from day to day is getting worse and offered one of the draft proposals of this interstate contract is more than bad and we have rightly received protests from members of the dead families of the Croatian Council of Defence and the Croatian Military Disabilities themselves. Speaking of these issues here, immediately if this is about the Homeland War, and another major problem that is present is the problem of our citizens, the Hague indictees who, for example, ask General Pralj, Prlic and we know General Petkovic, they cannot, unfortunately, come up with a dossier today that they know exists, which they need, which they need to refute the allegations. They speak to the government, the Ministry of Defence, everyone else in the country, but unfortunately nobody can get an answer or what they need and what Croatia is obliged to do. We know for ourselves that we have come to the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War, unfortunately the first stage has passed only the temporary director of the centre, we know for ourselves that it is located in the premises of the Croatian National Archives, we also know that the documentation is in more places today, that unfortunately the Hague investigators have more documentation than can be offered, which Croatia is obliged to give to its citizens, whether they are from Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether they are from Croatia, they are Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of Croatia or in the relief actions together as Croatian forces with HVO. These problems are increasing from day to day, and the problem is of course General Ante Gotovina, we see and now that he's gone on a general hunt, instead of taking legal and legal measures related to transcripts and other things to provide adequate assistance, we have seen for ourselves what speculations are now in play when politics has come to the dead end, then the media wants Ante Gotovina to show itself as a criminal and everything else and everyone knows that they are well aware that the judgments in the higher court are annulled which is spoken of but no one will say so. That is why I welcome this initiative and the Croatian Peasants' Party to discuss it as well. So this alone shows how much trouble there is and how necessary it is to have a lawyer, but I still have to say it in the end. This part of normal that the position of the Croatian party is the right for Croatian citizens living in the diaspora as in Italy, Portugal to vote but only normally for the parliamentary level, not for the local level. The local level is connected to the residence. Therefore, I don't think it should surprise anyone why, for example, Mr Furio Radin could vote in favour of the Italian elections and not be able to, say, vote in favour of the elections in Croatia. I mean, let's make that order and deal with it. Therefore, we hope that the motioner will accept all objections and proposals but also in the law ensure responsibility for these things that we have said that he has the power to seek, demand and even submit appropriate actions either infraction or others for the irresponsible who do not do what the laws of Croatia tell them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33191	Thank you very much, colleague. The promoter has come forward. Here you go, Mr. Letica! ... to provide information that at 13,15 the time of the ten-minute hearing has expired. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33192	Very short. I'd also like to thank the gentleman, all the debaters. Let me just say, this law does not address the question of citizenship, civil rights and electoral legislation. Therefore, Mr. Caine will give him one material to read to see that he is wrong. All countries had moral panic, fear of 70 million Iranians who would vote in Ireland, 8 million Spanish, Portuguese, German, 50 million ultimately vote between 20,000 and 40,000 people. As far as tax payments are concerned, Mrs Petricevic has already mentioned. This year's foreign exchange records, you can check it out on the National Bank website will be somewhere around $2 billion. Croatia's diaspora has delivered, made Croatia 100 billion dollars so far and Croatian authorities owe Croatia 30 billion dollars. That argument alone is enough. Therefore, as far as Mr Tomljenovic's remarks are concerned, he is in principle right but I will ask him to join. I'm now in a privileged position because I'm an independent representative, so I'd like to be the first of some kind of consensus law. He took into account the European Ombudsman and I took into account the legal gain of Croatian lawyers. All provisions in Articles 6 to 9, 14, 17 are no better than those laid down in the Laws of the Ombudsman for Children, for women and for the Advocate General. So, with us lawyers have some powers of analysis with the public, advisory, they can participate in draft draft laws. I will explain that what I propose is practically the legal property of that institution in other areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33193	Thank you very much. It is up to representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33194	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I have to single out a few of these so far exhibits and actually support those exposures. One of them is Mr. Vice Vukov and certainly Mr. Tomljanovic on behalf of the HDZ Club. I think it is also important to mention this occasion when talking about Croats in the world and using that term, the term diaspora is used to explain what it is, therefore, what the appearance of Croats in the world is. The Croats, except in Croatia, live as a sovereign people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, constitutionally, equally legal and that Mr. Vukov and you agree there is no dispute over the issue at all. Therefore, there is no speech, it is out of the mind to ask the question of what the Croats still want in Bosnia and Herzegovina there. Well, they are, and that's it. Then, Croats live in neighbouring countries, neighbouring countries as indigenous national minorities. Then, Croats live in western, especially in Western European countries on the so-called temporary work. It's a special category and then we have exactly the right one, in the right sense of the word diaspora. These are Croats in the overseas countries. I don't know either, from Australia to Canada and America. Each of these groups, gentlemen, has its own specialities, has its own opportunities, has its own desires and expectations. Who takes care of all of them? I'd say first of all they're on their own. So these are groups that have lived for centuries without the organized support of their own countries because they didn't have it and they manage in the world they are in. However, by the formation of the sovereign state of Croatia and the Article of the Constitution which clearly determines Croatia's care for that part of the population, that part of its people has been given much more. The same article also gives rise to the right to dual citizenship, and the right to vote. Well, my people, I can't understand that such a few people as Croatia allow themselves to discuss whether or not there should be a need to give the Croats the right to vote no matter where they are if they have dual citizenship. Well, my people, if the Italians have allowed one powerful world nation to do so, if the Germans have allowed it, if all the others and all the more allow those who haven't had it so far, we're in a position to ask ourselves, to do some I don't know what it is, besides all the demographics, the fall of demographics to ask such questions. It is not true that one day Croatia will have fewer inhabitants in 20, 40 or 100 years. That's not true. Here, I claim that Croatia will not have fewer inhabitants. Croatia is beautiful, beautiful, rich. They'll have more residents than they have now. But what will the gentlemen come up with? There will be a demographic substitution, no Croats as many as there are now. Therefore, I do not understand who is behind the project so that it is best to take the right of Croatians to double citizenship, thereby voting and thus exclude them from political and any other life here. So more important than those rights that the Croats receive under this Constitution and this article and it is material aid received by both the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina or anywhere that is given to them. Well, the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina don't know what's not taken anymore. And then they need to be denied the right to vote. And if I'm really intruding as a man who has dual citizenship, double citizenship, both Croatian and Bosnian and Herzegovic, and if it makes him happy in the morning, I'll take off my unaccountable parliamentary immunity, my role, my position and say thank you nicely. Well, I can't understand that there are really people in this House who have a problem with that. And at the same time, let them know, those people down in Bosnia and Herzegovina primarily if Croatia says it is a burden and a stone on her neck and should hold a referendum in Bosnia and Herzegovina among the Croats, I say 80% of Croats will declare that they will give up that right if Croatia says it bothers her. Well, that's frustrating. And that is exactly what we are not laughing at, not us down here, not you or us down here, not us down here, and we must all not be in a position to make the Croats so disheartened and to start thinking about Croatia as a country that doesn't want them, which doesn't want them in terms of concern, contact, cooperation, and at the end of the day Croatia is worth having Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or this is a people who doesn't even see it. So what do we, as Croats, as the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina expect from Croatia? Nothing special. Only the exercise of our right of equality, of constitutionality, of the same right that other nations have. No less or less. Well, that guarantees us international conventions. What do Croatians expect in Western Europe from Croatia? I can tell you. In Western Europe, at least we who come from places that every little bit, I don't even know we're leaving, coming back, coming back because we are who we are by mentality know that the Croats in Western Europe don't need any help. They stand better than the average Croat here, but what do they need? So they need it when they open the consulate door to be respected. Of the 100 people I spoke to in Muenchen, in Stuttgart, Frankfurt, or I don't know where I came across either one or perhaps one who was satisfied with the relationship of the Croatian administration in the Croatian Consulate. Well, they've had experience dealing with themselves in the last, I don't know how many 50, 60 years. Unfortunately, the creation of Croatia's state is crucially, does not change significantly. It is before the Croatian government to make changes. And from this place I ask Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic, whom I absolutely trust to change that relationship. Who is not worthy of the relationship of dignity toward his man in the world then is not worthy of being his representative. What do the Croats from the world expect from the diaspora? In the true sense of diaspora words. I think the Croatian national minorities expect about what the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina expect. No more or less. What does this diaspora famous expect? And that's where people live mostly well. And they live there mostly above the Croatian average. However, I agree with the gentleman here, someone mentioned the difficult position of individual groups of Croats in the world, for example in Argentina. And let's take a look at you. Let's look at the document that Ireland has. Ireland has a document called Ireland, Irish in the world. And it was made in 1993 and it is primarily aimed at two groups of the population. One is Irish, marginalized in the world. Irish people have worse assets in the world. So how do you help these people? How to open the doors of Ireland and these people in a certain way, let's say the pensioners of Croatia come back the next day. So is it better for the pensioner of Croatia to come to Croatia and die in Croatia and, yes, to return to his country at last than to stay abroad? And the other thing is Ireland that, I see my time running out, it's, it's centered, how do you receive those who know, can, have money? For that, something is not enough just for this institution, which I propose to Mr Letica. For this something needs a complete twist in attitude towards Croats in the world but in front of whom? Right in front of us here. We here need to recognize that whatever healthy food, clean water, healthy soil, Croatian sea and islands, the wealth of Croatia must count on and receive large benefits. He must also recognize the Croatian man in the world, young, educated, healthy as his potential. Croatia must build a strategy, a strategic document of Croatia's relations, Croats in the world where all of those, all of those individual flows that individual organisations, institutions and so on are working on, are building to, I don't know, help Croatians in the world and lead to a mutual relationship between better and understanding of Croatia and Croats in the world to focus and focus on one thing and that's a return, it's an investment in Croatia, it's a strengthening of the unity between Croatia's homeland and eviction, but in favour of who? In favour of Croatia, in favour of every Croatian man no matter where he lived. I would say for the benefit of every Croatian citizen. No party on these issues should have, I don't know, any different attitude. Well, this is in everyone's interest. There should be none of the representatives of minorities in the Croatian Parliament about this, because when I talk about this, I certainly should think about all Croatian citizens regardless of their nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33195	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33196	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with most of what my colleague said. But talking about this subject, I recognize a little bit of a broader subject. And this is how I would kind of expand to be direct, to replicate. So you can't expect a member of the Consulate in Stuttgart to be kind to you and to be serviced while your official in Croatia is arrogant, cruel. You can't expect us to recognize a poor man in Germany, Australia if we don't recognize him in Croatia. You can't expect us to recognize a young scientist in the world, a Croat who needs help if we don't help him here in Croatia. I agree with that. These topics need to be discussed, but we must put them in one broader, social context or context of the whole state policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33197	Thank you. Since it's half 2, 13 and 30, we've got three, three, four speakers left, so we're going to finish this 3, 4 to finish this agenda, and then there's going to be a vote in 15. Honorable representative Valter Poropat. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, Well, I was looking a little over there, what. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33198	Excuse me, but here's a very short one. I agree with my colleague, counselor, I really agree. However, I am convinced that Croatia, which is overindebted at the moment, is unemployable, inoperable and so forth, the Croats from the world can help. So Croats from the world, so those who have knowledge, who have money, who have experience can help. Therefore, there is no reason why Croatia should not turn around regardless of the difficult position in Croatia economically, Croatians in the world openly and deal with problems here with them in a certain way. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33199	Thank you. Honorable representative Valter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Any initiative that goes in favour of our emigrants and returnees, which protects and promotes the rights and interests of our emigrants, will always be accepted and encouraged by the IDS Club, and therefore me personally. We in Istria meet daily with problems and issues that plague emigrants especially with issues and problems of emigrants from overseas countries who do not often have the opportunity to visit their home. And those who come every year on a well-deserved vacation spend the most time on catastrian offices, in land-book offices, but the worst of all spend their hard-earned money on lawyers and their representatives to prove their property or even worse some of them to get to their housekeeper. In fact, most of our emigrants went into the world between the two world wars and after the Second Conscious War. These people, and then they were children today, are looking for the nieces of the Republic of Croatia. Why is that? A large number of these people are optantic. Their parents were to opt for citizenship, Yugoslav, or otherwise. And most of them didn't even know what they were doing it for, and all their property was then nationalized. Today, these children are people of a third age who during the Homeland War along with their families in many ways helped financially and materially their homeland. To ask ourselves today, is it possible that we cannot get a housewife in a free and independent Croatia? They just don't get it. I only mentioned an example of the Optanans, but we must not forget the Ezulas. There are many other examples. I believe that any positive shift in the legislation that will benefit our emigrants and returnees should be encouraged to support. In addition, the legislation in particular should encourage the return of our emigrants to the Homeland who expect the Republic of Croatia to become a destination for even safer investment by entering the European Union. So our better-standing emigrants will find the conditions to invest their capital in their own homeland. I'm saying this because I saw myself talking to our emigrants last fall in New York on the 45th anniversary of the Istra Sports Club and the 80th anniversary of the evicted Marines from Labinstein. Who closely monitor events in the homeland, and there is always a desire to return. The Ombudsman's institution as described in this law would certainly help our emigrants solve their problems more easily and get answers to their questions in the country. Just because the powers of the attorneys described here with the authorities of the state administration, the units of local and regional self-government and legal and physical persons in many ways would make it easier for the lives of the emigrants and returnees. Therefore, this Proposal for a Law on Ombudsmans for Croatian emigrants and returnees in first reading should be supported. But by the second reading, we need to consider and discuss the other problems that affect our emigrants and returnees so that we no longer experience the fact that our returnees to the Homeland have not moved out of the country again and have returned disappointed and some have been deceived by the examples in the near past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33201	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, it is an uncontestable intention of the Constitution to protect Croatian citizens from one side of the country and from the other part of the Croatian people living in other countries. The Constitution also separated it in two paragraphs of Article 45. Therefore, it is unnecessary to identify this. The truth is the same as the promoter says that representatives from abroad only nominally, quote, protect the interests of emigrants or parts of Croatian peoples in other countries. And in reality, they're actually bound by party discipline. I am convinced that this situation needs to be changed. And I draw up a different way to regulate the representation of Croatian citizens living abroad in the Croatian Parliament and the way their interests are protected here. However, that is, the subject of each other's law I don't think there's much to talk about today, even though the good part of the discussion was focused on that topic. But the fundamental problem, and with most of the topics that we are talking about here, is the problem of communication. So a clear definition of the concepts we're talking about. The Croatian language dictionary says that the emigrant is the one who chose another country for the place of residence. So he lived here, so he went somewhere else, and now he lives somewhere else he chooses it. All right, we can stretch that definition to both 5 and 6 and 10 knees of that same man, so on his great-grandsons, great-grandsons, chucun-grandsons and whoever. But the fundamental fact is that an emigrant or someone of his used to live in Croatia. If he has never lived in Croatia, then he is not an emigrant. The definition provided for by this bill makes a difference. The TA definition actually speaks of Croatian citizens living abroad, Croatian citizens living abroad. Then the law should be called that. So the Ombudsman for Croatian citizens staying abroad. This is how the problem is created on the basis of what we assume is not someone under some definition and some term something thought. But what I'm assuming is a professor. The flyer thought, it doesn't have to be what he is. The flyer thought, we can have 152 different assumptions of what the poet meant. So the key thing is to give precise and clear definitions. On the other hand, the Ombudsman is an institution that protects the interests of a particular vulnerable group. So unlike most people who are not at risk, this group protected by the Ombudsman is at risk. I'm a lot of logic in this case for a threat doesn't see honest speaking. The Ombudsman also acts in Croatia under Croatian law has an impact on Croatian institutions, in no way can it affect foreign institutions. Nor can it behave under foreign law, according to the law of some other states, therefore, if he is the eviction attorney, he can only protect the interests of this emigration in the Republic of Croatia. And possibly threatened rights of those emigrants that are being threatened by Croatian state authorities or someone else. As long as that definition in Article 3 does not explain that we know clearly what we are talking about, that we are not predicating to one another, that we are not going through emotional speeches because it is absolutely unnecessary in this situation. Finally, we're talking about something quite rational like the law, which is unnecessary emotions. Until that definition is fully explained to me by this bill, it sees no reason why I would accept such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33203	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33204	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'll speak to my colleague Vuljanic immediately. Sir, there's something when a man is bound by something spirit, heart and body then he can't leave his emotions out of him. There's something you're talking to emotions. And allow others their responsibility, even when that responsibility is indicated emotionally and it is human. So I'm going to keep trying to say in 10 minutes what I want to say even if my debate should be longer, and I would speak for the lives of many who are and who are still out there, who are out there and who are living outside, and my part of life isn't a little 30 years out of the country. The Croatian state is entering the country with the largest number of evicted members of the Croatian people compared to the number of inhabitants. If we count 3 generations in the European countries and it is more numerous every day, then the Croatian country is 3 countries in the world by the number of emigrants or diaspora or those who live beyond its borders. The first is Israel, the second is Ireland and the third is Croatia. I hope that often here we also identify ourselves and compare ourselves with Israel, Ireland, that something will happen in the future that we have not achieved in the full 15 years of the Croatian state, the relationship of the Croatian state, that is, the Croatian authorities towards people living outside the country because it is not just about us getting something from them. Ma, it is the duty of the Croatian state as a country of origin to take care of all people, we are not a particularity, it is done by all countries of origin. The Croats began to emigrate more in the 19th century, especially in the 20th century. We can share the eviction between the two world wars. In II. The world's most numerous emigration was from 1945 to 1990. And this time can be divided into several parts of time and there are different reasons for emigration. Economic emigration and political emigration aimed at something that happened to her, which is the emigration of the Croatian people, which has succeeded. There are records from that time, books, but it is not enough to write the truth about Croatian emigration, about the wealth of the country of origin in those books and what we all have the history of Croatian emigration is much richer than what we ourselves know, and we who have lived beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Allow me, I don't advertise the book, but it's my latest, "Australian Croats Myths and Reality", especially you, my dear friend, I hope you will support me in this. Australia's Croats in Croatia are best known based on stories and oral surrenders that came from Australia to Croatia or those who, upon their return to their homeland, speak well-intentioned about Australia and the lives of Croats in Australia who return to Croatia more rarely in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, systematic, scientificly thought-out dealing with the evicted part of the Croatian Corps is rare, whether it is Australian Croats or Croatian emigrants in South America, the United States of America, Canada, South Africa, or Western and northern Europe. Thus, unlike the Irish model, a cultural study which is an integral part of the study of Irish emigration in all its aspects and with all the specialities in the Croatian case on national history sections, for example. they have no cathedrals that study the history of Croatian emigrants. This did not happen unfortunately in Croatian studies which, under the alleged signs, treat themselves as the most Croatian study. So let's all start with this. But now I can't be with him, I can't be with him, I'm 100% convinced because he's the only mediator he's going to be and stay between the loose problems and the Croatian institutions that happens to Croatian people returnees and immigrants. And now a few answers, here's what I'm going to answer to Mr. Vuljanić, who is now speaking to you, Mr. Letica, but I practically quote you. Experience confirms that these representatives act primarily as party representatives due to the domination of party discipline and then as representatives and the rights of interest of the diaspora, which is not true. But you can't deny the historical truths, it happened yesterday, 15 years ago was the anniversary of the Croatian Parliament, the first Croatian Democratic Community Assembly quoted by Mr. Vukov himself. With the principles of the Croatian Democratic Community, the 11th principle is called for the unity of Croatia's country and evicted. You yourself know that in the time of 88 and 89, Mr Letica in Stuttgart, as I was then president of the Croatian Cultural Community, I called on all people to see that neither the future can be created nor the Croatian state without the unity of Croatia's homeland and evicted, which, thank God, has happened to all of us. We have created a Croatian state in common, it has also been defended by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Christmas Constitution since 1990, Croatia as a country of origin, is obliged to protect the rights and interests of its citizens living or staying abroad, and especially at that time every country of origin reacts when it is necessary to react without obligation to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the position and protection of the rights of its citizens, its citizens and emigrants in European and overseas countries, especially at this time towards Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and national minorities in European, Croatian national minorities in European countries. However, here it has been said several times with the existence of the Emigrant Mother as very important, Mr Letica, the Croatian Emigrant Queen, for my happiness I am president of the Management Board and we will seek to make the Croatian Emigrant Queen truly what she should have become by now. I can't do this alone, I have good board members and you will help me get this old Croatian institution to finally start playing a role towards Croatian emigration. This emigration would not have been preserved and it would not have been Croatian if we had not had a good axle and a good headquarters as the Church in Croatia played a historic role in the homeland, both the Croatian Catholic mission and beyond its borders. But today when we have a Croatian state, today we can approach these problems in another way. Here I had a chance as an opposition representative and today's representative of the position to talk about Croatian emigrants, i.e. emigrants, Croats outside the country within the framework of the electoral law. It is not the goal, and I hope that it is not the goal of those authorities until yesterday or today that Croatian people, i.e. Croatian citizens, go to the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the presidential elections. I think that every government should be aimed at connecting Croatian emigrants, Croatian people outside the country at this time with the Croatian homeland when the demographic image of Croatia is what it is. So we're running from our reality, we're running away from a demographic picture of Croatia and we can only fix that picture by returning people to their homeland, especially the second and third generations who would like to do so. However, you are, I will start now with articles from the first, I said on behalf of the board, this law is governed by the delineation and mode of work and the conditions for the appointment and resolution of lawyers for Croatian emigrants and returnees. The Ombudsman from Croatia is said to be unable to work directly for Croatian emigrants normally without the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomatic consular network spoken of by Mr Bagaric. If I spoke of it as a former consul general, I might be resented by my colleagues. But I had a recent experience, if you watched "Half Hours of Culture" protect those people who were in the creation of a diplomatic network and in the creation of a Croatian state. In terms of emigrants and immigrants, we can talk about it and it's not disputed in this law and then the concept of returnees, I don't accept this concept of returnees. Well, you yourself know that scientists and people like you go out to graduate school or go to Maxplank Institute, etc., but I don't have a problem with this. In Article 5, I have already told you that the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees has two deputies who appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal, you have certainly made a mistake, counsel for children. The article 6 was discussed by fellow Tomljanovic, who is a professional and a lawyer and spoke from another aspect, and I am speaking from my life. So I hope that my debate will also help to make what I hope will happen soon, the Croatian Government is preparing the Law on Immigration and Return, and I hope that there will be no then colored counterparts, but we will pass a single law, as all of them have countries of origin, as Ireland has, as Israel has. But, however,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33205	Your Honor!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33206	Here I'll let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33207	Your articles say something to the Rules of Procedure, something else. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33208	I asked my colleagues to allow me exactly five minutes on behalf of the club, Mr. Vice President, after the debate was concluded, I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33209	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33210	My colleagues, don't use your hands. Every topic is important to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33211	Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33212	Here is the esteemed Mrs Babić-Petricevic reminds us nicely of the history of Croatian emigration from the far 19th century to 1990. Have you not forgotten that since 1990 various evictions have occurred in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33213	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33214	Ma'am, you said that Croatian people have been moving from Croatia since 1990. I'm sorry it came to that. I am sorry that Croatia did not become a settler but still an evictive country and I do not neglect that part of the Croatian people that we as a Croatian state should take care of and return to their homeland and those who fled during the Homeland War and they are part of us whatever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33215	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33216	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think that a really important segment of national and state policy should be talked about with the emotion that's going on here, because I don't think it's allowed. Namely, talking about protecting Croatian interests or protecting the diaspora without defining the Croatian strategy and Croatian policy towards diaspora and protecting Croatian interests outside Croatia is simply not possible, so I would call on all those who agree whether it is done through the Ombudsman or through another institution, and perhaps it should, first of all, define Croatian national policy according to these problems and then we can see what our interest is in one or another plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33217	Thank you. We're done talking about this. We're not, in fact, on behalf of the HDZ club Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33218	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will not repeat what has been said several times today. Nothing is forbidden, Mr. Leko, and even emotionally speaking. Why should it be forbidden, so we are, this is a democratic state and the Croatian Parliament is a democratic parliamentary body. Let's not go back to those times that have passed on to all of us. I'll answer what my dear colleague Letica said today. Sir, I'm telling you one more time, I'd rather I could accept 100% of your bill. It will remain only, this Ombudsman would be a mediator between the Croatian people who return to their homeland or those who live beyond its borders another kind of bureaucracy, it does not mean that it will happen that your law will not come into force and I am still because of this skeptical proposal of the law and I hope you will understand me that way. However, you spoke of nostrification of diplomas and testimonies, identity of diplomas, etc. It's always since you're a university professor you know who does it. Sometimes the nostrications of the testimonies and diplomats waited three or four years, yet I as chairman of the Committee on Immigrants and MPs in the Croatian Parliament and Croats outside the country am in progress and now thank God they don't wait so much, waiting somewhere and it's too much, between three and six months. And it's too much if you wait for the day of nostrification of the testimony for so long. Then here today, several times it has been said about housewives, the Law on Croatian Citizenship. I told the board on behalf of the board that, as a representative of the opposition, I then pointed out to the Croatian authorities that we must also think about that part of the Croatian population, which is referred to in Article 16. The law on Croatian citizenship obtains Croatian citizenship and the Law on Foreigners has suppressed the Law on Citizenship which is still in force. These are also examples that I could talk about for a long time, but there is still something that is visible and what is the contribution of all of us, I will not only tell HDZ authorities but also past authorities in Croatia. Each year, the Croatian state scholarships a certain number of Croatians from small returnees and is the most from South America, with Croats from national minorities, Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is somewhere around 600 people, especially the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which I have proposed to unite these scholarships, i.e. with one ministry. However, of those 600-700 people receiving scholarships from the Croatian state, I hope they will remain at least 40% in the Croatian state. Croatian additional schools that work so I can now say with the only intensity, but it may not be satisfactory yet because I always say the country of origin must play the most important role, take care of every man to enable him to learn the Croatian language, and perhaps for a second or third generation should I or may not call it mother tongue. Here's the benefits, there's more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33219	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Slaven Letica concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33220	I'll just use it to thank everyone. Finally, Ingrid also said one very important thing by implying that people who left Croatia after "Storm" had left without being victims of ethnic cleansing. So in the end everything comes to its place and in the right way. I'd like to thank everyone, and I'm counting on your cooperation. I'll invite you individually and clubically to make a really good suggestion. I will even modify the position of representatives of the Croatian Parliament who represent both diaspora and their own parties. They're not so party disciplined, at least sometimes they get angry in the halls and cry when they have to vote past their beliefs. So I'm gonna fix that up a little bit. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33221	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33222	Mr. President. Comrade Letica, my dear friend. You know I'm proud to be a member of HDZ from the beginning of the first, I sat down first at the HDZ table. But it is not true that I work partyically as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, which I can do and are witnesses of around the world, never when a man comes to me at the Croatian Parliament or at home or calls me without asking which party you belong to. To me, the Croat is the greatest value in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33223	Okay. Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. The vote is at 3:00. Bon appetit!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-25-0.u33224	On the point of view of the draft law on the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees, the proposal is to move the vote to consult with the promoter and the government. To bring this bill's proposal into line, to delay the vote. Well, then we won't vote today. We'll vote next time. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees, first reading, Proposal for Law No 172. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law on the Ombudsman for Croatian emigrants and returnees proposed by the representative Slaven Letica will be adopted, any objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 82 votes for, 4 abstentions and 21 against, the proposed conclusion accepted.
