ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40357	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Although we are discussing the Croatian Radio Television Act, what I would like to say at first is that this is neither a debate on Croatian radio nor Croatian television, but, in my opinion, a serious debate on two topics. First on the inequality of citizens before the law introduced by this law and second on the state monopoly of transmitters and connections that charge for something they do not give and receive money regularly. Let me explain these two facts. First, this Parliament passed the Law on Croatian Radio Television which imposed the obligation on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who own radio and television receivers to pay the fee. It was probably a logic that Croatian broadcasting as a public institution, as a public service of citizens provides public service to the citizens of this country and they are obliged to pay a fee for it. It used to be a subscription, this law introduced a tax. It was unlikely that the possible public service would simply not be available to some citizens and, later on, it was not available. They cannot use it regardless of their will and quality of the technical quality of the device because transmitters and connections did not cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia with a signal from which a public television programme, public radio, is broadcast. And now we have a situation where some citizens have this service and pay taxes, others pay taxes and can't use public service, public service, but the obligation to pay stays. Are those two categories of citizens equal before the law? No, they're not. The transmitters and connections I have established are charging for the service of imitation of Croatian radio and television signals as if Croatia were covered by their signal with 98%. I'll prove it's not true. In this debate I suppose there will also be some against this law and will try to show great defenders of the independence of the Croatian Radio and Financial Independence, because this is a god-awful attack on the financial independence of Croatian broadcasting. Not one millimeter, no decibel is stronger advocates of the financial independence of Croatia's broadcasting than I am, and I assure you that by accepting this proposal, Croatian broadcasting would not lose a single kuna. As much as the tax charged by the Croatian Radio Television would be reduced by citizens, so many Croatian broadcasters have the right to reduce the payment of services to transmitters and connections. Then why am I solving or offering to solve the problem of signal in the territory of the Republic of Croatia through the Law on Croatian Radio and Tax? It's just a legal relationship and a legal relationship. The fee was introduced by law of the Parliament, the Parliament decided that the tax was collected by the Croatian Radio Television, not by the state, so citizens of the tax, the paratax, the state tax is not collected by the state but by the Croatian Radio Television, which is obliged to pay for the service of transmission of signals to transmitters and connections, while transmitters and links are the company of a limited liability company in the 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia, which is managed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which appointed the Board of Supervisors and they correspond exclusively to the Government and to no one else, and they operate in income. They are not a public institution, they are an income company and Croatian broadcasting is a public institution. So I proposed a simple solution, that those citizens in the Republic of Croatia who have television and radio apparatus and cannot receive the signal, do not have to pay the fee so long as those in charge of broadcasting signals in technical terms do not allow them to do so. I would like to remind you of the Government's view of the proposed legislation by counterpart Pavlica on a different calculation of this fee, when the Government said in a statement that it could not accept the different amount of fees per region because it is a service that is available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the same way, so everyone must pay it in the same amount. If, therefore, it is about paying a fee on a service available to all citizens on equal terms, then to those citizens where that service is not available, the state cannot impose a duty on a service that does not exist. There are four basic claims in this government's statement on this bill of law. First, it is not possible to carry out a technical quality measurement of the signal, and I have suggested that transmitters and connections that transmit the signal do so, and the government says in its opinion that this is simply not technically possible. On this agenda of this session, we have a report from the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, so please look at page 30 of their report with the title of the measurement control service, which has indicated as much and as many measurements as possible on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So they do these measurements of all frequency signals, especially those that are private concessions. So it's not true that it's not possible. Secondly, that the problem of the signal together should solve Croatian television and transmitters and connections. Why Croatia's broadcasting should address the technical issues of transmitters and connections and why Croatian broadcasting should be needed by its means, and I remind you in 2001 when transmitters and connections were separated from Croatian broadcasting at that time, 130 million kuna from the fee was invested in the technology and technology of the transmitters and connections, and after that every year Croatian broadcasting to these same transmitters and pay links 120 million kunas for signal broadcasting services. And they say that Croatia's broadcasting should further invest in transmitter technology and technology and connections by means of transmitters and connections so that they can broadcast the programme with an important note next. These same transmitters and connections provide a service to broadcast signals and other TVs. They are not required to co-finance signal reinforcements. Strengthening the Croatian radio-television signal in a technical sense, there will be a service for everyone else. Third, in order for the adoption of the law to result in an unwarranted reduction in the income of HTV. Unwarranted reduction in HTV revenue. How can it be unwarranted if a Croatian Broadcasting Programme cannot be watched or listened? But I repeat, there would be no reduction, because I am convinced that the Croatian Radio Television negotiating team is so involved and able to prove to transmitters and connections that their signal forwarding the Croatian Broadcasting Programme is not available to all citizens in the entire territory. The fourth is said to require a state budget subsidy in favour of Croatian broadcasting. No, you wouldn't. It is exclusively about the financial relations between the transmitters and the links and Croatian broadcasting. Who's to blame for this situation? In part, when the law was passed, which could not clearly have imagined that these services were not all citizens, but also the Government and this present and former ones. Why? I repeat, the transmitters and connections are 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia, and this government, headed by the Supervisory Board, appointed Mr. Kovacic, at the head of Mr. Prčić's administration, and these two men manage the resources of the transmitters and connections and correspond to the Government and the Government must know that, this state-owned company has not fulfilled the obligation to cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia by signaling public television and they must do so. Well, I guess the government has the right to order them to invest money to cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia with a signal, a public service, a public service. That's why they exist, that's why they're in 100% state property, that's why the state is sure that this public service is going. We in Parliament don't get a report from transmitters and connections, we don't know what they do, how much money they have, how much profits they make. In a technical sense, they don't give us any reports either, but they give it to the government, so I guess those reports show that something with a signal in the state isn't right. If 120 million kuna is a fee a year that HRT has to pay with transmitters and connections, coverage 100% then coverage 90% is 108 million. I have information that ten days ago something escaped when someone was arguing, so it was estimated that somewhere around 100,000 citizens, households in Croatia live in an area where the Croatian radio signal is gone. I don't know if it's true and I can't verify it at all, but I know that such people in Međimurje have thousands, thousands of households, and I don't want to do the problem I first addressed to TV and transmitters and connections, asked them and asked them to strengthen the signal that citizens along the Slovenian border who can watch only Slovenian and Austrian television, the age of the Croatian radio. I have given you the answer to the bill and allow me to quote: So, the director, the chairman of the Transmitter Management and the links reads to me: "For the quality reception of the Croatian Radiotelevision signal in such areas we recommend the installation of digital, satellite receivers and the purchase of a subscription satellite card". So, that citizens choose to buy a digital satellite receiver and just in case, in the last point of the big one, and you can buy it in one store in Zagreb, in the Quaternik square, you have phone numbers because they sell it. There's also a recommendation where it's usually bought. So if there's a chance to buy it, I've asked around. At a small price is 800 kuna, large for 300 kuna. For 300 kuna. 63 kuna is a monthly subscription, 5 monthly subscriptions are invested and all citizens of this country have a Croatian radio signal and no one should be released then. So you see that there is a technical solution that is not expensive at all. But senders and links ask for the financing of Croatian Radio Television in the second part, imagine, local community, municipalities, cities and counties should finance the acquisition of digital satellite receivers to cover Croatia's territory and 120 million kunas to Croatian television. But they have no intention of buying it and giving it to citizens and installing and giving it to use. The maximum loss of Croatian television, if such people are 10,000 in Croatia, is 7 and a half million kuna per year, the highest. Seven and a half million kuna. Is it worth it and continue to be in a situation that because of the 7 and a half million kunas that we can solve in a technical way we have situations where people who are disciplined taxpayers, who live and work in the Republic of Croatia, who have been crying out for years, give us a signal to get their cars for 700 kuna long television subscription. Cars are being held. Or do we really have to be blind and deaf over situations where an 83-year-old woman who has monthly incomes of 500 kuna by forced payment by taking away 370 kunas for a TV set in a closet 18-year-old woman, is left without a single kuna in that month? This happened two weeks ago, so we understand each other, in an area where there's no signal. The Lords of the Transmitter and the Link know whattrigov is, Grabrovnik, Vuchetinec, Wuchkovec and the rest of the area. But they effectively charged that woman a fee. We also have a situation where the old woman who was stolen from the radio got the solution that she had to volunteer for community service will go to jail because she didn't pay 340 kunas for radios, not televisions, the radio they stole from her. And all because for years, citizens and local communities have been warning that there is no signal, that people are extremely unhappy and are praying for something to be done. So if it's our wish and if it's our obligation to help these people, then let's make a commitment to that state-owned company, and transmitters and connections to or through a repeater, that's how it's done, increase the signal where it's gone, where the repeaters can't go cable or digital satellite receiver that's going to cost 300 kuna. Do we also care that these citizens do not have to view Slovenian and Austrian programmes as the only television programs they can see? Is it equally our obligation to care for both a public institution and a state-owned company as well as for the citizens we have obliged by law to pay for something they do not have, and to give the judiciary jurisdiction to charge for it and they are right. That's the law. One of my only goals is this proposal, and I couldn't do it differently because there's nothing with the Transmitters and the Parliament's connections, and there's no special law for them. There's no other coercion. One goal. By pressing on a television fee, pressure on those who collect it and pay others to try to get the signal to be on the whole territory of the Republic of Croatia. Not only where it's been known for 10 years that there are no signals, but also where the incident situations occur, say, like in Rovinj 10 days ago, where part of Rovinj was left without a signal because the repeater was removed from school. There's no new locations, so no one's got anything until someone makes a deal with someone, let's just say there's not gonna be another one. And a series of examples like that could be listed. The politics and politics thing, the party thing has nothing to do with it. It was my responsibility because it was the citizens who asked us to do something to offer one solution. There's no charge until there's no signal. And nothing else. In addition to this bill I later made a proposal for a conclusion for those for whom this Law is not acceptable because the Government thinks so, and believe me, the Government is wrong this time, then adopt the conclusion. That the government's management mechanisms and rights to transmitters and connections, make them cover the state by signaling public television and public radio. How? Let them choose the cheapest and the best way. Cheapest and most quality, and all discussions then on this topic stop. If not due to the fee, be careful, if not because of the fear of these 7 and a half million kunas, then because of our national pride and our obligation to give the citizens what, those who live by the border, what we have in Zagreb, what we can see in Čakovec or in Rijeka or in Dubrovnik or anywhere else. And this is not only present at the Slovenian border, and I could never understand what the Slovenian neighbours did to have their signal, and the Croatians did not? What kind of repeaters do they have, what kind of signals do they emit that their signal has? Much stronger than ours. And you can watch not only Slovenian state television but with three private channels. How is it that we and the Hungarian signal sometimes receive more quality in parts than in Croatian? What kind of technology are they using? And I've never heard of a Slovenian television operator coming to Međimurje for a subscription even though they know we're watching, a large part of Međimurac is watching Slovenian television because there's no other part. And there are no forced charges in favour of Slovenian television. I claim there are thousands of such households in Međimurje. You have seen that the transmitters and connections, which I did not know, have written that such a problem is even bigger in Croatia Zagorje, a densely populated area of Croatian Zagorje. It says that in response, read it. A densely populated area of Croatian Zagorje. Maybe there's more. I heard last time a representative question for the Dalmatian hinterland area where there's also no obvious signal from any TVs. It's probably the same reason. I don't know if it was just one TV you asked about or if it was a problem with other TVs, but all these signals all these TVs go through the same transmitters and connections. It's that same signal transmission system. So I ask you, if it is only 10 thousand families, this only under quotes, in Croatia, let us not close our eyes because of 7 and a half million kunas, squeeze our ears and say that we are helpless. The Parliament has mechanisms, has powers and opportunities to, if not before 2000 and then five years after these laws and five years after persistent proof that this is a serious problem that offends the pride of citizens who have to pay for what they don't now want and we can do something, and nothing else. By adopting this bill or conclusion, or by law and conclusion, it would be the most ideal solution for us to accept each other. That's why I've come to the conclusion that my goal is not to cut the money on TV, but to make the transmitters have a signal. We would probably repay these people for these few years of the problems they have had and have shown that the equality of citizens is before the law and listening to people when they warn of the problem as important as the care and concern of public services this time television and radio, that we equally appreciate the independence of financial but equally we appreciate what citizens tell us is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40358	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, a respected representative, Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40359	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed promoters, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen! Let me, on behalf of the IDS Club, get involved with NDS support in the debate on this law. At first, we can say that we will support the adoption of this law and that we cannot support the situation on the ground. Here, today we are in a bit of an absurd situation, so those to whom this law should apply because of the problems known to us, let's say that our contribution to this debate can't be traced, they don't really know what's going on. We have already heard here several concrete examples of how some of our citizens have problems on the ground because of this. We knew that Croatian broadcasters, based on the Law on HTV, are therefore taxing, that all citizens under this law are obliged to pay but we also heard that there are many of our citizens, here we are talking about some 10,000 households in the Republic of Croatia who cannot monitor the HRT program and therefore have to pay the RTV tax. Some of them don't want to do it because they think they don't have to pay for what they don't get. So the Consumers Act also says something similar, so I'll talk about it a little later. There are regrettable therefore and traces of comical situations, here I will have the same example from the Međimurje County since it is somehow the most drastic, all of this appears together in our county, that there are many cases where those people and those households who are already in a very difficult social situation and therefore are mostly nursing households who have a hard time paying for the RTV tax and who can't pay that fee because they can't. Here's one case last in Bukovec freshest. Citizens have addressed various institutions before, have warned of these problems but unfortunately nothing has helped them since they have not paid the RTV fee. They simply had their first warning and then the execution itself so that they ended up in court. Here I have an example of the hearing where it was held at the Municipal Court in Čakovec on 8 April. One of the results of that hearing was to go to the field and measure whether these residents in Bukovac can receive the programme or not. So, after that hearing on 16 May, more than 2005 came from your television commissions, according to the site, which examined the strength of the TV signal and the commission unanimously concluded that the TV signal had not been established in our area at all. So, a gentleman's claim is fully confirmed that the TV program can't be traced to us. Therefore, both this finding in both the court and that commission did not help HTV to continue with both forced and charges. Here, now we have a fresh example of a family in Bukovac. Just these days June 13th was supposed to be, in fact, held. The first court order was made. What happened? That family that did not therefore pay the subscription because it could not monitor the HTV program was seized precisely by that television that they cannot use. But what happened? There was no interest in buying that television, so there are still others to this day who remain in debt but with court proceedings. Mr. Lesar spoke of some even more drastic examples of what I think must be avoided as soon as possible and one of the ways is so that we can all adopt this law together. So the IDS Club supports the adoption of this law, i.e. Article 1 which speaks, I quote, that the owners of radio or television receivers are not obliged to pay the fee unless the technically correct TV receiver receives the HTV signal or receives it with interference. The quality of the HTV signal at the request of the receiver owner shall be determined without charge by the company authorised to transmit the signal. In our view, therefore, the most responsible in this problem are the transmitters and links that are beautifully written on their web pages "With their business, transmitters and links must ensure the performance of functions and tasks which are, in part, regulated by law, with the achievement of the highest level of satisfaction of users, business partners, employees and all stakeholders." From these examples, then, we have seen that they have not accomplished their basic task and that we can also refer to the government’s opinion on this fee as compensation for the service provided. So the same government says it is a service that is equally accessible to all citizens. So, which is the same way. This service is therefore not in one way available to all citizens, but some of these citizens are discriminated against, so they do not receive that service and they must pay for it. There, therefore, we would return to the Consumers Act that we brought to this Croatian Assembly a few months ago and can therefore connect, create an analogy between articles of these laws that talk about public services provided to consumers. Therefore, this is not the case in this case of a public undertaking but in that letter, Article 23 states: "A trader providing public service through a distribution network must enable consumers to connect to a distribution network and precisely connect the network and services under discriminatory pre-known and agreed conditions. The trader must also maintain the prescribed standards and quality of the public service provided in accordance with specific regulations." So, we can very much link it to this case of ours. We therefore think that he is injured in a certain sense and this Consumer Act and, in fact, we are, among other things, surprised at why consumer associations are. The consumer association has therefore not been more actively involved in solving this problem because the basic right of consumers has actually been violated here, so that it does not pay for the service it did not use. I hope, then, that there will be change in that sense. So, IDS and NDS support this law because of these problems, so not only in Međimurje or Istria but almost all the counties in the Republic of Croatia, we think we should come more seriously and seriously to address this problem. In what way? So the problem, in solving this problem, must also be included in the government which therefore has management rights over certain institutions. There is also a Parliament that also has its rights over certain institutions in this chain. There is Croatian radio-television. So there's special transmitters and connections. There's the Telecommunications Agency. There's the Consumers' Association and so on. So we all have to sit down and solve this problem because it works with a really principled question. The transmitters and the connections, what they have to do. What's most fundamental to them is the law to cover at least 98% of the territory. It must also be included in other institutions. Examples from other countries speak of countries themselves being involved in solving these problems because, for example, in the Republic of Slovenia, the country itself has allocated certain funds from its budget for the purchase of digital devices. satellite receivers. The same case was also in Poland so that this Law is actually a law if we accept it for really rare cases of exceptions where, in no way, all these instruments are activated only for those exceptions which really cannot follow the HRT program in any way. There is now a normal issue of digitizing our media space, but well, it's now a debate for another time. That's what's waiting for us in the near future. So for all these reasons, the IDS Club supports this Act with the support of NDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40360	Thank you very much. In the second part, the esteemed representative, Damir Cain, will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40361	Very short. Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is indeed cynical to refer to digital televisions, cards first of all because of the fact that it costs, and on the other hand these people are paying Croatia radio-television service neatly. However, another problem is that it is also present in people living at the border. These are cell signals, for example in one Buzet, I guess that's what in Bujam, Chabra for mixing the meanings of Croatian-Slovenian signals, we have to call from Croatia 00385. It picks up calls a lot for two, three, maybe more times. And it should also be dealt with in some way not only by more expensive accounts but by strengthening the signal along the border that citizens do not suffer harm. Many of us are thus damaged and this problem I said should be solved as well as the problem of the Croatian Radio-Television signal. There are some of these problems in Istria. Far more in Gorski Kotar. We heard it in Međimurje. Probably elsewhere along the borders of the Republic of Croatia against third countries and if the price is 7 and a half million kuna, it seems to me a billion 400 million kunas as far as Croatia's radio-television is taking place on an annual basis, it is not an expense for our citizens to feel damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40362	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Honored Representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40363	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs! The National Minority Club will support the amendments or additions to the Radio-Television Act, but I think this Law or at least the enforcement of this Act is calling for some more changes. It is indisputable that the HRT signal is not received equally everywhere, that some regions do not receive it at all and that part of the citizens cannot follow the HRT programme. The same is the fact that we have converted the subscription into a fee and already the possession of the radio and TV receivers is bound by the payment of this fee, and therefore they do not have to receive any service from HRT at all and I must say so because the fee is secure. If not, we would be very concerned about the satisfaction of our viewership and content and quality, and I will say here that we would also care about the share of members of national minorities who have 10% in Croatia and who, based on the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia, have the right to produce television, publish emissions intended to inform members of national minorities. Similarly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to regulate each other's rights and obligations with regard to emissions intended to inform members of national minorities by means of a contract under Article 5 on HRT. I have talked about it several times in this House and I will repeat once again that until the 1990s, Television Zagreb has broadcast minority panorama in languages, for minorities: Italians, Hungarians, Slovaks, Russian, Ukrainians, Czechs. Unfortunately, since 1990, there has been no such thing as the fact that minorities in their languages have no information at all. Since 1992, there has been a "Prizma" that has been introduced as a multinational magazine that is broadcast in 50 minutes, but to make it worse for the last six months, it has received a fluctuating time on the second programme and you just don't know when to watch it anymore. This best says that the ratings of this show from earlier 7, 8% fell to only 1 to 2% and that it has created an even greater dissatisfaction among minorities. The interventions of the National Minority Television Council to really define at least this kind of emissions intended for minorities at some appropriate time and give a permanent term, unfortunately, remain undefined. Since 2003, there has been a framework project for specialised emissions for national minorities that would go 20 minutes on the first programme once a month. They would be fully realised in minority languages with titles in Croatian. Although the project has been developed to the smallest detail since 2003, unfortunately we have no movement. I would like to remind myself here that Croatia and the signator of the Convention on the Protection of Regional Languages, where the languages I spoke here and which, in which HRT created the emissions by 1990, are precisely our protected languages that the Republic of Croatia must take great care of. If I take all the above mentioned that Prizma has a temporary character of 13 years, that it has a fluctuating time, that it does not satisfy 10% of the population, that local media accept the broadcasting of emissions in minority languages without special co-financing. That neither the HRT nor the Government respected the Law on HRT, which was passed since 2003, I believe that with the right of the members of national minorities ask their representatives to also announce that they will not pay any subscription until at least once a month, they will not have the right to hear such information in their language or at least once a month hear their own language. I therefore think that, I call for this to be discussed here too because it is not the fact that the services are not given only where the colleagues said there is no signal, where there is no Croatian programme, but I must say that Croatian broadcasting unfortunately does not, does not implement a law which is obliged to really inform and say again 10% of the audience of minority members who would like to say once more a month hear the show in their own language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40364	Thank you very much. It's on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40365	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Although the proposer, Mr Lesar, has already called for us not to talk about the Croatian Broadcasting Programme in this particular case, but rather to limit it to the real problem, which is the problem of the availability of the programme. It seems very difficult to talk about anything related to television without entering other issues as we have heard before from Mrs. Chuhnil, who probably speaks with a lot of justification and indignation and presents his point of view, a point of view that expresses the relationship to software elements as we have heard in other ways here. Perhaps my list of questions related to program orientation and the quality of the program could be abundant, but let's agree on what we're talking about here. We're not talking about it right now, and maybe we should. We're talking about one particular thing here, how to pay a fee without seeing the program at the same time, and we're putting in a whole series of confusions about what the fee is, which is the service, which is the address to say the remarks, what should be done, whether the law or something else. Unfortunately, the government has contributed in particular to this confusion by reason of its rejection of this bill. Because if it is said after all the experience the government must have because it knows how to treat the subscription as a fee. So, if the government itself uses the term that it is actually a compensation for a service that is equally available to all citizens, so they are equally obliged to pay at equal amounts to all citizens, then it is logical that Mr. Lesar and the promoters have a complete right to such an amendment of that law. But that's not it. That's not an address. This isn't a favor. This is a fee, and it represents a national consensus as it has been resolved in other European countries, which is that, in some ways, a public television fee is paid in addition to television, which in this sense gives a public programme and makes one general democratic to say to the platform that every society needs. That's why VAT is not paid on that fee. Just because it's public television. But this is where we come to say the mystical place of this whole mess. For months now, there has been an irresponsible letter from our colleague, Stazic, at the Ministry of Finance, in which a clear and decided response is sought at the threat that VAT will be charged in a fee. That answer hasn't been answered yet. The government has an opinion on which it is therefore a service, and we hear from the Prime Minister that he has announced in Dubrovnik the new HRT Act. I'm afraid that the bill promoter in this way these changes and additions rightly embittered by a whole series of elements so by swimming where a car is being seized, not possibly a TV set, where an old woman puts herself in a state of trouble that she has to pay our membership fee, she can't pay. I'm completely bitter, I share that indignation equally with the promoters. But I'm afraid by touching it this way, this way in this matter we open the door for one, and through them a stream of something else entirely. I therefore call on the legislators, respecting and supporting all their arguments, to make appropriate changes, to make these changes, and we will be very happy to support the conclusion announced by Mr Lesar, saying on behalf of the promoter, which is difficult to do because of the simple principle of the law's proposal as a tax law where the tax is treated as a service, because we cannot accept the principle, and I call on you not to accept that principle that the tax as a civilizational achievement related to European standards of public television is treated as a service. If someone's doing a favor, if someone's a merchant, because there's a law here that's bound to trade, then it's transmitters and connections, but it's not public television. So, so you don't get it wrong. We fully accept and support the motives of the legislator, but we feel that the address is guilty and that it would be better to support that, in the form of the Council's conclusion, the Government undertakes, through transmitters and links, to ensure a smooth reception of all potential viewers, i.e. everyone who pays taxes, or also to see why it cannot be settled in such a way that transmitters and links bear the costs of the digital receiver or those procedures that will allow each viewer to see it, see why it pays the fee. I call again to understand the difference between the fee and the fee for the service and, please, to reshape this intensity in this way that has already been announced in one part of the exposure from Mr Lesar which we will gladly support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40366	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luke. Please. Okay. Excuse me. Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Because of the quality of the debate and not to make a mistake, counterpart Vujic said I announced the conclusions. I hope you have received a proposal for conclusions, because they were handed over a few days ago and so I warn that they were given in writing and is precisely on the trail of the debate on the Information Committee, listening to all the arguments and warnings that were given I did go with the proposal that the Government use its management rights in transmitters and connections choose within 6 months to solve the problem of setting up a repeater, cable or buying digital receivers that will give to the use of citizens. So, not in ownership but in use and that proposal is made. However, I would not agree if it were the wrong address. Tax or no tax, tax or no VAT, this proposal has nothing to do with the payment of VAT and I have said and I repeat that the tax as a category is laid down by law cannot be calculated on this VAT. But look also at the provision of the law, look at the way it's charged, and it's really tied to a public service. It's like a citizen registers a car, pays taxes on motor vehicles and can't get on the road with a car. He's got a car, he's got to pay his taxes, register it, pay his registration, but he's not allowed on the road, and he's got a public service and a highway, not even a road. That's why Parliament and the government are the only and the right address, and who negotiates the price of service between HRT and transmitters and connections. One and the other together. On the basis of which 120 million kunas were committed by Croatian television to transmitters. The transmitter claims and links are that they covered 98% of Croatia with a signal, which is obviously not true. That is not true, so if that is not true, they must reduce that amount because they have deceived the negotiator and the other side. They didn't give the exact information and they don't give that service and they don't have the right to 120 million kuna. ... I regret my colleague Vujic that the tax is the only technical means to try to do something. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We don't have anything else. Look, we've been watching all the laws, there isn't. And why does the government accept what is... The government has accepted the logic that the problem of broadcasting signals across the Croatian territory must also be addressed by Croatian broadcasters, according to their opinion on this bill, that they must jointly resolve Croatian broadcasting and transmitters and connections. Why should Croatian Radio Television invest in signal broadcasting? If the government had only stayed on transmitters and connections and their obligation to do so, I would have even been the law withdrawn from the procedure, but the government reiterates in its opinion that this is the problem of Croatian broadcasting in this opinion on this bill. ... The transmitters and connections are moving forward, the local community has to help. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The municipalities and cities must give money to digital satellite receivers to be given to citizens. Please! It's a good thing they didn't say and the Red Cross has to jump in and help people buy it. So that's the problem. And that's why I'm afraid, so the government is not giving up on that, I guess, at the address of the transmitters and the connections, whether by the address of the board president, the chairman of the board of directors who was appointed a year ago by this government, I don't know, but the government has accepted the logic of the transmitter's transmitter and the links that they themselves should not invest in it. So that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40368	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Anton Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40369	An incorrect quote is that the address is actually correct. Mr. Lesar would have to understand right now that it must be against such a government opinion, not to use that government opinion because it is wrong to argue that something must be done at the level of the tax. Mr. Lesare here is about the government being repeated or some circles of government, because we haven't heard it so directly, they want to just liquidate this fee to turn it into a favor via VAT. And I'm asking you not to support that position, because I know that you don't support it, but in that case, don't use the arguments that the government is just explaining in the wrong way so that it doesn't lead you to this kind of conclusion. That's what I'm asking you to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40370	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Roic on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the debate on Croatian broadcasting is always very interesting and interesting. I actually support Mr Vujic's position not to spread the subject at this time but to talk about a particular problem. He is obvious, the proponent has already noticed on several occasions the different promoters have been trying to change something in the Croatian Radio Television financing system. This is certainly a very serious problem and this House as a competent authority has not dared to change the financing system of Croatian broadcasting as a general good so important for democratic processes and for everything that is its function. And this proposal, which engulfs only one segment, is the release of a television subscription for those areas that do not receive a television signal that would be so completely voluntary for every citizen in this country, but only if he does not know precisely the legal provisions that regulate that matter and that is the whole dispute between the promoters and some clubs. Because only one sentence is changed in the law: "The owner of radio or television receivers is not obliged to pay the fee unless the technically correct television receiver receives the signal of Croatian broadcasting or receives it with interference" and the Law on Croatian Broadcasting states: "The owners of radio and television receivers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to pay the fee to Croatia." By accepting this proposal of the law, we violate the Law on Croatian Radio Television and that is the central problem we are trying to point out to the promoter that the address is wrong in order to change, of course, the Law on Croatian Television and Tax in the way it is determined by this law, but in this case we are entering into the trap precisely the one which the Croatian Government is offering in its explanations, as well as the transmitters and the link that they have been very irresponsiblely placed to this problem. The only one and others don't seem to be concerned with sending confusing messages saying it's a service fee and suggesting if it's really about something that should be financially burdened on our Croatian citizens further, because VAT, if introduced on television, will pay Croatian citizens, and who else. So in this case, of course, we come to the conclusion that if someone wants to take over the state in their own hands, finance a large part of Croatia's broadcasting, we lose the basic intensity of the charge of independence of Croatian broadcasting on any owner to be completely public, transparent, independent of anyone's influences, financially very independent, and in that case, of course, the one who co-finances, who helps, who is very helpful in the Croatian broadcasting budget, will have the greatest impact. And who's that gonna be? Those who rule and those who run the Croatian state because television is in direct control of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian state and that is bad. In all the laws, we wanted it not to happen, to be a tax paratax any way you want, which will not be burdened with any other givings and in this way could be exactly what we all talk about, to introduce confusion and solve this problem, but certainly that we are all to solve this problem in one correct, quality way, first and foremost transmitters and links by decision of the Croatian Parliament must be through this conclusion to the Government to solve this problem in quality and to solve it immediately and not including Croatian citizens or regional self-government and regional administration. I'm convinced that when we put the problem this way that the transmitters and the connections will do it. I remember a lot of debates about when we took Croatian radio and radio television away from transmitters and connections. What status do you give to transmitters and connections? There he is no longer in our jurisdiction, and the Croatian Government as a majority-owned company can order and can oblige them to technically if possible, and as I hear all other countries are well covering that area, I suppose our technique is nothing weaker too. If a digital way of looking is to be introduced, that is to do so and it should be done immediately and as soon as possible and it must be carried by transmitters and connections and it must be to the benefit of all those who cannot really receive the signal. I know there's a lot of problems about the signal in southern Croatia. I know that on the southern coasts and on the southern sides of the island there is a very weak reception of Croatian radio and all other channels related to Croatian television and radio and television, and it is indeed something that needs to be addressed spotably. I'm surprised, and I'm very surprised and indignant by the attitude of the transmitter and the connection in which it approaches this problem. It is an irresponsible approach, it is an approach to concern us, citizens will manage themselves, and we have a foothold in the law by which citizens must pay the fee because it is a fee on the possession of receivers and not on the quality and service and programme. I am therefore, in principle, in the name of the club, absolutely in favour of the intensity of the promoter. I suggest, I suppose we will all accept it, but not through this indirect route, through the Law on Croatian Radio Television and via the fee, but of course through the obligation to ensure quality reception of Croatian broadcasting on almost, completely the entire territory of the Croatian state. There, hoping this conclusion will be supported, and the Croatian Peasant Party will support this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40372	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I see this initiative as an attempt to solve the problem that exists. Is the path, is the means best, I'm not sure. I'm pretty sure it's not a good tool, but there's a problem with him too, a fellow Lesar rightly warns. Part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot receive a signal from national television. It happens in Međimurje, it happens in the southern parts of the island. Who's in charge of the signal distribution? Is she in charge, is the Croatian Radio Television responsible or are the transmitters and connections responsible? There's no doubt. The transmitters and the connections are responsible. It's their job to secure the signal. They don't do it for free. They charge their users for their services. Croatian Radio Television 120 million kunas per month. And do they do their job for that 120 million kuna a month? Obviously not because they have understood since the will of this Parliament, since they were singled out into a special company, that they don't have to invest anything. While they were in the Croatian Radio Television system, Croatia's broadcasting restored all the broken repeaters, transmitters, it set them up. Later they're separated into this company, and they're doing nothing. They figured out their job wasn't their job. And make sure every citizen gets a signal. I understand Mr. Lesar, who thinks like this, but the Parliament has no authority over the Transmitters and Liaisons, but it has jurisdiction over the HRT, so now, through the debate on HRT, we're actually going to say what the problem is. And that's why I accept this conclusion that he made, and I'm going to vote for him, but I can't accept the law. Namely, in the Bill's proposal with the very text of the Law, in its explanation, a single opinion of the Government was quoted on one of the previous laws, on the Law of fellow Pavlica, where the Government, please, says that it takes the fee as a compensation for a service. And it's repeated in one way or another in the government's thinking of fees completely illegal. Not illegal, illegal. When changing the term of the subscription to a fee when adopting the last applicable HRT Act, it was then done precisely because it was unequivocally said that VAT is not payable on that tax. Why? Because such a provision is in the General Tax Code. That VAT is not paid on charges. Nevertheless, the government, i.e. the Tax Administration, sent a solution to the Croatian broadcaster in which it cut the VAT. She made a commitment to pay VAT for a period of time. I asked the head of the IRS, Mr. Youthe, a year ago to send me that solution. Mr. Mladne is not concerned about the fact that he was asked by a parliamentary representative, he is not concerned with the law on the right to the availability of information. He didn't answer me at all, and he'd have to answer to every citizen. The State Secretary in charge of overseeing and respecting the Access Act, however, the right to the availability of information does not concern the non-responsibility of Mladneo. Nor does it concern the government at all. And that's how we live and work in this country, that's how it's done here. Not to respect the laws, not to answer the MPs, to write illegal solutions, to send these solutions to Croatian Radio Television, an institution that is the founder of this Assembly. And that this facility is being blackmailed without being held accountable by anyone at all. And that's the problem. Why did the government send through its Tax Administration that solution and why it now states in its opinion that this is a service fee. That's all the VAT is for. And so did the gentleman, our colleague Hebrang, here. And why does the government do that, we wonder. For very simple reasons. If she charges VAT to Croatian broadcasters, Croatia's broadcasting goes to minus business. She can no longer do business with profit, she'll become a loser. When she becomes a loser, two possible solutions. Either send her into bankruptcy so we don't have Croatian radio or cover her losses. The bankruptcy will not be sent because national television must exist and will cover its losses. Who's gonna cover your losses? The government of budget funds. Well, then there is no more independent Croatian radio television. She's gone because without financial independence, she doesn't have software independence. Then when the director of Croatian broadcasting has to come before the government every month and knock, knock, knock, you give me the money. Then that television no longer speaks openly, it is no longer independent, it is financially subdued, it has become a slave to power. And that is why this fee is interpreted as a service fee, for no other reason, only to conquer Croatia's broadcasting. When the former government and the former parliamentary majority made such a decision to define the fee as a fee and not to charge VAT on it then she knew why. She did it not because she had a surplus in her budget, so the very light heart gave up that VAT because she didn't need it. Every government needs money. She did it for making Croatia's broadcasting independent. To free her from addiction, from herself. This is the most significant step that has been taken in this restructuring of Croatian broadcasting through laws that have been passed so far on HRT. The fact that she, by letter of the Law, has become financially independent by giving up VAT. It's a program of self-reliance. Now, the former government had the strength to do this, determination, will, to finally get HRT as a public service, in the service of citizens, not in the service of politics. Because the HRT of its draft was certainly in one party system in the service of politics, and then it was after 90. After his independence, he was. HRT's director was another HDZ man, an MP in the parliament. Publicly spoken, the government has the right to do whatever they want on television because that TV belongs to the authorities. Now, that's over. It ended the past government, by passing such a law. And now the thing wants to go back to pretense. Now he wants to conquer HRT politically again. We must raise our voices, not just here in the Parliament. I think that against it should be voiced and all the journalists on HRT because their independence, their independence, will disappear. I think the whole public has to stand up against it, that things are pulling back like this because there's no end. You know, if we agree to that, they'll come, so this government isn't the last. There will be another government coming. But if we accept the principle that any political furniture has the right to rule Croatian Radio-Television then we are doing an evil that we may not be aware of this moment but that will have long-term consequences. It is hardly possible that even if someone wanted to be hard enough to do so, they might be able to do so to the end. And you know, once released from the bottle, it's very hard to put it back in that bottle, very hard. And journalists have learned, and editors have learned to have certain programming independence through these two, three or four years ago. But let's not let the government think about it, let alone try and let the head of the tax administration send illegal solutions, not to be explained either to the Parliament or to the representatives or to the public. Because it's the only way we can protect HRT as a public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40374	Thank you very much. It's not good to suggest to the government that he doesn't think. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40375	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So, first of all, I don't know if the legislator is authorized to represent residents who can't monitor the Croatian Radio and ask for two important things on their behalf. First, that they don't pay for a TV subscription or a fee. Second, to give them short-term transmitters connections d.o.o. allows you to get a quality signal. This was first by law, the second by conclusion. Do not watch the Croatian Radio and Television program and is not some handicap. Then why are we looking at him? There's a few reasons. First, because we're irreparable optimists, so we think something's going to change clearly for the better. Secondly, because in Croatia it is a rather dominant masochistic gene so looking at the HRT program we feel better getting from the on-call HRT journalists information that we are getting worse. Third, because the number of south-nostalgics is not small and they are happy that the program reminds the one before 90. And fourth, why don't we watch it when we're already paying for it. And we're looking at rare domestic orders to buy licenses outside popular HRT shows forced commercial television. And cheerleading consistency in information emissions is the greatest feature of HRT. If HRT has good staff, we don't have to doubt it, we've heard from Mr. Cain that more than 200 HRT employees have higher salaries than ministers, and that allows them to have a TV subscription and even those few fortunate people who don't have a good signal. Paying a fee is a patriotic act, so people don't complain. They're much happier colleagues because I can't watch them, so they won't even know who's fighting so hard for them. Fellow MPs who suggested that the tv tax be paid according to the average wage per county should have demanded that transmitter and connection experts go from house to house and determine the percentage of signals. So the residents would pay the right percentage of the subscription. With a weak signal you can see possibly the first two rows of benches in the Assembly and that's inadmissible. It's also the strongest proposal for a better signal for everyone. It is true that it is not commercial to install converters that can be covered by a signal of a small number of houses, so installing digital satellite receivers is the only way out. But gentlemen of the HRT of your 200 well-paid employees should understand that people can't pay cards and taxes because they don't have a higher salary than you do. Before playing in the work of some new converter, new viewers should be taught about the country we live in because watching the authorial shows of Ladišić, Stankovic, will first of all think that we are in a new Balkan situation again, and this will confirm to them the display of a growing number of films from the former brotherly republics. The implementation of the proposed law is not impossible but it is certainly too complicated and long-term, so the law cannot be supported. Finally, the question is whether schools should pay a HRT fee for every TV receiver when they are used exclusively by video at school. And finally, which TV program would students look at in the classroom and who would make them do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40376	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct a respected colleague. Paying anything isn't a patriotic act, least of all paying for a TV fee. Paying is an act of respect for contracts and buying goods and paying has nothing to do with patriotism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40378	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Ruža Lelic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! Well, here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Croatian Radio-Television Act, which we are discussing today, where the owners of technically correct receivers would mean if these receivers did not receive a signal or receive it with interference would not be obliged to pay the fee or subscription as we will. And it is still proposed that the quality of the signal at the request of the recipient's owner without compensation and today we know that nothing is quite without compensation for the company's transmission of the signal. I think this would be really hard to implement, I'd say no. That would be one huge job. Today, people without justification are also calling for emergency medical services without suing for reception and then what would be the job of determining whether it's the result of atmospheric opportunities and after a few days we have no signal or if it's due to the antenna system of our poor home installations or a bad signal from HTV. I believe the promoter also wanted to raise this issue because there is indeed a problem with the signal interference, with the reception of the signal. It exists in our area, and it is certain to be dealt with. Of course, if it were repeatedly highlighted here that it was a question of the company of transmitters and connections, I would say, however, that it is also an interest of Croatian radio and Croatian Radio. I think they should be interested. They are public media to be available in all areas of Croatia. But I think it is an interest and state because Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio is a public medium of general interest for society and for public information, so it should certainly be interested in even distribution. And this program that you're looking at should be and should be objective and impartial. In my presentation, however, I will look a little bit at this, especially the information program that certainly deserves special attention. In Dnevnik as one of the central emissions, informative emissions, and also more visible and other informative emissions, I think that the news really should be diverse, should be objective and should provide objective information freed from various political pressures and political colour. The media, however, should respect the right to another opinion, that not every other opinion is considered freedom, the restriction of freedom of the media. We'd also have to check our sources. The information programme should then provide more positive examples. We need, in particular, more positive examples from economic life if the Dnevnik and other information emissions should be avoided by sensationalism, violence and other negative phenomena and given more attention to the needs of citizens. Sometimes central shows from night to night deal with more sensations that are irrelevant to society as a whole and for its information. Too many black chronicles. While some important news, while some of our people's prizes are less or more shyly presented or mentioned only once, that's all. So we have examples that once in health care there's corruption, patients die, if we take objective indicators, then we see that that's not the case. The second time our teachers are all thugs, the third time here's all about us is pedophilia on what, the very expression I'm terrified of. Of course, there are these cases, and they need to be punished vigorously and contained, but we need to think carefully about whether this is the right way to do it today. I cannot accept that because of the need to satisfy the information market Croatian Radio Television should deal with sensations, because it still receives 780 million from the revenues from the fees themselves. And to conclude, we would need more information emissions at the appropriate time, more emissions on the economy, positive examples in the economy from which we will learn more, which will encourage us to create. She would also say that movies are full of violence, mass murderers, psychopaths, and all of the things known to be deviant, which in many people can encourage you to identify yourself with the main heroes and do similar things. I would particularly like to refer here to the need for stronger development of local and regional networks and radio and television. These local radio and television stations are extremely important for informing citizens in their field of proper information, so where they live and work. The network could say that it is satisfying, but they are all and could say or at least most are in serious financial difficulties. We have repeatedly debated here that there is a fund to promote pluralism and diversity, that Croatian broadcasting should be set aside 3%, I don't think it's really too much, I think it's even too small of a fee, but I don't know if it's still alive. As far as I'm concerned, it's not working very well. And yet once again, I would say that Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio as a public national institution in the programme should be more strongly promoting the spirit of tolerance, of doing good, of promoting general human values, of creating a stable and positive atmosphere, of taking care of national and public interests, of providing information, of education, of enlightening but also of helping the spiritual restoration of the population, and I think that at this age of war we are very much... They do, in part, but I think they can make an even more important and positive move. [[You don't understand.]] But to return to this bill of law, on the additions of the Law on Croatian Television. This bill cannot be supported because I don't think it's really our goal for people not to pay taxes, but to watch Croatian radio and be available to them in all areas. I therefore support the proposal presented in the Government's opinion, that the problem of irregular reception of signals in Croatia is resolved through cooperation of the competent ones, in particular, by the company of the transmitters and the links, but also by the Croatian Television which must certainly be as public television and as national interested in monitoring the entire area with the support of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and that it means improving reception of signals where there is a need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40380	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations and replicas. First Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40381	It is incorrect that she told her colleague to get the impression, or to show, that television shows things very specifically about pedophilia and that everything around us is paedophile. The fact is that just thanks to television and other media, things have started to be revealed and processed, and many people don't, or there's too much of it than some would like to admit, and the fact is that it's only then that things are going to go public because otherwise this country is acting like an old sticker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40382	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40383	Inaccuracy is the alleged co-worker related to poor information and Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. The difference between Croatian Radio and Croatian Television is important. Croatian Radio has one significantly stronger level and freedom of the media and objective information and educational and all other things unlike Croatian TV as well as HINA and Croatian TV should go exactly the way Croatian Radio is going and HINA is going.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40384	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Lelic said in her presentation that citizens, especially those who monitor local TV, have the right to proper information. Probably in the context where you said that on Croatian television, or Croatian television, there is more, too much sensationalism, I would ask you to explain what it is that is the right information, because I'm afraid that with this kind of performance, with your own statement you want, I have to say that there is only one information, and that's what most of them probably have, any other information should be something quite different, in particular. Because I think any normal public television and public radio should give original information, and comment can be political or any color. So please give it here for all of us, because of the Croatian public who may be looking at this, which is the correct information. I have to admit that that term is a little vague to me, and I'm afraid it's pretty dangerous, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40386	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Mrs. Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40387	Well, I think there's something trying to say here that I didn't say at all. I said we should promote more, promote the spirit of tolerance and the general good of economic and so positive examples. We know that the public media has a strong influence on the general attitude of society and the general development of tolerance, and I am not, I have no intention at all to prescribe what objective information is and all that is expensive. But that it is safe to check the sources that are spoken of and often lightly, it can be said lightly to provide such examples without sufficient verification, without sufficient verification of the source that says it, because we know that people today are willing and kill each other so that they come to draw attention to themselves and not that in some contexts they could not express something that may not be objective or standing. I think I have the right to my opinion and that it should not be brought into a situation like we hear here on your side anyway, which is to say about informing that this is supposed to be ruled by Croatian Radio Television, it is none of our intention or that it is about some threats as we have heard about Mr. Stazic, who has already announced that this is about to be a threat and that he is trying to rule Croatian RadioTelevision if changes to the Law on Croatian RadioTelevision are being made. I just don't accept such an opinion which, our opinion is the only real opinion and the others are all criticism or unobstructional.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40388	Thank you very much. The time has just come for a 10-minute application at 11.43. It's Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we have heard today that IDS will support this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio Television. I don't even think to touch the theme of the program at all. I just want to point out that I come from the Primorian-Gorski County and I have to react because of people living in Gorski Kotara. Most citizens in Gorski Kotar do not see the Croatian Radio and we know that Gorski Kotar is also covered by the Law on the Mountain and that it is protected and that it needs help in its development. On the other hand, people in Gorski Kotar started with the help of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, as well as with their development forces where entrepreneurs engaged, i.e. they began to deal strongly with tourism. To provide their guests with the best and the best service in each room, TV receivers are installed. There's only one side of the program on those TV sets. In addition to not seeing the Croatian TV programme here there is another problem, which is the problem of subscription in rooms, or fees as we have named it after new ones, in rooms that are rented by citizens in households, whether in hotels or in pensions or apartments. Namely, whether these rooms are full or empty, whether or not you can see the program throughout the year must be paid a fee. It would be logical for me to pay the fee only when there's someone in that room. Everywhere in the world, what you get is either as a slave or as a service. However, in the Republic of Croatia, nothing is unusual that you have to pay for something you didn't get, which we also had an example of on the phone. The fee charged with owning TV receivers, which means that the fee is not paid on the programme, according to the logic HRT does not have to produce the programme at all, because citizens will have televisions for some other TV stations such as TV Nova, RTL or some local ones, and that however, HRT will be able to collect the fee by that logic. I think it's really time for this area to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40390	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Juraj Bitunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law supplementing the Croatian Radio Television Act proposed by the HNS Club, the PGS, which releases payment fees, the owners of TV receivers who have no TV signal cannot accept it for the simple reason that the proposal that lies ahead of us does not go to the core of the problem, does not go to the point of measurement and I believe that it should already be rejected in the first reading. In my assessment, it would only freeze the existing situation and de facto sanction the situation when it comes to the information isolation of certain areas, not only of Međimurje, which was spoken of by Mr Lesar, but of the Dalmatian burning, so we see here the Gorski Kotar, etc. I think that would be counterproductive, and I'm glad that in some way we can talk about this, because the area where I come from, I don't mean the city of Sinj, but the wider area of the Dalmatian mountain also has problems, maybe less with HTV but far, far more with commercial houses that tend to be national. I mean RTL, TV Nova, and I think, apart from HTV and other big TV houses, should be available to all citizens of Croatia in particular that this should be defined by concession contracts between these houses and the ministry or the competent state institutions. I think the problem itself needs to be approached systematically and started from the actual state. On the one hand, we have public services on information through HRT and thank God that it is a government obligation, it is our obligation in the Parliament that all our citizens in that part of public services be quality, that they be quality and that they have, that they are available if it is the price to be available to every individual, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia at the same price. On the other hand, we need to start with the fact that part of the information space when it comes to media in this segment, HTV, other TV houses, Croatian Radio and other radio stations, that there is a steady competition and that we need to start from the fact that there may be dangers under quotes, under allegations of danger, that some significant events will get precisely commercial television, let's take the world football championship here next year in Germany. The Croatian team has a great chance to place themselves and I can tell you that it will not matter to people where I come from which TV house will get the right to transfer from Germany when it comes to the football championship. That's not banal stuff anymore. I think if a whole village, if part of the town of Omis, if the town of Ruda, which numbers 1000 people, can't watch, follow the team, the football team of Croatia, that they exist already in my own way, by my judgment and by my persevering political problem. De facto, we're going to be in a situation where people from one part of town will go to another part of town, out of one village looking for their friends and acquaintances so that they can follow an important event. However, we must understand that sport today plays an important role when it comes to its attraction and particularity and urban environments, but not only in urban areas, but also in areas that have been in some way on the periphery of events. Therefore, through concessions and concession contracts, not only should the issue between HTV and TV transmitters or what they are already called, but it should be resolved in a quality way and relations between commercial TV houses and those giving concessions, which is the state. On the other hand, we often talk about the even development of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's politics and these governments and that we should all work on it, but when we talk about even development then it's no longer a problem of roads, water, electricity, but also these segments, and I think that Croatian citizens, every day the Croatian man has new needs and that this is the result of a general development. So the segment that we're talking about today and what's been proposed by the HNS Club, the PGS, is just one illusion, and that would just be counterproductive to solve the problem that's ahead of us. In this regard, I believe that the competent ministry and government, and we here in the Assembly, too, need to work on the availability of information to all citizens, information about our diversity. Thank God that there is also certain competition and that competition should be available to that man out there somewhere in a settlement in Međimurje or Primorski Dolac or I don't know where else, and as is available in Split or in Zagreb or in my Sinj. It is in this sense and in this direction that I believe that and I am sure that the ministry, I have asked the last time and the question of Minister Calmeti that the ministry will react after this debate and I believe that in due course, coverage of the space when it comes to TV houses would be properly met with the needs of all people, whether they live in large cities or in villages. Here, Mr. Vice President, that was my little contribution, and because of what I've said in any case, it wouldn't be good for the motion in question to go into another reading, but he's kind of a good opportunity as a good provocation to talk about this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40392	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the discussion I was encouraged not by the text of the law itself, it seems to me that this problem cannot be solved in a different way, but in the one proposed, that those responsible for this money solve the problem of the citizens. I was encouraged by the government's opinion and a sentence by my colleague, Lesar, who said this was not a political issue. Yes, it is a political issue, because the government is perfectly clear on the role of citizens there. The role of citizens is to pay and then pay once more. And after that, it doesn't really matter much. This situation has also helped to use euphemisms that we are very prone to and that we do all the time. We don't call things their real names. If the subscription is a subscription, it means that some service will be paid in advance, which I will say. In that case, the service should be delivered. The one who doesn't consume the service for that service doesn't have to pay for anything, period. If it's a tax on the fact that a man has a TV set, that he bought a TV set like we pay taxes on buying a car, taxes on having a cottage, taxes on a variety of different things. Then let's call him that. Then it's tax. No fee that is not known exactly what it means, so one authority, one government word tax interprets as a synonym for subscription. The second word tax is interpreted as a synonym for some kind of tax. So if it's about tax, let's call it that, let's give the law to Croatian radio-television that even legally behaves as a tax collector, to come into the house, take a car, put a ban on pay, to put a ban on, to retire. So he does everything a tax collector can do. Because by buying television, we still didn't sign any mandatory relationship agreements with Croatian Radio Television. But if we treat it as a tax by law, then it can be interpreted this way. What is happening now and in which the position of Croatian citizens who cannot monitor television is actually much worse than the subscription to telephones that worked much worse than anything else because they do not get any service from that house they pay for, the fee you want to call it. In the way proposed by this Law on the one hand, it could be ensured that no harm would be done to people who ate neither onion nor onion, who had nothing to do with the Croatian Radio-Television programme because they couldn't watch it, and on the other hand, Croatian radio-television and transmitters and connections in ways that were written here to deliver this service to people, so that they would also charge it when they delivered it. Because of all this, I think it would be at least fair to accept that this bill goes into another reading, so if there are some details to be changed, but in any case, it would be even fairer if the Government once and unequivocally pleaded not to Croatia's broadcasting whether it wants to keep it under control or not than to the citizens. And that citizens know clearly and loudly what they're paying for it? Are they paying the favor or are they paying the taxes on the TV they bought? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40394	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40395	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I answered relatively late for this debate just triggered by this debate and its during. I am not running away from that very important topics mentioned in this debate are really important but here I am only going to say what I wrote about corruption in healthcare, information and local TV stations, about the program content of HRT, about pedophilia, about the height of wages on Croatian radio, about former directors, about their party membership. It's really just my colleagues and my colleagues making no sense of it. We're discussing a whole other problem here. What I would like first of all to say is that it is unfortunate that the parliament of a state that has the Consumer Protection Act is even discussing this matter. We, however, are colleagues and colleagues well-remembered recently this Law has also been brought into line with the European acquis. Then we passed the Law of Mandatory Relations. And there's a thick chapter there on consumer protection. That's what it's all about and that's all it's ever been about. And it was just the HNS's intensity. Nothing else. Unfortunately, what particularly disappoints me is the government's position on this issue. It doesn't matter our law. The important thing is the problem. The government doesn't accept the law, and it doesn't offer a solution. He's not offering any solution. No proposal for a solution. What I would like to add to what Mr. Lesar said by listing areas of the Republic of Croatia which are not covered by a good signal he missed is indeed saying a significant part of the Primorje-Goran County above all Gorski Kotar. Bring your correct TV set, come to Gorski Kotar and follow or try to monitor TV and radio programs in some areas. So I would stand to protect exactly the citizens of that area and I think it would be very important to do something quickly and effectively in protecting them as a consumer. What I would disagree with Mr. Lesar, I immediately objected to him when he came into the bench, was an argument that more than 10,000 people at least live in those areas with a weak or no signal. Hostage, it's correcting me now. That's not the key. If counterpart Lesar were only one citizen in the Republic of Croatia in a worse position than the others, this Parliament would have to stand in his protection. So one man, not 10,000 families or 15 thousand families. So that's what I really disagree with, and I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to put our heads together. There's an obvious problem here. Let's not outwit ourselves. Is that a tax, is that a tax, is that a membership fee, is that a subscription? It doesn't matter. Our citizen in some areas can't get a favor or let's call it what we want for what he pays. He doesn't win, he doesn't get anything. We have to do something. Let's make this minimal effort to protect every single citizen when he's in a similar situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40396	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40397	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In this year this seems to me the fourth or fifth time we've discussed Croatian radio-television as if it were the most important topic in, so we've had reports seem diverse and there have been stretches. Mostly this means the fourth or fifth time to discuss Croatian radio-television. It's like we don't have more important and important things in society. I will express my visions, my views of, since I have been bread, I have eaten bread so far thanks to the work in the media and I know what it looks like. This way of arguing and this way of offering a solution to this problem which is actually a problem not since yesterday, it seems to me that it can be classified into a kind of trap that we all fall into together by putting a kind of pressure on Croatia's radio-television. This reminds me incredibly of a historical fact. It's known well how Bosnia fell. She fell with her paw. The Ottomans flew a little bit into Bosnia, they exhausted it, and so it was repeatedly at the end it fell into the hands of the Ottomans. I'm afraid by discussing Croatian radio and we don't do that that someday Croatian radio television falls into someone's hands, and it's not, it's not the goal. The goal is to make her public television. The goal is to make it professional television, to serve all of its citizens. Also now and earlier, he has been operating here with the concept of subscription and misunderstandings about that subscription. What's that subscription, if that subscription is a fee, let's make a deal. Is that a fee? If it's not a fee, it's probably worth some service. Let's agree that it's the price of the service, so you know how it's going to be interpreted. But if it is a charity for a quality or less quality Croatian radio-television program, my personal contribution, let's determine that it is a charity. So once we clarify what it is because if we haven't defined it again we're leaving room to put pressure on Croatia's broadcasting. The transmitters and connections are our company, it owns the state, it owns the company. If the problem exists, and it clearly exists, it can be solved by our company and said, gentlemen, why are you not solving this problem? Croatian broadcasting should also have an interest that Mr. Director Mirko Galić and TV Nova and RTL should also be interested and they should put pressure on Transmitters and links to solve this problem. If they don't solve it, these TV stations don't have a quality signal. Their messages don't come to the end of the consumer. So that's their primary interest, but it's also our interest that we don't have this problem permanently open, that we argue over it. Finally, if we accepted such a solution offered by colleagues from the HNS-PGS, we would reintroduce another inequality on this solution, and this would actually be an introduction to the disintegration of the HRT system. I think that the conclusions that colleagues have made, he might be able to support himself, but I'm afraid, since we don't have quality bases, how many households that don't have... The covered signal, the cost, would not be linked within 6 months, but would give them one reasonable time to solve this problem and say in agreement not only to the Government, or the Ministry, but also to all users who use the Sender and Connection Services to solve this problem in such a way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40398	Thank you very much. Mr. Attorney Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40399	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I believe that the Proposer of the Law has precisely located this problem and I personally consider, since all areas of the Republic of Croatia are equally valuable, so are all viewers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the same position. Of course, in this situation, the meaning of receiving the Croatian radio-television signal is the same. It doesn't matter if they're border areas or if they're in a more vulnerable position. Whether it's a subscription or a fee, colleagues and colleagues, for a viewer who doesn't receive a quality program it's the same thing. If we, with a better reception of the quality of the programme, pay one fee, one who does not have a quality programme pays the same fee, of course that viewer is suspended. Of course, there are two things that need to be distinguished here, and these are the earthly and satellite reception programs. The government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the state is a political problem just because it is of course important that the earth's programme covers the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The digital reception of the program via satellite is completely different. So we know that the satellite program is coded, that we need to have a special card if we want to watch certain programs, and that the Earth's program as such can be analogue and digital. He doesn't pay and doesn't encode. So these are two different things that we need to discuss today. Let's get back to the problem. In this case, the promoter, Mr. Lesar, in his conclusion that he mentions, he is very clear. And I think this is an interest in all of us. Personally, I think that the state interest in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia was covered by the signal of Croatian national broadcasting, whether digital or analogue, and to find the means to realise the same. Since we in Croatia have a company Transmissors and links that are registered and only registered to deal with such a business, I believe it is only important and what may be very important, to support it precisely in this sense that there are no disadvantaged viewers in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40400	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the club, 5 minutes of closing Mr. Tonci Tadic, the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40401	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have an interesting initiative from the club of representatives of HNS and PGS. But in order to discuss it, we need to see a certain sequence of events that led to this. The amendments to the Law on Croatian Radio Television, Transmitters and Links have been set aside from the Croatian Television System. We are probably the only country in the world where the national public television house has isolated transmitters and connections from its television system, and pays them the broadcasting fee increased by VAT. But in any case, the transmitters and the connections are a separate body and have nothing to do with HRT. Unfortunately, that's how the Law on Television was solved. We objected to that in HSP, but the law was passed as it is. The other problem is that according to our court, the Sender and Liaison system was supposed to be a public institution. Therefore, something that cannot be privatised but remains owned by the Republic of Croatia and is managed by the Government. Always. No privatisation. The institution could and should follow Croatian government's instructions and demands independently of costs. However, transmitters and connections have been transformed into a company, therefore, into a company and they behave in income. On the other hand, we asked that Croatian Radio Television be not an institution as it was done by this Act because if Croatia is a broadcasting institution then its employees are actually state-owned and correspond to the executive authority. If Croatian broadcasting is a company, they only respond to their director and it ensures its independence from daily policy. But she did exactly the opposite of our demands. You have, therefore, a Croatian radio television which is actually an institution where its officials are actually subsidized to the executive authority as part of a state institution. Unfortunately, that's because they're a state institution. On the other hand, you have transmitters and connections that are not an institution but are a public company, i.e. a company owned by Croatia that behaves in income. And their income, therefore, their income says that this is not worth it. So that's the first dimension of the problem. And the other dimension of the problem is that it's an entirely independent firm on HRT. Now, the thing is, this entire system of revenues from the Transmitter and the connection is based on transfers that HRT is sending to them and from TV subscription. With TV subscribed to our insistence three years ago, and then, after our bill, it entered into the final variant of the law. The TV subscription in Croatia is calculated as a fee in the same way that in the UK the subscription is treated in their state contract and the BBC State Charter as a fee, so as to be a tax on television, a dedicated tax that goes exclusively to finance public television and should be treated in the future. So, the question is, can one tax be rerouted from a house intended for another company, so that the other company that is operating with it might be able to dispose of it in the way it is thought. This is not well settled either in the HRT Act or in this bill. However, we welcome the Commissioner's intensities, we welcome the proposal's intention to resolve this issue. Whether this will be solved by a digital signal I don't know, but the fact is that no concession issued for the provision of radio-television services is intended for the concessionaires to introduce digital television tomorrow. That is why it is difficult for us to support this law, and we would support the conclusion if the deadline was something longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40402	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the IDS Club, five minutes ago, Mr. Attorney Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40403	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! I've reported back these five minutes on behalf of the club, perhaps to explain exactly what I said in my personal presentation. I will repeat once again that the legislator has precisely located the problem and I think that what I have said is that all areas of the Republic of Croatia are equally valuable and that all viewers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are also worth the same. And thus the signal of Croatian Radio-Television and this earthly signal must be such that the reception is quality in practically all parts of Beautiful Ours. It is equally valuable to the fact that, in terms of position, whether it is a border position, whether it is embossed in a bad situation, I can say an example from where I come from Labin in Rabac touristic settlement, given that it is located in the bay was a big problem for years that the signal as such comes of such quality that the viewer would simply be satisfied with the quality of the reception of that signal, whether digital or analogue. So, in any case, whether a fee or a subscription for a viewer who receives a quality program is practically the same thing, but for one who does not receive this program as a quality signal, of course, that should be taken into account. And I think we're onto something here, and we'll all agree it's just like that. Of course, here I say we need to distinguish the ground reception of the signal that goes through the transmitter and it can be an analogue and digital and satellite reception program that goes via satellite and this satellite reception program, as you know, can be seen not only on the territory of the Republic of Croatia but on the territory of practically the area that this satellite covers. Whether it is a European zone, whether it is a narrow part of Europe, that is, Central Europe or whatever. The satellite program is the reception of a digital signal via satellite with the possibility of coding, and in that way are our people who pay a subscription or a fee in those areas where there is no quality earthly program cut off because we know that via satellite program certain programs, whether they are movies, football games, sports or anything that can be coded, and therefore the viewer who pays the subscription is cut off from the one who receives a quality earthly program. So, colleagues and colleagues, back to the problem and the very proposal of this conclusion that fellow Lesar updated in a way and gave it the way he did. Personally, I think it is also a political, of course, state interest, that the entire area of the Republic of Croatia should be covered by a signal, a better quality signal from Croatia's ground radio-television and to find the means to realise the same. Trade company Senders and links owned by the Republic of Croatia that are only registered to do such jobs I believe they will do this job because they know how to do it but they must find the means to cover all areas of the Republic of Croatia and that all viewers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia have the same quality earthly reception of Croatian Radio-Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40404	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, final Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40405	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank those who have supported either the bill or just a proposal for conclusions, even though there were not many. When I handed over this bill on behalf of our club and added it to the conclusions, they warned me that because of this proposal to some or many people and resented it and resented it, I will soon see it, and that the problem will not be solved. So, to do business, a proposal no one will look forward to. I must tell you that I expected this morning after handing over the draft conclusions two days ago that the Government's representative will say we do not accept the bill as we have stated in our opinion but we accept the proposal for a conclusion. And if the government had accepted, if it had been obvious about the conclusion, the bill would have withdrawn from the procedure and the debate would have lasted three minutes. The government has not shown itself about the proposal for a conclusion and I don't know what it means, but if you return to your opinion on the bill, it is evident that the Government believes that this problem should not be solved by the Transmitters and Links themselves but also by Croatian Radio-Television. I'm afraid that's what the government is going to force Croatia's radio-television to solve the signal broadcasting problem with the transmitters and connections making further extra profits and the HRT money coming from the fee. Therefore, through the means of citizens, the company that operates will be profitablely increased in the technological sense and will charge the service to those who are not Croatian Radio-Television and will make extra profits for taxpayers' money or who pay the tax. I can't withdraw the bill or the conclusions. I insist that they will be voted on and I'm sure none of that will be accepted. I'd be the happiest man to reject all our proposals but let's just say in six months we don't have to discuss at all whether or not we have a signal anywhere. You will refuse everything, solve the problem you will not, citizens will still have to pay the fee and will not continue to watch the Croatian TV programme or listen to the Croatian Radio programme. However, I must also say that to those colleagues who want to work on editing the Croatian Radio-Television programme. I recommend that they report to the competitions or that they could run for the program council. The contest was recently opened. This is not a debate on Croatian radio television, but on citizens' obligations to pay for something and nothing else. In this country, you all said, most pardons and the government writes: "Nothing is possible to resolve what should be done in favour of the citizens." That it's the only one, not 10 or 100 grand. There's nothing we can do, we can't measure the signal, we can't set up the repeaters, we can't get every grab as far away as this one and answer covered that we have a signal. We can't make control. There's nothing we can do. The only thing we can do is forcibly charge TV fees to those who refuse to pay. We can do that. That's all we can do. So I suggested that citizens who don't have something don't have to pay and that's the wrong way. It's possible it's the wrong way. What's the right way? What's the right way? I put it the wrong way. I expected the government to offer the right path. I was expecting someone else to teach me what's the right way to solve the problem we have? You've confirmed we have a problem. My path is my fault. It's our path. Where's the right path? What, are we at a crossroads again? No traffic signs to find the right way? Or is it the right way to stay with our citizens' obligations? I expected that today those who promised pensioners to cancel the TV fee would not have to pay it. They shut up the whole debate today, and they were gone at all. What are they, with them now? That was also a legitimate promise? Citizens of fellow citizens and colleagues don't care about our finesse. To our outwitting and interpretation of the law. For our outwitting jurisdiction in solving the problems and paths we are dealing with and is it a service or is it a subscription? Is it or isn't it VAT? And does that threaten, I mean, please. We're going to jeopardize Croatia's radio-television with 7 and a half million kunas that only she should actually make up for from Transmitter and Connections. The only concern for the citizens is that by law we forced them into the obligation of 63 kunas every month without giving them anything. That we are effective in forced collection, but that we do not know how to find a way to give them a signal and a program of Croatian Radio-Television? Neither we here in the Parliament nor in the Government nor in the Croatian Radio-Television or in the Transmitters and Connections. No one has solved that problem. That's all they know and nothing else. So what's the problem? Because there was a problem coming from Međimurje? Because me and my colleague Pavlic talk about it all the time? Because the Međimurje media has been doing this for two months, investigating and proving what's really going on? That's the only reason why you can't accept this? We heard the mountain cotar, the Dalmatian Zagora, also the same problem. But as soon as something is proposed, and as an argument mentions Međimuri, it is nationally suspicious. My colleague Markovanovic contests my right and asks me if I have their power of attorney? He's not here now. Yes, I do. I got a problem and I didn't make it up. I didn't even know about him until people called me. Until I went around those areas. But I don't think he's got the power of someone to talk about this serious issue about a large number of people like he talked about today. I warn you, read the government's opinion and our proposal for a conclusion. Neither law nor conclusion will be passed. It won't be a problem solved, but I promise you in six months I'll remind you. That you said you wanted to solve the problem but not in this way. And in 6 months, and now I call on all Croatian citizens who do not have a Croatian radio-television signal to contact me in a letter to make their register, to list these people. To give that record, no one else does. And then I'll remind you that you said this time he's guilty, that you admit that the problem exists and that he will be solved, and he will not be solved. I wish we never had to discuss this matter in the House again. I wish no one would lose one kuna over it and we wouldn't have to outsmart ourselves anymore. And I would be proud to come to any area of the upper part of Međimurje, Hrvatski Zagorje, Gorsko Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, where you can watch all Croatian TV programs and listen to the programmes of all national programmes of Croatian radio. There's only one thing we need to do. A government that controls transmitters and connections gives them a warrant to take care of it. Instead of buying and investing in real estate and business spaces around the city of Zagreb at extra luxury locations. Instead of buying the ergels of the rolling stock, let them invest, invest in repeaters, cable and digital receivers we will all be satisfied. That's all it's about. Nothing else. If only 10% of the money invested in the premises and in the rolling stock in Zagreb had invested in this technology, they could have solved the problem in 2 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40406	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Jure Bithunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40407	Thank you, Mr. President. The incorrect quote of Mr. Lesar's colleague when he found out we were effective at charging something we don't give, which we do not provide by alluding in this way to the Croatian Government when it comes to a TV subscription. That's just not true. The TV subscription is known who's charging, and I'd like you, and I'd like to ask you something else. I'd like to ask you something else. When did you in the last session when the situation was far worse, did you react far worse? Never, never. Never. ... You were in the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You were in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40408	There was no correction, but there was a question. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40409	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Television. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media as a home working body, I am giving the following conclusion to the vote. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio Television proposed by the HNS-PGS Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the report of the working bodies is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the conclusion was accepted by 90 votes for, 7 abstentions and 12 against. We have another conclusion of the HNS-PGS Club which reads: the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to use management rights in the company Transmissors and Connections d.o.o. within 6 months, ensure the coverage of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia with a signal for the quality reception of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme proposed by the HNS-PGS Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the report of the working bodies. What is the view of the Government according to this proposal? Please, let's get on with it. I beg your pardon? Let's get involved first. We can vote. The result? With 52 votes for, 10 abstentions and 46 against the accepted proposed conclusion. 52 for, 10 abstentions and 46 against, not accepted. Then he wasn't accepted. Must have a third yes, the abstentions count there. ... Because that's what the secretary and the Rules of Procedure say. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40410	We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Mandatory Relations, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading of P.Z. No. 306; You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law apply in the adoption of this Law. For, does the applicant's representative wish to further explain? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, this is the topic we discussed relatively recently before the discussion of the Law on Mandatory Relations. The last amendments and additions to the Law were adopted on 4 March 2005. So that's where we were discussing the subject. In the debate, the HNS Club of the PGS gave among other amendments to, and the amendment that we proposed to abolish the provisions on life support. If you remember the law there are two possibilities, two types of restraint contracts. It's one thing for life and one thing for life. Simply put, the difference is that in the life insurance of assets, the maintenance of the assets of the maintenance recipient is prescribed to the one who gives restraint after the death of the maintenance recipient. In the event of life-restraint of assets, it shall be prescribed at the time of the conclusion of the contract. There have been numerous abuses of this institute prior to the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Relations. There have been situations where older people, powerless, are most often unable to support themselves without relatives in many cases residents of the older parts of the city of Zagreb, Split, larger towns, with larger apartments found themselves in a position to sign some sort of restraint agreement and persuaded them to sign this life support contract. A good number of these people happened the second day after the contract was signed either in a nursing home or in a psychiatric hospital and left without their complete property. For a wonderful miracle, however long the process of enrolling in our courts is, I myself have witnessed it. The apartment I bought, I didn't want to intervene, it lasted three years in a book. It was finally over, but it lasted three years. In these cases, the book is conducted from one, two, three days. After the law was passed and these amendments were rejected in the media and on television on a special show and in the printed media, new cases of an old woman who had lost 3m euros worth of property and ended up in a psychiatric hospital as a patient suffering from emotion and which is simply not true. Whoever signed the contract with her simply wanted to get rid of the concerns. Of course, he paid neatly for her what she had to do with the contract, but he got rid of that person and came up with the property. We have concluded that it is time for this issue to be discussed again, to try to make something that is not happening in Croatia. Of course, the argument can be that any law can be misused by both the best intention and the best intention of crime. But in this case, the situation is such that this kind of contract actually calls for me to say mildly for incorrect behaviour if not inhumane and non-civilisation behaviour, especially since there are other options besides this possibility of life support and other possibilities for transfer of property in various ways that are here and in the bill and said. There is a possibility that such an elderly person can be provided with restraint, and that someone who supports it has something, if it is not gender, if it does it really for the purpose of providing himself for a future. So there are other possibilities. This one's the worst. In practice, it has resulted in terrible situations, situations that are occasionally and embarrassing, which make a person uncomfortable and read in the newspaper. For all of this, we have made this proposal to amend and supplement the law in which, in the first article, we propose to delete all provisions concerning life support contracts, and in Articles 2 and 3 to strengthen the security of the provider of such restraint so that he does not find himself able to maintain an elderly person for a certain number of years, for some time and then the contract is broken rapidly, the relatives inherit the property, and he remains without anything. We've proposed two ways, two basics of insurance so that it doesn't happen. That is, the insurance provider is also absolutely certain that what he's been doing won't be for the bad guy. He finally got into a contractual relationship because he didn't want it to be for the bad guy. Although when we proposed amendments to delete this contract from the law, the argument was that it seems to me if I quote well the civilizational achievement of the Croatian judiciary or so. I don't think so. The HNS club, the PGS, thinks it's one, one of the possibilities, one of the hidden doors of robbing the powerless. Therefore, we propose such amendments and amendments to the law and ask you to think carefully before you decide to possibly be against what you will say when the next case of abuse of this contract appears in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40412	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Ms. Snježana Bagic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Since the government's session is currently under way, it seems to me that there was not enough time for the written opinion of the Government to arrive let me brief me on the oral path before it becomes aware of the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations submitted by the Club of HNS and PGS, for several essential reasons. I'll list the first one, not in order of importance, but in order why it can't be accepted is according to the government's assessment constitutional law. It is true that the Law on Mandatory Relations has been passed and published by our new law on mandatory relations, however, it is a law that has not yet entered into force. The law enters into force on 1 January 2006, with an additional exchange for the interest provision that will take place only after two years. The Constitution says that the laws enter into force on the eighth day of the publication, if the law is not otherwise laid down, and here it is said that the law enters into force on 1 January 2006 and by the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot be amended, so to enter into the text of a law that has not yet entered into force and is not applicable. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also shown itself to be an integral part of this proposal, as the Proposer said in short, the removal of those provisions of this law which are now legally prescribed and regulated in our legal system and the Institute of Life Support Contracts. In contrast to a life-restraint contract that our legal system has explicitly recognised as a legal institute that was prescribed, a life-restraint contract was not prescribed, although practice recognises it. That is, if I may say so and from the applicant's presentation, because he spoke of abuses. Abuses can't be where applying norms that haven't yet entered into force don't apply, but possible abuses if there have been, and I'm allowing possible abuses in the case of the two parties are always possible when someone abuses a contract like this and an institution like this. In practice, this contract was applied, signed, signed by the parties and recognised by the caselaw as one of the contracts that exists in our legal system. It was subject to the general rules of mandatory law not to go far to the application of the OGMZ rule. It is precisely because, in practice, it has proved that, with the life support contract, it is also often concluded in practice, concluded a life restraint contract when the Mandatory Relations Act was made, it is also proposed to prescribe this institute and because the first practice recognises it as necessary, and how it is necessary to regulate it in order to prevent, i.e. to minimise possible abuses when such a contract is concluded and signed. So that the regulation of this Treaty is also prescribed and made possible by this Law on Mandatory Relations, which will only take effect on 1 January of the following year, that the maintenance provider may seek, I apologize, the recipient may request that in his favour, if it is a property, if, on behalf of the maintenance of the property, the real burden of maintenance is established, so that the saying is recorded in the land books, it makes it visible to all those who would be potentially interested in misusing the right of the recipient of restraint in some way. That's one thing. It's a different form. Namely, in the case of a life-support contract, this was not disputed, however, in the case of a life-restraint contract, since it was only prescribed in practice that only a written form was possible if it was a property, so no stronger form of such a contract was required when we had two parties, the abstention recipient and the restraint provider, is now prescribed as already prescribed for a life-restraint contract now and for a life-restraint contract, so that this contract must be drawn up in writing by a judge of the competent court or confirmed by a public notary, i.e. an integral form of public... The act. [[You don't understand.]] Such a stronger form wishes to give such a contract stronger legal protection on the one hand and the same when it is concluded before the court and the public notary that authorised person is obliged to read the contract when drawing up that contract and warn the parties of possible... A contract like that. [[You don't understand.]] So we have this stronger protection of both sides, and in this case the emphasis is on, say, the recipient of the restraint, on all possible adverse consequences that can arise if they agree to the contractual provisions that these parties have agreed to each other. Thus, unlike the promoters and, of course, the additional caution found in the conclusion of such legal transactions, the Government considers that by prescribing and putting the institute in the Mandatory Relations Act, it is in fact reduced the possibility of reducing the situation when such an institute is actually being misused. The applicant also believes that the provisions of the life support contract can be reached in some other ways, such as the grant agreement without surrendering to the property or by intent. But it seems to me that there is one wrong thing for me to understand because the legal nature of these contracts is different. We have a donor on one side and a donor on the other side, and there is no counterproduction. In the case of a maintenance contract, whether it's life-long and life-long, we have one obligation to give and maintain something, and one who receives restraint should do something else to his maintenance donor. Therefore, even if a donation contract were to be concluded and without the right handover of things, and it would be a maintenance obligation, the contract would, in its actual effect, actually have the effect of a life support contract and the same would be the legal situation with the grant agreement. For all these reasons I have tried to expose in short and important terms, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40414	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40415	So one small correction to the incorrect assumption that until the amendment and addition of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Life Restraint Treaty was not the result of just judicial practice. He was resolved, and you later mentioned it, so please know that for the sake of the public, the legal rules of the OGZ were applied as in most cases outside of the litigation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40416	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is true that we had two contracts that regulated a similar area, we had a contract, and now we have a life-restraint which was an inheritance right even though it had the elements of mandatory rights and the general civil code is correct and we applied those rules to a life-restraint contract. It is also true that the difference between those two contracts was that there was a fact that there was a transfer of things to life for someone who was called a abstention recipient, and the life support contract was about handing over things at the moment of death. Therefore, in both cases, the leaven procedure was not actually conducted or managed, but in the case where there is no property at the time of death as regards a life-restraint contract, the leaven procedure is suspended and it is only found that the property was allocated by a life-restraint contract that once exclusively certified by the court in a strictly formal procedure or that there is a life-restraint contract, so the property already transferred to the maintenance provider has already been transferred. The second feature of these contracts is that both these contracts are double mandatory legal transactions, so there are rights and obligations, it is not a will but simply a matter of norms which are partly intruding into a mandatory system of rights and are, in part, the Institute of Heritage Rights. As for the life support contract, there has simply been a series of abuses lately, I agree with the promoter, but I do not think that this is the way to end a good institute. Finally, only mandatory legislation has principles, as well as precisely elaborated cases where the contract can be terminated, i.e. when the contract can be established in vain. The mandatory system of rights itself has institutes that try to resuscitate, that is to say, the consequences of abuse, or non-execution of contractual obligations. I think actually the wish itself may be good, I don't really doubt good, but I don't think this is a good way to go, so I suggest to the Proposer that he thinks about it. But there's one other thing that might be more important than this thing, which is the content of the life support contract, which is the question in which it should be regulated. The reasons that the State Secretary stated are, indeed, cannot be changed by a law which has not entered into force, i.e. the case with amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, but at the time I considered it and now I consider it to be more of a place in the system of inheritance, that is, the law on succession, even though it does not make it more important or more important, but in this way we have systemised that institute in that part of the right to which it applies. I mean, you know, we've often witnessed the abuse of this institute, but if you look at the first institute now, and it's the Institute of Life Support Contracts, and there's nothing better for you and there's an abuse and there's a disproportionate of what it gives, which is given by someone who supports someone, whom the law calls a abstention donor compared to the one who receives it, the recipient of abstention, and I'm not talking about now and what's been in some health institutions that didn't happen there, and all of which, of course, is not good, but I'm simply suggesting that I suggest that in one different way to approach the final bill proposal and think about these things. First, there really are problems, but it's not good to put one institute out of force. There are formal reasons why we can't even do this right now, but I suggest that he build protection mechanisms into the norm itself, and the third thing that we never really thought seriously about when we talked about a package of criminal legislation, which is the problem, how to regulate certain behaviours from such contractual relations if they are done, if it's a fraud, as a particularly criminal offence and what punishment to prescribe it. In my opinion, these are real mechanisms to maintain and improve what this institute should contain or have had to contain. I repeat, the suggestion is to prepare a different text of the law. The HSS Club will support in that case, but let's not end an institute that exists a long time ago, which is good. That there's an abuse? Listen, there's also an abuse of sales, so let's not talk about a sales contract like that right now. Of course, this is a lot, an institute that is much less used. And finally another suggestion to the government. Perhaps the government should see for itself the abuse of such contracts and consider amending the Penal Code. Maybe it's the right way to prevent what's going on, what's going on, or at least in what's least evil, to reduce the number of such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40418	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40419	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, esteemed promoters, colleagues and colleagues. I have one obligation today that is not so pleasant and in front of the Croatian Retired Retired Association in some way refer to this problem which today is thanks to the promoter on the agenda. I'm going to say first of all that we need to think very carefully about this phenomenon that's taken a lot of swings in our society. And we need to find out, or at the beginning, I need to immediately realize that age, impotence, loneliness can call emotional malnutrition or perhaps milder, lack of attention is a condition that comes with age, and the forms of every society are emerging, and ultimately, they are inevitable. On these issues, i.e. the involvement of society and institutions to combat these difficulties of people, to help them, a test is passed for a successful social but solidarity state. It's not without reason that old saying that that society that doesn't take care of children, the elderly and the powerless have no future. And another proverb that says, it's not only a sin to do something bad but it's a sin to know about human rights violations, to exploit the elderly, to manipulate emotions and the state of the elderly, to obtain material benefits and not to react. The mother of the pensioners of Croatia as an association with which we work very closely, i.e. our association partner, the Croatian party of pensioners, has two and a half years back to prevent the abuse of life support contracts that older people conclude in order to ensure the assistance they need in view of life. It is about widespread abuses in the whole of the Republic, which is available for data obtained from the field, especially after radio and television shows on the topic, broadcast in 2003, 2004 and in the first months of this year. By using the Law, the possibility of concluding a life-restraint contract for an elderly person who is generally without a family rope and who does not care about them shall conclude such a contract on the basis of which the person providing the maintenance becomes immediately after the signing of that contract and the certified signature by the public notary the owner of the assets of the abstentionee. In most cases, the motives for the conclusion of such a contract are not fair. For example, in advance, it is intended to acquire assets that are particularly significant in major cities, apartments and other properties, and that are generally not concerned by older people, or are not executed by the contract of the intended commitment. Such a contract can only be terminated by a lawsuit with a competent municipal court which has been going on for years, and the older people generally do not have the means for lawyers anymore, and free legal aid unfortunately does not exist anymore. If, after several years, such a person and gets a final ruling on the termination of the contract, the most frequently given property is no longer available, since the maintenance provider as the sole owner of that property sells or alienates it in another way, and the maintenance provider has to again file a new damage claim in order to claim compensation. So if, after years and years, he experiences a powerful and executive verdict on that basis, there is no longer any place to charge for the damage done. For such a supporter, as it is said, alienates property. It is, therefore, a deliberate and organised approach to older, powerless, and in many cases slightly senile persons who, in fear of impotence, sign such contracts, very often with unknown persons, through advertising and of course be deceived. Several hundred phone calls, memos and arrivals have been received at the Retirement Mothership Association and it can undoubtedly be concluded that they are organised criminal activities towards older and powerless persons. In this context, Marica prevents and advises Croatian pensioners to conclude only a life insurance contract and not a life insurance contract, and only with the competent court. They also advise to avoid making contracts with strangers or persons who offer such a thing through advertising in the press. They also advise that it is good and accurate to determine the obligations of the maintainer from the purchase of supplies to the purchase of the necessary clothes, to the payment of hospital costs, to the processing of money, etc. Therefore, as much detail as possible should be put into the contract in order to in some way protect the signator, i.e. the user of maintenance services. In this context, the Mother of Retired, together with the Association of Well-being, organized the Okerugli Table in the House of Retired, on 24 October of last year, in the House of Retired Maksimir, on the subject of "Protect of the Elderly in the conclusion of the Maintenance Contract". And there were representatives of numerous associations, but unfortunately without representatives of the authorities who were invited, they did not respond. And frantic data on how older people are exploited, i.e. the abuse of a life support contract is taken away from them, and they ultimately become concerned with society. Examples of medical staff training in hospitals, field patrols, real estate sales, and so the mafia, as early as possible, fall under the authority of the USKOK rather than NGOs who have elaborated the problem. It has been concluded that problems are being addressed to the public because of the number of cases, that older people are being informed, that they are recommended not to conclude such contracts. It is also concluded that it is going with the proposal to amend the legislation, i.e. to prevent such contracts from being possible because they are an ideal ground for abuses, because the assets of the abstention are immediately transferred to a maintenance provider that can alienate them, and the obligations to the abstentioned person are not executed. An example was presented where the maintenance provider had an obligation to pay 100, now 50 euros per month, but at the same time had the power of attorney in the book of the person he supported, so today he paid the money and tomorrow he raised but formally legally fulfilled his obligation. It has been concluded that a life support contract is sufficient to protect both parties, that it is concluded before a judge and that the property moves on to the maintenance provider after the death of the abstentionary and that it is given priority in any case and that such a life insurance contract is quite sufficient to regulate this area by not entering, I am not entering what my previous colleague Vresk said. I totally understand, and I would agree that maybe somewhere else that can be better regulated. I also cannot accept it and I think it is wrong to say that there is judicial protection and that therefore it is not necessary to amend the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations or to regulate it in another law, while ignoring the high ineffectiveness of the courts, their slowness and not putting it in the context of impotence, poverty and other difficult circumstances in which older persons are deceived, deceived and used in any way. Due to these cases, due to these recorded actions that are outside the legal framework, which are going to harm a number of powerless, certain number of citizens whose state, society, institutions have to worry about the Croatian Party of Retirement would and will vote for this proposal, regardless of which it is not legally possible to amend a law that has not yet entered into force and for the sake of the message, for the sake of a message that the legislator should do something in this field and this problem is resolved. But in any case, we want to send a message that we support this initiative and we are grateful to the promoter for opening this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40420	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40421	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State! The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club does not accept the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations as presented by the Proposer for the following reasons. Namely, and allow me to start with this historical presentation of the legal institute of a life support contract and listed as a legal problem or the difference of access to a questionable legal issue because we can really analyze it since the 50s of the last century and we have already had the opportunity to hear of course also in terms of the application of the OGZ or the General Civil Code. So it's a time period of a hundred years back. However, in our case-law or the application of this legal institute, it may really be important in 1957 when it is, in fact, the principle opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice that I am about to quote in relation to this court of law. Therefore, I quote: "A life-restraint contract may be concluded which a Contracting Party commits itself to the life-restraint of another Contracting Party or of a third party and the other Contracting Party undertakes to place on his property or part of it for life. It is expressed the view that the conclusion of such contracts is possible but within the limits laid down by the general rules of mandatory law, and even if such contracts do not have to be concluded in the form of an instrument certified by the judge, it is sufficient for the party's will to be demonstrated in the form required by the general rules of mandatory law. Moreover, such a variant of the life support contract was also a separate type of contract which did not fall under the provisions of the Heritage Act, with the mitigation of that position being facilitated by the following elements. First, the analogue application of those rules on succession that regulate the possibility of termination of life support contracts. Second, regarding the clause "revus extantibus" i.e. the impact of changed opportunities on contractual relations. And third, the situation relating to the succession of rights and obligations when the maintenance provider dies before the maintenance recipient. I stress that since that time or those times, there is no longer a disputed possibility of life support contracts being concluded in a variant that is not provided for by the rules of the Legacy Act. Such contracts were also referred to in practice and in literature as long-term maintenance contracts concluded under mandatory law rules or shorter life support contracts. Therefore, in practice, it is common to hold on to a life-restraint contract to which it is bound on one side, one party undertakes to hold on to the other for life and the other is immediately, so at the time of the conclusion of the contract, to hold all or part of its present assets. Such a contract therefore has a direct foothold and has neither a direct foothold nor its legal basis in the provisions of the Inheritance Act but has been possible, valid and acceptable to the rules of compulsory law if all the necessary assumptions are met for its validity. It is not required to verify the judge but that the object of the contract is, in the rule of real estate, a written form is required and that, in view of the termination of the contract of influence of the changed opportunities of the spouse's right and of the offspring of abstention, it is necessary to extend the contract after the death of the abstinence provider. Now, what situation do we have about this legal institute today? First, the Life Support Treaty is not governed by any positive legal regulation at this time or until the time of entry into force of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Secondly, its application in practice is very common and it has developed towards a specific form of mandatory and legal relations, through the development of the principle of proportionality of mandatory law and it is very important to note that its confirmation as a legal institute has also been obtained through long-standing court practice and therefore court rulings. And third, undoubtedly these specific relations deserve to be regulated for all these reasons by a special regulation and, as a matter of fact, there is no reason for this institute to be incorporated into the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to propose and explain that, following the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Relations in the public, it is precisely because of these new cases of abuse of this legal institute. It is absolutely unacceptable that such a well-developed institute is the only culprit that enables abuse and robbery and as it is stated in the explanation even to encourage, we have today had the opportunity to hear from the proponents that the law, that the Law on Mandatory Relations calls, so that the regulation calls for these or the conclusion of such legal transactions which are actually nothing but forms of criminal acts. So, absolutely in the argument, even some who spoke on behalf of the clubs about this bill, the largest part of that argument is not in the areas of mandatory law, it is not in the fields of the Law on Inheritance, so not in this legal institute, but in the spheres of the provisions of criminal law, criminal responsibility and those of these or those criminal offences. And however we remove or take a stand against this institute in this regard in relation to sanctioning illegal behaviours, it absolutely sanctions illegal behaviours. We will not be able to regulate this absolute by the Law on Mandatory Relations or the Law on Inheritance but rather by its amendments than by, of course, the adequate sanctioning of the perpetrators of criminal offences if such acts are in practice for these or those reasons, the reason comes. Furthermore, what the State Secretary has already said in her opening statement is absurd, in my opinion, that it is accessing amendments and additions to the Law without its entry into force. It is published in the National Journal 35 of this year, so since 17 March 2005, but there is an Article 1165 that states that the Law itself has been in force, so the article regulates the vaccination or that period of entry into force and applies only since 1.1 next year. This is precisely why I presented the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Mandatory Relations absolutely cannot support.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40422	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40423	Thank you. I would just like to correct my colleagues' incorrect claim when I quoted me as saying that the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Relations has led to the occurrence of such cases. No, they just kept going. Of course, the abuse of that institute was happening, but now, it's continued and now it's legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40424	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40425	Thank you, Mr. President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations by the Proposer, the Club of HNS and the PGS wishes to remove from our legal system a life-restraint contract is not, nor should it be regarded as a legal problem, as a problem of mandatory law or criminal law. He opens here, I think it's a simple moat, an appeal for the protection of the elderly and the powerless that she left and cheated on the state. Who they're abandoning and their own children. Inappropriate laws such as parents are obliged to care for their children and children are also obliged to care for their old and powerless parents. But we don't apply laws, and where will the contracts that must be law be applied between the Contracting Parties? And that's our problem. There's a lot of arguments, and maybe it's a short time to say that this won't solve the problem, but it can open it even more. The abolition of this institute that has so far not been legally regulated in our system and I think it is very well regulated throughout, such as the very good Law on Mandatory Relations itself. In addition to that provision that those interest rates will not apply when and after the law, but only after two years of being double-crossed by citizens because they will again pay that huge interest and it has been announced by the government that this will end. BUT let's go back to alone, to go back to the very specific proposal. If a life support agreement were to be abolished, these people would be even less protected and resort to other contracts. A gift agreement that doesn't commit to anything even in writing. So the basic problem here is to protect these people. For our new amendments to the law to the law to be considered, there is a will register to exist and register as long-term maintenance contracts and life support contracts. And that the Centre for Social Welfare and we see the crisis of that system, but we're preparing to reform that system, so that these contracts, in some way, will be checked by the Centre for Social Welfare, are they being executed? Because these older people, especially lately, what's been going on is the absolute breakdown of the moral system that used to be really exceptions. If someone hadn't respected a life support contract or played an older person. However, earlier situations occurred when I gave up the donor, or I was a maintenance recipient. And lately, this has really been a huge, huge problem. And the greatest danger these people are threatened by those people they trust because they're somehow closest to them. Those who often come into contact with them and who then urge them to do these contracts and do not carry out their obligation. It would be very interesting to see, we can ask individual services to see little, and which lawyers have often appeared as contractors of the contract and how many craftsmen deal with it, or how many contracts they have completed on lifetime or life support, and in particular do not carry out their obligations at all. This should, this should be carried out by our services, our bodies, social care centres each and every single area. I think that's one way to see what the problem is. Because these people, not only, they're in a particularly difficult affective state as soon as they're old, which they're abandoned I say from their own children and then resort to a contract with strangers, or people who get sweetly close to them. But the problem with the execution of the contract is a big problem. The problem of borrowing money and we'll go back then and back to the complicated and long-term work we've reintroduced. Here he is, a colleague said on behalf of the HDZ Club that it was a pure fraud. However, if we do a little bit of an analysis of application behaviour, we see that, in general, 99% not only of these but almost of all contractual relationships, there is a rejection of applications because it is a civil-legal relationship. I think it's a completely missed criminal policy or looking at that crime. And the most common scams are precisely from contractual relationships where he or she creates the immediate will not to carry out his contractual obligation or change his mind later, and then give up the thing and subsequently create this animus, or decision that there is a system that doesn't really work, and that there is little who keeps both laws and contracts, and then it's just a flood, it's already kind of a common behavior. Because today, as political power is perceived at all, it is not political power to obey the law. That's something anyone can do. Political power is perceived by the law and nothing is happening to it. So I don't think this is the way, even though it's a really good topic, perhaps a chance to talk about this thing, the law has finally solved that legal issue as much as it could and has given the possibility to provide both abstention recipients and maintenance providers through both institutes. So also through life support contracts and code, and through life support contracts. They also resolve in an adequate manner and the question of the return of that given when giving up was either consensual or it is a unilateral way of breaking up or giving up the contract and the possibility of banning the availability, i.e. the burden of abstention and the obligation of abstention to be entered in the land book, especially in this, or in the case of this long-term restraint contract. So, this is not the way to get rid of one institute, especially in cases where these institutes show themselves quite justified and in their own and even in their own way, because they care about a self-sustained person, and most often about parents or some other relatives, and in such a way they rightly exclude those heirs who are far or near, but far from the obligation to support their old and powerless. Therefore, it is also useful to contract life support so that this heir through this property can create already some of his work, put him in office or self-employment, and thus create income for himself, and also create the possibility of supporting that parent because they are not rare situations that these older and powerless parents support their children who should already support them. Therefore, the problem remains the unprotection of the weak and the powerless in our society. There shouldn't be any politics here. It's something that awaits all of us. It's something our parents already meet. Therefore, there should be no politics there. I don't think it can be touched by the Law on Mandatory Relations of Exclusion of the Institute because it is being misused, but it is certainly a fact, an alarming fact that it has been using evil to this extent lately, that is, for the last ten years, but unfortunately, almost all contracts are being misused. They're contracts for a little more respect. The state should be a good example here that it respects its contractual obligations, obligations under the collective agreement, that it does not conclude something that currently corresponds to it which it can be commended for, and tomorrow it cannot do so. It's a bad picture, then it's a bad message to the citizens who then feel that they are not obliged to assume the obligations they have committed to under the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40426	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. And distinguished representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40427	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, first of all, we heard here today, and we know that there is a constitutional obstacle to the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements that didn't even come into force. It is therefore to expect the motion to withdraw this bill for the reason that we all here have sworn that we will respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So much for the formal part. About the content part, this law was passed not four months ago in this convocation of Croatia called before this House. At that time, there was a prominent amendment of the motion to the text of the law at the time, so I think it would be that it would not sound harsh but a waste of time for this same assembly and this same House of Parliament to now go with a proposal to amend and supplement a law that did not even come into force, so it couldn't even show its effects and reach. So, this law that was passed in front of this House of the Croatian Parliament, four months ago, the Institute of Law that existed in practice, which was subject to the legal rules of the OGZ and which, even then, had an evil use. It tried precisely by installing it into the integral text of the Law on Mandatory Relations, trying to formalise and trying to prevent this evil use. I do not think that evil use should be prevented in a way that prevents honest citizens from entering or preventing certain legal relations. Evil use should be prevented by the efficiency of the judiciary, bad use should be prevented by the functioning of the rule of law, and evil use should be prevented from applying criminal and civil sanctions to those who use evil law. I repeat, this institute has existed in legal and judicial practice for years, the rules of the OGZ apply, and therefore it could not, as the proposer's explanation puts it, that after the law was passed, new cases of evil use have emerged in public. It simply cannot have anything to do with this law, because this law has not even entered into force, it will only enter into force on 1 January 2006. Therefore, he could not have any implications for what was happening in practice. We heard from a colleague who spoke on behalf of the HSU Club a series of abuses that occur and how they cheat older, perhaps ignorant people. But it doesn't mean that the institutes of all mandatory legal relations will be abolished, so that these people will not be deceived. I do, however, believe that this stipulation of the institute, the life support contract, is one step forward because it gives better protection to the recipient of the abstention and, in particular, cannot agree with the explanation of the applicant who says that this amendment and the addition of the law is particularly justified because in this same law there are other institutes, for example, a grant agreement without real surrender and a grant agreement with an injunction, and then they would cover similar needs. Exactly the proposer of that, it's actually non-sensus. Because if the promoter says that there are other institutes that are very similar, then if we cancel this one, these other institutes will allow all of these abuses that the Proposer is talking about. I think it is precisely necessary and must not be erased by the Institute of Life Support for the reason that this law has strengthened the position of the recipient of restraint. In fact, compared to the donation without real surrender and the grant with the intrusion, the position of the maintenance recipients is much stronger for the reason that he got here the possibility of enrolling a real burden of restraint in land books, which is why he can certainly protect his position. Here, for this reason, I repeat, first of all, because such a proposal is unconstitutional and we here should not even have it at the vote, and also because I don't feel that there is a need for legal institutes because some evil is used by other institutions of the rule of law to use it against those who use the right of evil and because I think that the Institute of Life Restraint should be in the Law of Obligation. I think this law should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40428	Thank you very much. And the final review of the applicant, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40429	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for your criticism, thank you for your advice, thank you for your support, for the fact that this problem exists. Maybe this isn't a good formal legal path. Give me a better one. The fact is that by using this particular institute, someone brings powerless old people into a position they didn't dream of finding. Now, we're all talking about regulations that are put together like this, that are complex, that fall under criminal law, into mandatory legislation, into hereditary legislation, and we forget who this is about. This is about people over 80 and over, and once you fool him, he no longer has a biological chance of correcting that injustice, and that happens. People cheat on this institute so there's no coming back. By the time he realizes he's been cheated, while he's doing something at all, he finds someone to advise him, while he writes a complaint, while the court takes some kind of appeal, turns it around, turns around, it's been five years, and that man is gone. His last five years have been turned into hell. That's what moved us to give this bill. If such an institute is opposed to the Constitution right now, if the law has not yet entered into force all these objections can be accepted by both the Government and the colleagues of the assembly bench. But I can't accept the fact that someone doesn't see it as a problem, that we say we need to make repressive measures better, so things will work out. Well, for God's sakes, a 50-year-old man with a good influence can't get his rights under four or five years if someone cheated on him, and a man like this who, in this way, cheats, can't practically ever get to his right. Such an institution can of course be left in law, so it will be better regulated. Our older citizens may, in another way, serve other regulations in this situation, but the fact that just using this institution is what it is now in the Law on Mandatory Relations, before that outside of it, but... precisely using this institute has led to the greatest abuse. That's why we put this in the process, and that's why we think it's a subject that we're obliged to say something about, because we have a duty here to provide protection and to those who need protection most, old and powerless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40430	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40431	Mr. President-in-Office, a respected colleague, said on two occasions: "People cheat on this institute, the Institute of Life Restraint Contracts." Well, that's just not true. People aren't wrong about this legal institute, especially if it's detailed by law. People are possibly wrong by committing a crime of fraud and everything I wanted with this correction, so to correct what is incorrectly said, not to create a false image that those who, in a formal and real sense, are against this bill of yours, have no sense, make sense of old and powerless people who need help. They need help, but Mr. Vuljanic is not the way you suggest it, because he is at the very end of the line as we had the opportunity to hear, even counter-constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-08-0.u40432	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And a break until 3:00. We have six points to vote on. We will not vote on the final proposal of the Law on civil servants so that the Government can carry out further necessary consultations with all applicants of the amendments and to reach one possible consensus. What we have left should go very quickly. Resume at 15.00 hours. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations. In accordance with the Government's opinion, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations proposed by the HNS-PGS Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall not be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The conclusion accepted by 79 votes for, 10 abstentions and 19 against. We're done voting. We are left with the Law on State Officials where the Government needs representatives, amendment applicants to try to bring their views in line, and on Tuesday we will begin a debate on the Rebalance of the State Budget for 2005 and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget with the hope that we may end the debate and vote on it if quality conditions are obtained. So, next Tuesday at 9.30 p.m.
