ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45150	Secondly, we have a proposal for a solution to the Ombudsman's children. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government. In accordance with Article 25. The Law on Child Advocates, Advocates for Children and his Deputys will be resolved before the time for which they have been appointed in the case at their own request, the second is irrelevant. The prosecutor for children resigned in writing, so the government also proposed a release of the prosecutor for children. I'm opening a debate. My colleagues, please check in in neatly. First, he's a respected representative of Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45151	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. When, just a little while, the children's defenders, Ms Ljubica Matijević-Vrsaljko, and her two deputies Gordana Bračić-Ružić and Gregori Graovac resigned on account of what they called health reasons, the IDS Club logically requested information in this room that morning, under the quotes of the "Epidemia" within the children's defendership, and to be cynical, the disease would not be extended to any other Croatian institutions. We logically held that it was the background of the Bezovic case, because only a day earlier the State Attorney's Council decided to protect Mrs. Bozica Cvetko at the place of Deputy Mr. Bajic. It all happened that Friday when Mrs. Carla del Ponte flew to Zagreb. We thought it was logical then to react, because the day after the discussion of the revision and the conversion where it came to full expression, I dare say, capital and justice, it seemed that there was another judicial scandal, which was that after we had protected large capitalists, who clearly became this thanks to the social moment, was now at the aid and protection of the pedophile from that same judiciary, especially if the church institutions were involved. But a day later, a whole series of articles came out in the paper and let me read some headlines like that. "Mrs. Cvetko argues that she is not guilty, that Bajic is under media pressure, a scandal," "Three resignations because Christmas Flower has not been replaced". Then there's Vrsajko and Flander in the War, Rapeers in the Same School With Victims, Radin for your private reasons, you're tearing down child protection. Then we move on, there's a lot of it. "Silent Joint Undertaking", "The towers began to reveal dirty laundry, that Gordana Buljan-Flander refused that function and proposed her man lawyer Ljubica Matijević-Vrsaljaljko", the proposal was founded, etc., etc. Well, then, "Trainly invited to resign." And now I don't know if there's, "Secret resignations, why she really left, the attorney's resignation for the kids and her deputies," "They threatened me with death." Ljubica Matijević-Vrsaljaljko in Nacional says "I don't want to throw bubbles, drink coffee and take a big salary for it. I'm sick and tired of the stands where nothing's being concluded, and in case something is going on and it's not being carried out.". Then we get to love triangles, etc., etc. Now, what's the background? Is the background a love triangle or is the background gentlemen MPs malfunctioning I would say system. If the love triangle is Wednesday, then it's no problem to resolve it. Send your men home and nothing to anyone. If the love triangle is Wednesday and system failure then we need to clearly help and resolve the problem of our system, it means allowing the system to function with new people, to revive this child's attorneyship even though the same could be settled in our opinion and within the public defender because it may be that the child's attorneyship was formed because of "home relations" within a political group. If that's what it's like, then the Dalmatians would say "get the baby back to the mother", bring it back to the attorney general, reform the system. If the attack on institutions is Wednesday, then these institutions should be clearly strengthened. If that's the way it should be rehabilitated Mrs. Vrsaljko. Otherwise, if we have been led astray, then all of them must indeed be sent home. It's clear there's no one here in this House who wouldn't want to help the kids. That's what we all want. We also know that in some institutions dealing with children, mostly abandoned, children with a whole series of problems from their families still have problems. We just don't have to hide it. The Bezovic case is certainly the biggest scandal that has happened "over the children" recently. Maybe Pula or what was going on in Pula is right behind it, etc. Maybe Mrs. Vrsaljko fell because someone said she was in church. However, if such bizarre reasons as part of the media states the love triangle and so on, then a resignation should indeed be accepted. All in all, the situation is at this point I dare even say comical. But the opportunities in our children's homes are serious and I want these problems solved either with Mrs. Vrsaljko or without Mrs. Vrsaljko. But for three months now, it's been quiet, time goes by, nothing changes, everything falls when our children's homes are in oblivion. But the layman I am closest to is to withdrawing this resignation and the attorney general begins or continues his work. If the resignation is accepted then I think that it should be taken under the care of the children, under the attorney general and by the police, or by the state's attorney, to ask what happened in the case of Bezovic, Pula and not to mention other homes throughout the Republic of Croatia. It's a problem and unrequited love is clearly a "secondary problem". So we suggest that we really say what is true here and if some bizarre reasons in Wednesday are to resign and the institution itself is to be clearly revived.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45152	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45153	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! First, I must protest really on these statements by Mr. Damir Cain about the so-called so-called. A triangle, a quadruple. Well, it's not at all the subject of this debate, but we have to deal with the fact that the institution of the Ombudsman for the children is finally functioning for us. I think that's what we need to talk about here, not what it says in this paper, whether there's a triangle or a quadruple, let's focus on why we're here. We know for ourselves what the situation is about child protection, we have seen the situation with the Roma. They worked in the fields. We see what the situation is every day on the road. A situation where child robbers meet and their cell phones take away. Therefore, we have far more intelligent things to discuss and insist on means that we are righting that the government hastily takes steps to appoint a new lawyer or guardian for children. We cannot allow this very important and important institute to remain this unresolved. Therefore, we expect that even at this session, I think that the government could have made an effort and put forward a proposal for a new Ombudsman for children or lawyers by taking appropriate steps to make the institution finally operational. Because we have a lot of different institutions, a variety of lawyers, and we saw for ourselves when the report comes they spend a year first of all working on how and how they will form their own office. We know for a fact that even here, such a case has been tied up with the Ombudsman for children that we have been discussing the statutes, the systemization and everything else for six months while the problems have been getting bigger and bigger. Therefore, I would also like to ask my fellow MPs further to have the government react in a hasty manner and to get a new lawyer or attorney for children and not to comment on these issues that are written in the press. Well, while you're reading the press, why don't you talk about the embezzlements in Istria, about Brijuni, this, that. Well, that's the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45154	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45155	Based on Article 214, Mr. Pero Kovacevic has nothing to appeal, there is nothing to protest but to correct the wrong allegations. 'Cause that's the only way he can do it with some pronoun in front of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45156	Comrade Cain, please sit down. I give you a warning. You're breaking your rules of procedure again in an elementary way, reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Neither did counterpart Kovacevic correct your incorrect allegations but participated in the debate. Listen, don't sit on your ears. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45157	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few sentences. I am moved by what Mr. Kovacevic said, and I will rely on what he said. But first let me find out all together that the attorney general may indeed be the most significant pillar of democracy. In this case, we have three resignations. So, what's this about? Is there an epidemic in the D.A. or is it a serious illness of our society? That's what we have to ask ourselves. I would not agree with Mr Kovacevic, that the government should have, that the government should have given new names. That's not the point. You should have seen and asked the government why she didn't come today with concrete measures to never do this again. This is a really embarrassing situation for me. At this moment when we are approaching the European Union, this will very much be valorised, and it will certainly be valorised. And therefore, we can all fall on this. I'm really asking you here to actually concentrate on the essence of the problem and the names are less important, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45158	Thank you very much. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45159	Dear Mr. President, despite being brief, clearly, I think my colleague misunderstood me. So we're interested in the institution of attorneys or counsel for children working and working and having no space but to take care of children rather than ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45160	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45161	Namely, that's what Mr. Kovacevic just said. It can't function unless it's diagnosed why and what really happened. By giving new names to the candidates, that's not the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45162	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, according to the Law of the Advocates for Children and his deputy is resolved, resolves the Croatian Assembly before the time they were appointed to theirs, one of the cases on their own request. The prosecutor resigned, and the government proposing to the prosecutor suggested that the decision be taken and relieved of its duties, and it was in the government after the parliament's decision to propose a new prosecutor under Article 23. I'm closing the debate. In turn, we have a further resolution of the deputy attorney for the children. Deputy Ombudsman for children Gordana Bračić-Ružić submitted a request for discharge under Article 25. The Law on Child's Attorney General. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Deputy Advocate for the Children George Gravas applied for discharge under Article 25. It's a law about a child's attorney. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate. My colleague Cain, this is no call for discussion, this kind of movement. That, a movement like this, I'm closely following you, to someone, to leave it for somewhere else to appear in such a way for discussion. For the debate, it appears in the manner envisaged by the Rules of Procedure and not with one gesture which.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45163	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Ombudsman for children. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 88 votes in favour, five abstentions and three against being relieved of the arraignment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45164	Resolve the deputy attorney for the children. I am voting in favour of the Decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate for the Children of Gordana Bračić-Ružić. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes for, one abstention and 4 against, the deputy prosecutor for children, Gordana Bračić-Ružic, was also resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45165	Dismissing the deputy attorney for the children. I am voting in favour of the Decision on the discharge of Deputy Ombudsman for the children of Georgi Graovac. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 89 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 4 against the discharge of the post of deputy attorney for the children of Georgia Graovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45166	Let's go to: - Proposal for a law on electronic document, first reading, P.Z. No. 344 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. First law reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I ask the representative, the representative, Mrs. Dijana Simic, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45167	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The purpose of the Law whose text today is to improve and encourage the application of electronic business in the Republic of Croatia. According to the GFK Institute, the Internet currently uses a million and 200 thousand citizens in Croatia. Since 2003, it has been a growth of 600 thousand new users. We can no longer expect the exponential growth of the number of users, growth will be somewhat more moderate in the future, but on the other hand we expect existing users to use services on the Internet increasingly advanced. This primarily refers to the intensity of the use of electronic business services. Currently in Croatia, slightly less than 20% of Internet users use some of the electronic business services. So almost 240 thousand citizens buy, pay bills, arrange travel arrangements via the Internet. According to the indicators of the IDC Croatia's analytical house, internet trade is following world trends in growth. Last year, an amount of e-commerce of 263 million US dollars was thus reached. Which is almost 86% growth compared to the previous year. Most of the transactions were made in the section of electronic trade between companies, it is almost 90%, and the rest was achieved in the classic online trade between companies and end-users, so today in Croatia you can buy almost anything. From banking services, tourist arrangements, airline tickets, computers, white techniques to building materials. The first users of electronic business in Croatia were precisely those business users who first observed the benefits of using information technology in their business, which are financial institutions and banks. They realized that the application of electronic business is an imperative of competitiveness and economic performance of business functions and services. Thus, the most successful forms of electronic business in the Republic of Croatia are on-line tourism, which accounts for 18% of the total number of Internet users, online banking with 16% of users, electronic trade with 8% of users. As we can see from the proposal. Electronic operations can also be conducted without laws, i.e. laws and other regulations, which determine whether or not someone will operate using information communication technology. However, those companies that first started using electronic business face a problem of legal uncertainty which significantly slows down the increase in the use of electronic business. The accounting law has already enabled accounting documents to be conducted in electronic form, but no verification of credibility, reliability or the right to use electronic content has been established. One of the biggest problems in this area was the organisation of keeping electronic documents, therefore, keeping an electronic archive. This is exactly what this area is all about, and this is what this bill is all about. Common feature for all emerging forms of electronic business and their increasing independence on paper media as such because documents are produced, exchanged and archived in electronic form. The problem in Croatia is that when a certain activity that is fully supported by electronic operations is wanted and completed by today's legal instrumentation, it continues to seek the current processing and transport of documents on paper, which most often means simple print, i.e. a preview of already made electronic content. In the Republic of Croatia, much has been done on the legal framework for electronic business. The Law on Electronic Signing, the Law on Electronic Trade has been passed, and in addition to these two most important laws, legal certainty of business entities and citizens further lay down the Law on Telecommunications, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and Parts of the Consumer Protection Act, the Criminal Law and the Law on the Right to Access to Information. All these laws are already in line with European Union legislation at the highest level. In the preparation of the text of this Law, of course, we were also based on foreign experiences. We have made use of existing legislation in the countries of the European Union as well as in other countries where the application of electronic business is extended. In several countries, regulation of the use of electronic documents has started, and we have found that most of the countries in which the use of electronic documents is legally regulated are united with the legal texts governing electronic trade, electronic signature, electronic transactions and the like. A draft proposal that is before you today legally regulates the use and transport of electronic documents in the Republic of Croatia, procedures relating to the production, transport, use, storage and storage of information content embedded in an electronic document using information and communication equipment. The proposed Law aims to create public confidence in the use and exchange of electronic documents through open telecommunications systems in order to fully encourage electronic business and provide services to business entities and citizens foreseen and the E-Croatian programme as one of the strategic priorities. The key category on which this Law is based is precisely the category of electronic signature. The electronic signature shall be incorporated into the electronic document and shall ensure the authenticity and validity of the electronic document. The adoption of the Electronic Document Act would create a basis for the wider use of the electronic business system and the provision of online services. And it is on business entities that more intensively accept electronic business as it has already started in the state right through the "Hurry HR" projects and an open public system of electronic land books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45168	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45169	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words on the basic objectives and basic issues which seek to be regulated by the Electronic Document Act. The economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia is now and in the foreseeable future, and we hope that this will be an ever-increasing presence on the development and application of information communication technology. Information and communication technology in the world is becoming a fundamental driver of almost all economic, social and other processes, but the Republic of Croatia still has to recognise when it comes to basic technologies and everything that is related to the technology sector of information and communication technologies lags behind. But it is a real pleasure to see that there are certain initiatives that aim to regulate the legal framework so that these processes take place as high as possible and more effectively in the future. The common feature for all emerging forms of electronic business is their growing independence on paper media and this is the problem dealing with this Law. Since documents are produced, exchanged and archived in electronic form but also in paper form. This is also the case with certain electronic business-supported activities, and wants to complete today's legal instrumentation, it continues to require the current processing of the data contained on paper. This dualism creates serious problems in practice. All of this is due to the lack of an appropriate legal instrument which regulates the use and transport of electronic documents and their relationship with paper documents and all of this results in the fact that many of the already active projects of the use of information and communication technology including electronic administrations, electronic trade, electronic land books and other activities cannot be fully completed. That's how double business appears. One in classical form. Doing business with a document on paper in the second form of electronic documentation which extremely burdens business entities not only organisationally and financially but functionally. It is therefore normal for conflicts and doubts to appear in everyday work and to ask questions to address the problems and conflicts encountered in the implementation of electronic business. Electronic operations in the economy, banking, state and local self-government, justice and other activities as well as known include a number of business processes which are fully or partly carried out by electronic means through the use of information and communication technology. Electronic business systems are difficult to develop without an adequate legal instrument to recognise and protect the use and exchange of electronic documents. It should be noted that the Republic of Croatia has already passed some important laws that regulate some important issues in the area of the application of information and communication technologies in, and business in general. The Law on Electronic Signature of January 2002, the Law on Electronic Trade in October 2003, and this initiative today is also important and valuable but remains an important issue since each law is passed, given that in a time period of several years since the delay, the issue of consistency and mutual harmonisation of these laws arises, and it is known that in many other countries the laws on electronic signature, electronic trade and electronic document have been adopted as a single package of laws in order to ensure the necessary and necessary consistency in this area. The proposed law, as it says here, will regulate a new area of action of economic operators, citizens and state institutions. This area has not been fully regulated yet, but its regulation is increasingly important due to rapid technological development. The lack of legal regulation in the first place can be a significant obstacle to the development of electronic business and, in this respect, to the general economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law regulates the use and transport of electronic documents in the Republic of Croatia. It shall arrange procedures related to the production, transport, use, storage and storage of information content embedded in an electronic document using information and communication equipment. At the same time, this Law aims to create a space for the intensive operation of an electronic business system that is becoming increasingly imperative to achieve competitiveness in world markets. The proposed Law also aims to promote and ensure the smooth and rapid technological development of electronic business through the use and exchange of electronic documents that are legally equated with classical documents on paper and that is one of the main objectives of this Act. With the effect of the Law already passed, as already stated in the electronic signature and the Law on Electronic Trade, public, smooth and legally justified use and exchange of electronic documents with confidence, which is particularly important when it comes to new technologies that are unknown to many. The widest public in the work of the electronic document institutions because without this confidence, the speed of penetration of the entire electronic business system in the Republic of Croatia could have problems not at the technological level, not at the legislative level but perhaps even at that psychological level. The advantages of e-commerce, as is known, are to a significant extent a reduction in the cost of business. The costs of transport, delays are minimised. Time saving is a very important factor in increasing speed and automation of data processing and exchange and there are possibilities of using these technologies extremely important. They can dynamic work largely across the state administration, which is not irrelevant in view of the observed slowdowns and delays in the work of the state administration, automatic monitoring of the efficiency of the work of the state administration, given everything that can be analysed in the issue of documents, documents, etc. And we can say freely that these technologies will have great pressure on the state administration to change in terms of its speed of efficiency and accountability. And in any case, this technology may be much more helpful than anything else that we are talking about today especially when it comes to accessing the European Union, reforming the state administration is one of the priorities and these new technologies can certainly help make the whole process faster, more efficient, more efficient. Reduction of errors, cheap and fast publication, search of information, reduction of counterfeiting. This is very important given the opportunities offered in the sector. Connecting data exchange between companies, offering a unique place to contact administrations and citizens who will be much more comfortable and efficient than waiting in infinitely long tails, web portals, better and more accessible services that will result in the satisfaction of Croatian citizens. Electronically based services already have a significant place as pointed out today, and in the future it will spread to tax returns, job search, services of various, social protection such as employee fees, student fees, etc. For receiving the rituals of requests for personal documents, driver's licenses, passports, vehicle registration, we hope very soon to vote by electronic means, health services, financial transactions we have already heard about. Croatia's accession to the European Union will be greatly accelerated by the use of electronic documents and all these activities that are related. Faster, simpler transmission of reports or requests, faster obtaining documents, monitoring the status of resolution requests automatically independent of the willingness, will and movement of officials etc. Large financial savings in many countries, in many sectors. Here's a little illustration. Recently, the U.S. military, so the land forces have given a report claiming that the introduction of an electronic document, an electronic signature, the implementation of all electronic transactions increases their efficiency to a significant extent and provides savings worth $1.3 billion annually. Those aren't small funds. These are very significant assets that best illustrate the possibilities that are really available to all important authorities of the state administration, normal and business and companies. It is particularly highlighted when it comes to this report reducing maintenance costs, increasing logistics efficiency, and not saying what it all means, given the operations that take place in different circumstances on the ground, where they threaten different risks for the transfer of different commands, papers and their authorisation. The area of electronic trade is particularly important and deserves more attention. However, barriers to the development of electronic trade are related to the issue of trust, are linked to all those opportunities that need to be known more, and relate to the identification of transport participants, protection insurance, transactions, etc. And it really might be better to inform people that these options of protection are far greater than they've ever been before. Therefore, only a few words about the possibilities and mechanisms of protection of the contents shown in digital form and which aim to protect against unauthorised access, protection against copying, further distribution, proof of the authenticity of the content, etc. The possibilities of encryption which are very simple, reliable, ensure privacy, secrecy, ensure data integrity, identify authenticity, authority, issue of digital certificates, issue of accounts, award of property rights, etc. Certainly when such changes occur then they have their own influence not only on the technology sector, not only on the financial, not only on the legal framework, but they have an impact on our language and I would say more than it is evident that there is a certain terminology of not only happiness in the Republic of Croatia, but also beyond. Here, I'll just illustrate one example. Article 4 where an electronic document is spoken of and it stands about like this. I'm quoting. The electronic document, logically, functionally connected may be sent, received or stored on electronic, magnetic, optical or other media. That's where the non-sensology shows itself. This is essentially a digital document because all that is common, electronic, magnetic, optical or other media is a digital record. So, the way you present the information. So it turns out that while this document is on as it says here on the electronic media it's an electronic document, when the media changes, then he'd probably pick up some other character when it's a document. So that binary record on the magnetic medium, then he should be called something different, etc. And that's the problem with the termological confusion. If you go Google and eventually type a digital signature, then you will see 3 million 200,000 references. If you write an electronic signature, you'll see a million and 400,000 references. So the digital signature is used more as a term than an electronic signature. If you type a digital economy it is something that is very popular today, which is spoken of in Croatia, then you will have almost 2 million references, but you will not have almost any reference when it comes to electronic economy. Inconsistency is shown by the following. If you type in an electronic document, you will have 2 million 200,000 references, but therefore you have an insignificant number of references to 900 000 when it comes to a digital document. Thus, termology is something that will have to be edited. Certainly, the strategy of strengthening electronic business in the Republic of Croatia deserves the attention and efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this direction are encouraging and in the future it will certainly be necessary to pay further attention to the trust in electronic business, the adjustment of regulations, technical adjustments and campaigns and promotions of all these activities. From all this, the HDZ Club supports the bill and I hope that some shortcomings in the second reading will be eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45170	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, respectable Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Office for Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club, since this in the SDP club is not generally disputed that electronic business is based on information and communication technology, creates new forms of action and that it is what simply imposes on the economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia, in this sense and supports it. As Ms. Deputy said, the Republic of Croatia still passed the Law on Electronic Signature in January 2002 and later, sometime in October 2003, the Law on Electronic Trade. It is logical, then, that this proposal for the Law on the Electronic Document is also a continuation of that regulation which has been launched since 2002. It's almost a little disputed in this law, but what happens as a preparation and a basis is disputed. And what happened in Croatia in order for this proposal to come to life in the first place, in order for this bill to be effective after adoption? Nothing. Nothing has happened, nor has it been promised that it will happen then, not in a factory sense, except what Ms. Deputys said in her final words that she expects the economic operators to also apply this law to facilitate their business communication, such as the "Swift Project".". It's just the opposite. That economic operators are already very much doing business in this way, and that it is simply impossible for a citizen to do business alone, but also to contact in a way that would prescribe and facilitate this law. And not only that, but nothing is going to happen in that sense, because here's the government saying that the application of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. So how will this law apply? And what was actually most interesting is exactly what Mrs. Deputy noted, the realization of the "Quick" project. And what do we have in this fast project? Can a citizen get some correct electronic route? He can't. Will they get it after this? He can't. The state has not networked its registers at all, nor is it possible for the extract from that register to serve in legal traffic. Therefore, the basic observation is that no material support was created to bring this law to life. Of course, it is good that we go to the changes and that a wise proposing and an even wiser legislator simply looks at them and that we already have a legal solution to the situation. However, it is obvious that this is not the case. These praises worth such a propaganda project "Hurry" we have a situation only that an economic operator, I will repeat here again, now on behalf of the SDP club, which is inadmissible which has remained in debt and this same state and workers can start their own company. These are the only benefits of this "quick" project. The truth is, to just remind ourselves, we had recently in the 4th month of amending the Financial Agency Act, about FINA where it was allowed exactly to make a whole series of jobs, even in this way, that agency for citizens. The government was obliged to make contact within a month, all of which were in contact because that change was promoted in the affirmation of the "Hurry" project, so the same government was in this law, which was thus required to adopt within a month a regulation that would regulate the affairs that would be done for the citizens by FINA. It's been 5 months and after 5 months, or exactly 4 months and 28 days, the government has passed the regulation. And in that regulation, it says it will create a technological preparation within eight months so that FINA can react in this way. So it's obvious that this law, once again, is a dead letter on paper. In addition, it creates certain confusions. We see that the government is preparing a whole series of amendments to the law, especially procedural laws, to allow faster communication to reduce costs, because they are unique to the state, so that they can communicate in this way. And they are preparing to amend certain laws so that the state can communicate in this way. However, Article 2 of this Act states that the electronic document has the same legal force as the document on paper, if its use and traffic are implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Act, i.e. in Article 1(2), unless the explicit use of the document on paper is specifically required in another law. I think that should change. We at the SDP club hold that this law should be a roof law that would be in the same position, if not the superior, but certainly put the document in the original, i.e. a correction in writing together with this electronic form. 'Cause we're going to have another one-off situation, and there's going to be a big problem. At the end of the day, what the economic operators are already practicing can come at risk right into question. Therefore, it would be wise to abandon Article 2(2). And what I think is also important in this whole process for the government to start, we don't know how long it's been, how far the government has arrived with this job so that not only the registers can be transformed into electronic form, but the whole system can be networked. And then it has meaning and an electronic document, because in the current situation it is not possible for a citizen to exercise this right that comes from the law because such support has not yet been achieved, or systems are not networked. It is also a serious remark to the very title of the law entitled "The Proposed Law on the Electronic Document". We everywhere in, the standard language does not know, the standard Croatian language does not know the term "document", but "correction". However, all our other laws contain the very concept of an I.D., not documents. So so also the Penal Code which speaks about the counterfeiting of documents, and where I don't even consider it necessary to go to specific amendments because, of course, the standards that meant yesterday don't mean today and that it was covered in such a way also enjoyed criminal protection and possible counterfeiting or misapplication of the electronic document, i.e. electronic documents that should stand in the spirit of Croatian language and our legal term. The SDP Club, as I pointed out earlier, will support this Bill proposal, but asks the Government to do exactly what is necessary, which is to enable the application and application of this Bill proposal, which will certainly, if achieved, facilitate and save a significant part of the budget precisely in the communication that the individual ministries generally have with citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45172	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45173	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Antičević did not know why, for the first time, she pointed out the incorrect allegations when it came to the institute quickly or at the beginning as we called for when the FINA law was passed and the amendments to the law "one stop shop" that it was an unnecessary institute, that it serves only people who have deceived the state that individuals cannot achieve anything by the basis of this institute etc. However, I must say that this is completely incorrect, because when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Agency Law was adopted, it was clearly said that at this time the institute was "one stop shop" later renamed to a rapid, something that would fully live up to and deliver results to individuals in 2007. To do that, we need to take a few steps. One of these steps is in any case this law that we are talking about today, because it could be used not to travel more paper than to do it by e-mail and e-mail, certainly being one of the steps and this Law on the Electronic Document.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45174	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45175	My colleague was injured by Rule 209 because he was essentially replicating me. He wasn't correcting my some kind of incorrect claim because I've correctly established what the government was obliged to do by amending the Financial Agency Act within a month has adopted the regulation after almost 5 months and in that regulation even please look at it, published sometime a few days ago so you'll be able to, a few numbers... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45176	Now you'd say that to the president a few times. Now I'm supposed to investigate what's true and what's incorrect. It's not about the violation of Article 209. ... On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Ledinski. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45177	Dear Mr. Vice President, honoring the Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say on behalf of the HSS Club that we will support this proposal of the Electronic Document Act, which is in the first reading, first of all because we urgently need this law because today in the 21st century the situation in that segment is quite unregulated. I'd like to try to show it this plastic now, what it looks like today's situation in that part. We have on one side the papers we sign today, all of which we use, and on the other hand we have computer documents that we can carry with us, and in that part often times we don't know whether that document is valid or not, which we have in electronic form. I'm glad that today our young students are with us, I believe from some of the schools, which can confirm that and which are certainly far more used by electronic documents than we are by ourselves who are a little older. When we look at the state of certain dams, then we can see that it's quite different. We have a branch in banking, which is certainly one of the more developed, and we have heard from the deputy that let's say in tourism that 18% of electronic documents, trade and other branches are used, which is certainly going to be more and more in the future and that we will be able to safely use it. But the question arises, how to obtain certain documentation that is valid. Unfortunately today, especially in public services, we must say that it is practically impossible to get a certain valid document that you can use in such a way that you can get it through the Internet or certain websites. Regardless of all the wishes of recent years, all the governments to improve it, unfortunately it still remained on, I would say, at the beginning. In that part, I'm sure it's the basic point, so I'll start with the document, if we can sign them electronically, and if that signature is valid. How to carry out that verification of the signature and how we know whether these signatures are valid and whether that document is valid in some type of correspondence, documentation between the two companies and who, for example, will. be able to claim that the signature of a director on one document is valid when he sends it to another company. Unfortunately, today is not yet that is not the case, so it is only in writing that it is possible to verify today that this document is valid. It also raises the question of who are those institutions that should verify those signatures, which is the institution that would have the certificate to do so. It's fine with us. Outside the world we have different institutions dealing with, let's say our banks are known to use different foreign institutions, verifications, not these domestic ones that we have here. I am here in conversation with my IT professionals in the company to find out, they think it would be good if we had an impartial public institution in Croatia that would be the one doing those certificates, not if it were FINA as the only one for now registered for it. This institution should be impartial and should work at the level of the entire state and should allow it to be done in a very short time, that it can be valid and that the person receiving that document can verify that it is a valid document very simple and clear. In that part, we feel it is necessary to securely allocate some of the funds for this, and I do not think there is any claim that the implementation of this law does not require any funds. Also, given that this is a very extensive problem, I think that today it is not possible to regulate on pages 8, that we will have to have a lot of sublegal acts that will regulate certain things and that we will simply have to allocate more significant resources that will be needed to fully regulate this problem. Would it be good to subsequently define some of these jobs through sublegal acts, we are witnessing that we often have a lot of sublegal acts which are then often older than the law itself and even often happens to have some sort of meaning different, that we must ask the authentic opinions of the legislation committee, and here we have seen from the letter of the Legislative Committee that they do not even want to give any more opinions on certain laws. Therefore, in the Law on the Electronic Document in this first reading, it is certain that it should be sent to a second reading, that these opportunities should be addressed to see how we will be able to obtain not only certain documents from state institutions but also by copying each other between different companies today in a faster and simpler way to verify that these documents are okay. Just like today when you want to pay an account, you can do it through Internet banking and clearly see how much money you have in your current state and guarantee it, so you should see and find out I say an impartial institution that would register, or certification these signatures. I believe that, here, given that in this branch development is extremely fast and large, this law will be likely and outdated in a short time, that we will have to bring new ones, obviously there is progress in the last, I don't know twenty years far faster than any other branch and that we will have to use those trends that are in force today in the European Union. Here, the HSS Club will support this bill in the first reading and I suggest we get the final bill as soon as possible and bring it in and start applying it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45178	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, distinguished representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45179	Thank you, sir. Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you of some of the things that we have discussed here in the Parliament in our own time from the Central State Office for E-Croatia, we have actually had a presentation held in the Assembly where we have said and negotiated the dynamics in which Croatia, the Republic of Croatia will enter this informationary euro and the information society where we have defined what the contents and services are which will be implemented through the operational plan for the implementation of the E-Croatian programme by 2007 in Croatia. With this operational plan, we have defined what should be addressed in which period and for 2004 we have defined the content and services that should be done, including e-government, e-Justice, e-education, e-Health and e-business. This Law that has now come, the bill that has now come to the agenda, in any case, enters into all of these, all of these areas that we have listed and I would just like to say that in this implementation we are quite late because if we look at what is defined by the plan of activity for 2004 I must remind myself that it will be said that the information system of customs administrations, the national transport portal, then the design of the model of the electronic public procurement system and the design of the partnership system for the private and public sector. I think it's very late here, but I don't want to talk much about it right now, I'm going to go back to this law, but I want to warn you of one fact that was promised to be resolved at the time and it's not settled until today, and that's a question, now I don't know what to call it, whatever it was called, JMBG or to call it some other name that can be an identification number, it can be not know, a serial number, either a security number or I don't know how to define it. However, this is something without which any business and no statistics can be carried out, no analysis can be carried out if any number at the level of the state that will unequivocally determine each of us, means every single individual in the Republic of Croatia can do nothing about any statistics and any analysis, because we who are dealing with information, we know when we are going to do some base and when we go over that base with some other base and here it will be, clearly between the state administration, between the judiciary, between health care, all of them have some kind of base and if each of us does not have a single number that we, or some identification number, that I do not repeat all the names that can be, if they do not have any number to define us, in any case, that horizontal communication between all of these, between all these branches that we have defined, which we should implement information technology, naturally it will not be possible. And so here I appeal to the Central State Office that as soon as it appears with some identification number to define it, we know why it was withdrawn, it was withdrawn from JMBG because it contained personal data, meaning name and last name, it could not only be, birth date, even birthplace and sex, and that's why we said it had to be removed from public documents. So it was promised then that it would come with a new proposal in which your personal data would be hidden but each of us would get some kind of number. And here I am begging you, I have even wanted to go with a proposal of conclusions to commit the Central State Office to come out as soon as possible, but here I am appealing in this way that I do not have to refer the conclusions to the Parliament and that we are going in such a way as to simply respect this request of mine. Now I'd like to go back to this proposal for an electronic document bill. We are here, we are members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, received from the Faculty of Law, from the Civil Rights Department of their objections to this Act, so I would not like to read it, so I hope that we will adopt it in the second reading. I would kind of brief my reference to this on the proposal for a law on electronic document itself in any case commending the Central State Office for going out with such a bill because we know that the level of development of information technology is increasing every day and it is normal that it is important to define relations in business and this is commendable, however, has its own children's diseases. So I would, by some articles, see what I have seen as certain shortcomings that I believe will soon be corrected in the next reading. So, for example, Article 4 states the question of the concept of electronic document. This shall indicate all that is included in the electronic document. So it says all forms of written text, data and all that should be done by an electronic document. However, we know that the electronic document can appear between the other and the multimedia, the multimedia is not defined and is not defined in which way the electronic signature will be placed on the multimedia, and is not also defined what with viruses, with... The Trojan horses, which can also be found in that electronic document, will turn out to be part of the electronic document, and we earn other computers, and that should also separate that not all that is transmitted in electronic form, that it is not all that can be an electronic document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. We know what we said about the documentation cycle, but the question is, we know that every one of us when he's working on a computer puts its caps on, means some kind of paswords, usernems and passwords, and restricts access to that document. What does that long-term approach mean, who has the right to a permanent approach, I think that should be resolved differently because just like this can happen to any inspection or someone and check business and simply does not have the right to access because there is a cap on that computer, so you should see how to enable this permanent approach. In Article 10, which I think is very, very controversial because it is said that a copy of the electronic document on paper is carried out by a public notary. It's all right and it's normal when dealing with, in business means in procedures against public authorities, however, the question of both hardware and software is raised. So what does that have to do with the user who comes to the public notebook, and what's the public notebook supposed to have? If this software is different on what, what media would be the first to produce such an electronic document? On what hardware will you be able to read it? Because we know if you come up with any other version of any program that I don't now specify the names of those software manufacturers that, that there's a possibility that you can't read it without talking about that there are hardware restrictions. Whether it's a "zip drive", whether it's "flopy", whether it's a DVD, whether it's a CD, means that part, I think it should be better done in any case. Article 13 says this way, that it is predicted, "The use of any available and usable information... The speaker doesn't understand... "This formulation is pretty widespread and means that we can have anything, we can have any equipment and do it on any equipment. It's okay when we deal with each other in private traffic, so the company or private private company, however, when it's dealing with the state, and we say we set up e-business and set up an e-public administration, then the question is, how can this be made possible and what is the equipment available? Because someone works, we know very well what operating systems are, and we know how and how, with which information equipment they're still working in, in certain companies. Article 17(3) is then disputed as the question of reception is raised, intentional avoidance of reception, reception of the electronic document. It requires that every document that comes to be given confirmation. We all know well how we who use e-mail know how this certificate is performed and how this certificate can be avoided. That means if you... I often avoid it means that I have never received this document and that I can never be considered to have received this document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a thing the gentlemen of the Department of Civil Rights suggest is completely different because it puts it in an unequal relationship all those who receive the document in writing where the delivery is considered completed by a certain act, and here this delivery is never actually considered complete because as long as he, as long as he does not receive it, means that he did not receive it. In Article 19(1), point 3 is required to make the electronic document available and readable to authorised persons and to assist them with available and acceptable information and communication technologies. And Article 13, paragraph 3, says, "Any technology available", which is in collegiate with Article 19. That's where we say we can do any, and that's where it's said, it's said to be a certain one. I think that there should be far more attention to what it is minimum to set some standards by which these documents should, in particular, be respected by the public authorities. Any technology, any, any hardware, any software. And now there's still a rather controversial and monetary penalty because it's moving from 10 to 40 thousand kuna, and we know if we limit some business by that electronic document that he can lose far more anyway and that the amount can be millions, and we're now proposing such a small penalty, so I think we should consider that upper limit as well. To have that upper limit in relation to what it is, how much we've limited someone in business and how badly someone's damaged in business. And I still think that, in fact, the club of the CNS and the PGS in any case supports the first reading of this Law, however, we suggest that you adopt for the second reading a part of what the gentlemen of the Faculty of Law suggest. I believe that someone from the Committee on Information, Information and Media will say far more about it, but I suggest you adopt a good part of what they are proposing, and I also hope that you will adopt this request as regards some identification number to help all these informers in their work. So in creating these databases of data processing and everything else, to create software applications, and I also believe that you will bring, install into this some kind of information and technology standards that will bring any public notary of any public authority, whether private communication with these electronic documents is at some level. I don't, I don't advocate any software suppliers or hardware, I just want to set up some kind of minimum that we can't all read about the electronic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45180	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. Dear Representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45181	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is the Proposal for a Law on an Electronic Document and looking at the number of articles and scope we would not say that this is some big law, however, a very big, very important and very important law for our legal system. The economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia is now and in the near future based on the development and application of information and communication technology. It also becomes a fundamental driver of almost all economic, social, political and other processes and a leading instrument of interconnecting business entities regardless of their place of action, residence and time of current action. Information and communication technology is used as a tool to improve business activities and is used by more and more business entities and the authorities of the state administration. It is therefore necessary to create a certain legal environment, a specific legal framework that will provide sufficient level of security and protection of such a way of doing business. Although electronic operations can also be implemented without laws or regulations and other regulations which will determine whether or not someone will operate using information, communication technology or not, there is a problem of legal uncertainty in such a way that significantly slows the growth of electronic business. The adoption of the Law on the Electronic Document with the effect of the already adopted Law on Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Trade will allow public, uninterrupted and legally justified use and exchange of electronic documents with the creation of the trust of the highest public in the operation of the electronic document institution. The key category is the electronic signature to be edited, incorporated into the electronic document and it ensures the credibility and validity of the electronic document. This will create a space for the intensive operation of the electronic business system and for the development of the electronic administration. To fully encourage e-business and provide services to business entities and citizens foreseen by the e-Croatian programme as one of the strategic priorities. It also creates a basis for the wider use of the electronic business system and the provision of public services via the Internet. It is for business entities to accept more intensively e-commerce as it has already started in the state administration through the implementation of fast HR projects and an open public system of electronic land books, which is a lot of talk. The common feature for all emerging forms of electronic business is their increasing independence on paper media, as documents are produced, exchanged and archived in electronic form. The problem arises when a specific activity supported by electronic operations wants to be completed. Today's legal instruments continue to seek the current processing and transport of documents on paper, which often means views of already made electronic copies. This bill is legally regulated by these and other issues related to the use and transport of electronic documents in the Republic of Croatia. How significantly this area speaks, and some of the following indicators. Almost every other household, namely 47% in the Republic of Croatia owns a personal computer. The Internet uses 1.2 million citizens and slightly less than 20% use one of the electronic business services. This means that nearly 240,000 citizens buy, pay bills and arrange travel arrangements via the Internet. Croatia recorded a steady growth in the segment, and last year it reached an e-commerce range of 263 million US dollars or 85.9% more than in 2003. In Croatia today, almost anything can be purchased on the Internet, from banking services, tourist arrangements, airline tickets, computers, white techniques to building materials, and an increasing number of companies and each other begin to use all forms of electronic business. Given all these arguments, I think this law is necessary in any case to support and in the first reading possibly certain shortcomings to correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45182	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45183	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another law that doesn't have a lot of articles, it's 25, but it seems to me that the moment it does, when it starts to apply, it's going to cause a lot of storms. I believe that in many, it will cause confusion, one of which will cause enthusiasm. Why? Because Croatia and our society are in general in a lot of informational illiterate and we belong as, probably somewhere in the tail of citizens who have this elemental informational literacy. Clearly, I expect this law will encourage all those informational ignorants to start investing in themselves, in their IT training, because knowledge of information and communication technologies is one component of elemental literacy in the modern world. When we see, when we read this law and these articles, we actually see that this Law on the Electronic Document prescribes the structure of the electronic document, the form of the presentation of the electronic document, the original, the outline of the electronic document, the way of use, the design of the electronic document, the sending, receiving, the time of dispatch and reception, and the storage of the electronic document. Clearly, the whole structure from beginning to end is foreseen by law here. I guess the experts who did this are that all possible traps were predicted, and that this debate itself, if individuals saw such shortcomings, would bring improvement to this document itself. This law will not disappear the written document on paper but will be written with a written document, so that this electronic document is found in an equal use. Because, as you can see so far, we haven't had such a single law that those who were better equipped and written that they had one double business, a business with a written document, a classical written document and an electronic document. Only when we have this law will one legal validity have this electronic document. What I would like to say about some of these articles refers primarily to the original, Article 9, where the source of the electronic document is spoken of. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Then it's questionable whether, in fact, we still have two original documents. We have the electronic and the one in writing. I mean, that provision is not entirely clear to me, and I believe that others will have doubts. Furthermore, in Article 18, I think there will be the most reluctance among those citizens who do not have sufficient information training, where the time for the reception of the electronic document in paragraph 2 is mentioned. It says the time of receipt of the electronic document is considered to be the time when the email document was sent and entered into the recipient information system. What is the recipient information system? That's the moment I open my computer and open my mail, is that it? So, I think maybe there's a little more to be explained. I'm afraid that there will be in this part of the mess especially with those documents that define the relationships, the interests of individuals etc., which touch their interests, personally in special interests. These are my objections that I believe we'll get to another reading, or together with other remarks, we'll clear up, we'll get to a better document. In any event, the application of this law implies compliance with other legal provisions. It also requires expanding and investing in information education, starting with primary schools and beyond. We expect this law to expand with many needs for additional information education, which is quite good and a positive kind of push for additional education. Furthermore, there will be development of electronic business and other activities that are actually based on electronic business, that what is also said here will be better competitive in the world market, and the moment when the application comes that the dangers of destroying individual documents will be reduced because the written document is more frequently exposed, it is more exposed to its destruction, destruction than this electronic document. Clearly if he prepares and arranges as prescribed and I hope that the need for those big shelves will be reduced, for those great registries to keep these documents, etc. Anyway, I'm giving my support to this proposal in my first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45184	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45185	Mr. Vice-President, well, here we were expecting this Law on the Electronic Document, and this bill is another law by which the Government creates preconditions for further strengthening the economy, i.e. achieving economic growth, stability, as well as the implementation of necessary structural reforms. This law encourages new knowledge, the use of new technologies because only a knowledge-based economy can develop rapidly. The indisputable fact is that information and communication technology is increasingly being adopted and applied in Croatia, that it is used in business and everyday life. Now, I believe that the conditions of maturity, finally, have already come to a young generation, a new generation of which the Internet daily is computerically fully written and that, in fact, it should be done as soon as possible, not only this law, but also other laws to adapt to it. According to the "GFK Institute" we see that currently in Croatia the Internet uses around 1.2 million citizens. So the last, I don't know, two, three years almost 600 thousand new users. About 20% of Internet users use one of the electronic business services. It means that it's already being bought online, bills are being paid, tourist arrangements are being negotiated. Last year, a range of 263 million dollars was also reached, almost 86% more than in 2003. Most of the transactions relate to business between companies, almost 90%, while the rest was achieved in classical business between companies and end-users, so banking services, tourist arrangements, airline tickets, computers, etc. The most successful forms of electronic business in Croatia are on-line tourism, 18%, Internet banking, 16% users, e-commerce 8%, and this form of electronic business grows the slowest, but with indicators that are not negligible. In Croatia, almost 100,000 citizens buy online every month. There is a clear need to pay close attention to protection here, for, behold, many users were in some way and deceived, careless, and were giving too much data. Therefore, people need to be instructed to do so. It is interesting that, among the first benefits of electronic business, financial institutions and banks that are known for their special attention and protection against the risks of doing business have taken greater advantage through better competitiveness and economics than possible risks. It is evident from the data that electronic business is expanding and developing at high speed, that it is present in all parts of our lives and work. However, the ability to use and the advantage of electronic business are far greater and are constantly improving and creating new ones. In electronic business, there is a certain legal uncertainty which makes it significantly difficult and slows down the growth and development of electronic business. It is precisely this bill that seeks to achieve the legal certainty of business entities and to create the trust of the highest public, especially business entities in the use and use of electronic business and electronic documentation. A certain legal environment is created, which is extremely important, which will provide a sufficient level of security and protection for such business. Although many business entities are already using electronic business today, the unresolved legal status of electronic documentation has forced them to run so on. Paper documentation. The existing Accounting Act allows accounting documents to be conducted in electronic form, but it did not provide them with legal certainty, credibility and reliability, so accounting documents must be produced on paper media, paper media. There is a similar situation in other areas of business, marketing, commercials, payments, etc. A particular problem with business entities using electronic business and electronic documentation is archiving and keeping. The electronic archives that had not been legally resolved so far had to be transmitted to paper form, imported, delayed, all of which required more time and money and space, ultimately and a large number of people. Business entities and business operators, and particularly experts from different profiles with great relief, will welcome the adoption of this law, as unnecessary paperwork and huge dust archives will finally be resolved, business speeded up and the viability of business will be increased. I know from experience, and in practice it has been confirmed that that businessman who once introduced some form of electronic work only improves and improves it, and never returns to the classical form, mode of work. Because we have to admit that new technologies are a challenge for the future, especially for young educated generations. For this reason, we must provide them with legal opportunity, security and protection in the application of new opportunities provided for by the accelerated technological development in the world. Perhaps this bill is not perfect and certainly many will find grudges, but let them say and propose corrections and additions, or offer better solutions, not just criticisms. Because in the end nothing is static and forever, everything is subject to change and practice will show to what extent and in what direction these changes should go. The practice so far has shown that the Law on Electronic Signature is applicable and that Internet banking uses an increasing number of legal entities and that no more serious problems have been identified in its application, especially in the area of data security and protection. On the other hand, the countries of the European Union are legally regulating the use of electronic documents, so why should we be lagging behind in this area. The adoption of the proposed law will allow business entities open and secure electronic business activity in the country, abroad, as foreseen by the "e-Croatia" programme as one of the strategic priorities. In view of the above, this proposal for a law, especially since the use of electronic documents is more than possible risks in the business of legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45186	Replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45187	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Not at all to reduce the exposure of colleagues Markovanovic and all others to introduce modernisation, conditionally speaking, in business, but it is important to point out that here in the debate very often the concepts are being puzzled. For example, a colleague Markovanovic mentioned Internet banking, paying bills and in this context using electronic signatures. The electronic signature thing has nothing to do with it, it's just... Today in Croatia, one or two people may actually be using electronic signatures, because there is simply no problem of certification, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also tells the trade and purchase of arrangements via the Internet, etc., should distinguish online purchases, it is simply a different methodology than the essential transfer to electronic business, which is then solved by both electronic trade and electronic documents. And by the way, Mr. Vice President, allow me just one more remark. With some colleagues, I am moved to listen to these discussions, given that the proposals that my colleagues and I on behalf of the SDP have made to introduce tax reliefs on the purchase of electronic equipment, information equipment and information-electronic descriptors simply did not receive support here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45188	Replica reply, distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45189	Well, here, I thank my colleague for the warning. But I didn't even want to say it. I'm just saying that it's actually getting more and more used, using the media, using electronics, which is actually good, and that was actually the goal. And what bothered me was actually in some discussions, which prevails in Croatia that system... So kill everything that's a bit of joy, which can help us, which makes us happy to get closer to the world, to the developed world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45190	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45191	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we will all agree that electronic trading logically is the consequence of strengthening the Internet, that the popularity of the Internet today is such that it does not only consume the transfer and technology of knowledge and information but simply takes away both the trading space and almost all the economic phenomena that are happening. The communication channels of the modern world are increasingly taking electronic form, and traditional legislation cannot meet the need for electronic data exchange based on an electronic signed document. The government signature was one of the foundations of commercial transactions, but no less important role of electronic signature is not under new electronic circumstances. In respect of informality as a general principle of mandatory law, the need for parties to ensure a correctness with appropriate evidence should also be taken into account in the event of a dispute. When we look at it from a historical perspective, we will see different or more types of identification forms from stone and clay tiles through the seal to the signed paper documents. Today's written form is not only limited to paper and ink, but consists of a request for the existence of funds that enable it to determine with certainty the content and the statementr. Of course, the signature is not a legally defined concept, but it is simply a generally accepted legal standard which has not been raised up to today, namely, by the time electronic communication occurs with new legislative reforms, it is not only the purpose of declaring the electronic record in writing, but rather the equalisation of their legal force, provided that the electronic document can fulfil the functions expected from the one in writing. The basic functions of the signature can simply be summarised or said in three categories: authenticity means identifying the identity of the person who signed it, the integrity or the determination that the document has not been changed after the signature and the non-refundability itself, i.e. the disabling of subsequent withdrawal or denial of signatures. In order for the signature to be able to fulfil those functions, it is clear that it needs to be connected to the signer and under its exclusive control. This is what most of the problems with electronic signatures arise from, and the situation is a bit of a reminder of the time when the seal was used to sign and the owner was obliged to keep it, of course. The electronic signature itself is a generic term that implies a whole series of different types of digitally displayed data such as the printed name at the end of an e-mail, a scan of a photo of a hand signature, a secret PIN code, a computer stored fingerprint or a digital signature. In addition to the basic functions mentioned, however, electronic signatures are often required to meet some of the additional requirements that are very important and are actually very often the most important. First, it must be unique for the person who uses it, which means that manufacturing technology must not allow the appearance of more of the same signatures for different persons. Secondly, it must be under the sole control of the person using it, namely the possibility of misuse of the theft of funds or data for the production of signatures. Third, it should be possible to verify the identity of the user, given that electronic signatures do not have to be clearly referred to any name or last name, it is necessary to ensure that the identity itself is checked. And lastly, there should be a link between the signature and the signed ID, so the handwritten signature is physically placed on the document while the electronic signature requires that the link be specifically established. The very history of emerging new circumstances in information, in trade, in the transfer of knowledge began relatively not long ago. Germany is one of the first countries to try or resolve part of the legal electronic signatures of the Digital Signature Act. The Italian document has been solved since 97. That is why, in this era where I say the Internet is the logical consequences of what is happening and of the accelerated development of technology, it is simply the need to try to bring it closer to the citizens. Of course, in this respect, it is quite legitimate, quite reasonable of the suggestions that my colleague Lugarić used before me, which is necessary to encourage above all in the earliest school days of primary schools, in high schools, motivated them but not only by our call and lagging about how much it is necessary but concrete contributions by subsidising equipment, giving special subsidies to the most advanced, helping those families who simply cannot use these benefits for material reasons, and having talented children who would like to be educated, who would simply want to keep one continuity that has become almost the same in Croatia today at the symbolic level and whether you have a mobile or not. Therefore, lagging behind in this technology also creates social problems that are very often implemented on children from the earliest age, from primary school to high school, and therefore it is necessary to ensure this as a single social minimum. It is necessary to install it into a positive social legislation that will guarantee every child from primary school, from the first grade to be trained. Joining the European Union is entering a family that is at this point in knowledge, using knowledge, technology in front of us. In order to reach it, we need to strengthen our additional efforts precisely in the domain of education, in the domain of knowledge, in the domain of technology transfer, and we don't need it here, we're a little late if we haven't met that technology and that kind of technology. It needs those younger, it needs our children who need to be in a completely equal position to deal with a global world that has understood the advantages of this technology, the benefits of knowledge and the way knowledge is used. However, without infrastructure, without realizing that it is necessary to establish a positive attitude towards the youngest in this particular domain as soon as possible. It is a crucial role and HSS has always advocated knowledge as the greatest liquid, for knowledge as a crucial concept and for the knowledge and acceptance of the equal value of knowledge for all in this country as a crucial condition not for entering the European Union but for our own sakes and for our ability to carry and within ourselves, and then, of course, that our knowledge and this experience of a new generation that is coming, which will not be faced with such problems, but that is why we must now enable them. In that sense, this legislative proposal is a step forward, it should be supported, but by these measures that have all been referred to, we have to create the possibility that everyone is using it and that our education must finally realize that it has to come out a little bit to say so brutally from the Middle Ages and that it must accept standards not to our children, and I have one small child who unfortunately is so hard sometimes to carry that bag on his back, it is a clearly known topic, but our education has to come out of the Middle Ages and it has to accept norms, standards, and for that we have to invest money, because the money invested there is the most valuable and most smart money invested there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45192	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45193	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'd just like to supplement in this section, it's so important by law to resolve the electronic documents. I'm just going to put it in perspective, our co-signature institute, that means the co-signature institute related to the use of the Armed Forces when that institute is needed, means the sub-signation of the Prime Minister and the President of the State. So, and that institute unfortunately,... that we will have to apply it, and we know for ourselves that the president often travels, as well as the Prime Minister, and then it is important to resolve it as Mr. Markov says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because, say, there's no part of the Armed Forces that can be used, let's say, there's a threat of a terrorist attack, and then the President of the State is, say, in America, the Prime Minister in Brussels, and he has to react within two and three hours. Therefore, this is very important and well worked out. It's the same situation with the intelligence community. So now we have the opportunity to solve this in other regulations not in the way that we have now decided that it can happen if one is in one place, the other on the other, that there is no one to sign, to order and necessary. So it's important to do exactly as Mr. Marco used to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45194	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45195	I will not refer to the relationship between the Prime Minister and the President of the State, I hope they can agree on everything. But first of all, I was talking about the perception of the future and the role of this Law that should give a wider basis for the implementation of positive movements but above all on the principle of the right of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45196	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45197	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, here I think there's nothing questionable in terms of supporting this law, I think that all clubs and each of us will give support and, of course, expect to be respected until the second reading... comments, proposals to be made in the course of the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is here for me, however, is why this Law comes to us in 2005 and not a year, two or three years ago. Namely, colleagues and colleagues I recently attended a seminar in Soren, France, and there they showed indicators related to countries in transition and Croatia fell to 9th place with regard to information Kumnication Technologies. Which is really bad. 9th place. Slovenians are in first place, then Czechs, Hungarians, Lithuania is in 4 places etc.. We're at 9. You heard from Mr. Kapraljevic that our club's position gave me one really serious remark here we have to do with the operational plan because when the government presented its project E-Croatia then it made it clear what the dynamics of the implementation of the plan would be. Unfortunately, he's very late here, and we're unwarrantedly late. Are colleagues and colleagues involved in financial reasons here, are they technically technological, are they human? I don't think any of that, maybe partial personnel, but certainly not financially because we know how much a computer costs today, technically technologically,... We've drawn already between all our centers, therefore, and that's not disputed either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But human beings can appreciate it, but then again, we have good examples around us. Slovakia, Slovakia has decided to send all the people who are on the state's wake first to the basic course, and then to the advanced course related to their profession. In Slovakia, 80,000 people have passed such courses in the past five years. First I repeat basics and then according to my profession, very intense, specialized courses. In them, a person who does not pass that course within the corresponding number of years, and this is repeated every 5 years, she gets fired. There's no talking at all. Flights from the system of education, from the state administration, there cannot be a semi-literate person in the system and we expect to follow clearly what is happening in the world in an economic and any other sense. I think Mrs. Anticevic, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned that our registers aren't networked, that's true, and that's unfortunate. In one Norway, for 15 years, a citizen may come to any outpost, in any city and receive a document, print out a document, and there's a clerk who's authorized to hit the seal to make the document full. So there's no need to waste time, use it, but then you could use that technology, let alone today. So if they could then, probably we can take one of these models into account and make a clear use of it in us. Therefore, we must absolutely switch to higher speed, we must, therefore, network our registers, we must start with human training and yesterday, we must clearly and bring the system closer to the citizens. Here we have heard of these encouraging measures proposed by colleagues from the SDP a few months ago, that's one part of the story. Other countries that even financially were able to make it possible for their citizens they did, let's say one Lithuania one great model for me. Each city and every municipality opened a small space with 7, 8 computers and citizens could come at any time in the area and use Internet services free of charge. One person in the city, or municipal service, was in charge of interpreting what and how they could do and use everything on the computer. Therefore, they went that way, and it is unlikely that Lithuania has come to an even 4th place in transition with regard to information communication technologies through such a very active policy in this area. Finally, I'd like to mention something that happened yesterday and the day before yesterday. A colleague of Chikesh, a colleague of Mimica and I attended a meeting once in London in front of our Parliamentary Committee on European Integration and one of the topics was an assessment of the effectiveness of the decisions taken in parliaments. You know. So they not only make decisions, they make laws, but after a very short period of time, they put a clear document on the table where the government conducts an analysis of efficiency. This is one area that certainly requires that we try to determine as quickly as possible where the reasons why Croatia is lagging behind in this problem because there are no reasons for me, I repeat these are not financial, they are not technological, nor human, obviously something that I would put under the hat of organisations. So the organization in us is absolutely one factor that needs to be improved. Okay, I would skip this second part, some elements because my colleagues have already talked about some details, not to repeat ourselves, but I certainly believe that through a better organization we can do much more and we need to do much more about informing our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45198	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45199	Dear Vice President, the esteemed head of the Central State Office. First of all, I want to determine in advance that I certainly support the adoption of this Law and that I am glad to go in two readings so that we have enough time, so we here in the Parliament but also the expert and the rest of the public to discuss it between the first and second readings. I'm afraid, however, that during the debate, we've confused some concepts and what the people of the grandmothers and frogs would say. So at one point, we were talking about Internet availability, Internet use, online trading, where we even said that tourism has 16, 18% already in place, and we still don't have the law. If that's really how it is, then we don't need this law at all. If we do so much without the law, then we don't need the law. But the point is, is it different? The question of the Internet or networks is only a assumption that electronic documents could be used. So if you have an electronic document and you don't have a channel, and the Internet is in this case a channel, then it doesn't serve you anything. If on the other hand you have what we have, which is the Internet, and you don't have an electronic document, then there's some other stuff going on on the Internet, other things are being exchanged, tickets are being bought, hotels are being booked, accommodations in tourism or I don't know what, but obviously it's not that they don't make electronic documents. I, for example, wonder as a citizen whether when I enroll a child in school and, in future, when this Law is passed, I will have to go to the home office and take out the child's birth certificate, and then take those two documents to school. Or, for example, it'll be enough then, enough just to take out the concubine. And will we then be able to remove the housekeeper or download it as an electronic document somewhere from some database or service. Because even today when the state could simplify this procedure so you don't have to, the person who has the ID card doesn't have to take out the birth certificate and the housekeeper anymore. We haven't done that yet. So even today, when you apply to certain things, you have to bring both your birth certificate and your housekeeper and photocopy of your identity, identity card or show your ID card. Gentlemen, to get your ID card, you must be born and you must be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And file a motion. And your ID says when you're born and where you're born. And today when you have to wear it in paper you have to bring those three documents. Now the question is, when are we going to have the Electronic Document Act, will we still have to carry those three documents? We will only be able to bring them in electronic form so in digital form or, in the meantime, to a colleague, Markovanovic, it is a question of improving power and adapting to bring only what is the final document. So what we had to bring before us in order for the final ones not to have to bring again. And then, of course, it's an improvement that we can do in digital, digital form. But equally not only do we have to change that amount of documents we have to change the laws that are exclusively looking for a document in paper. So you have a whole series of laws today, and one of them is the Public Procurement Act, which tells you, for example, that you have to bring in an original or certified copy of which the State Public Procurement Control Commission says that the certified copy is the only original paper photocopyed and certified by the public notary. You can't already, for example, register companies today, go to "Quick", download from the Internet, go to the notebook and check it out with the public notary and submit it to the tender in the public procurement process, because the commission will tell you it's not a document. So not even that banal thing. Therefore, this Bill of Law, or this Law, is merely a premise that there is a general change in the mind to say what an electronic document can be and let us not think that the economy, institutions and others will not take advantage of that possibility. However, the problem of our citizens is not in the economy. Our citizens' problem is in the state administration because the state administration creates tails at the door when you wait for individual documents. And that is why it should be said that in the second reading, the Government should go out and say within what deadline it will ensure to citizens that everything that the state administration issues, and then commits both local and regional and regional self-government to what they issue as documents, must also be published in electronic form. But not only to be critical of the government. As an agent, I wonder if when this law is passed, and I hope it will be by the end of this year whether we will still have to walk towards President-in-Office's desk to apply for a debate. Or we'll be in a position to use our options. And the law says in Article 1, where there is, therefore, the possibility that there is electronic equipment and programs for the exchange, transmission and production of documents that can be done. We have it in this hall. So we have a network, we have computers, the president has computers. I guess there's someone who can make a application form, in digital form, and I wonder if when this law is passed we'll be able to do a banal thing, apply for a debate in, through an electronic document. Will we, for example, be allowed to search these electronic documents, or will we still have to break the table of the President of the Parliament to see which one we are? Because, gentlemen, how can we expect someone out there in a home office or in a public administration office to be at the service of the citizens when they publish a copy of the birth certificate if we ourselves have to carry these papers over and over to the President's Office and watch what we are in order. And secondly, whether we're going to use technological capabilities, for example, and to exchange electronic documents, we don't just need the Internet. Electronic documents can also be exchanged via the Internet. So we and the government, for example, can have an Internet network, or we can have a constant connection that will prevent us from having viruses, or I don't know what foreign secret services are in for, downloading information that we do, and then we don't have to have a bunch of documents on our tables, but rather, when we get the proposal online, the government sends us to our local network of electronic documents in the form of bill proposals, and then we'll look at it nice, list, read, use and print it. At the end of this afternoon, we will discuss the waste strategy, and we will also contribute to one of the specifics of the strategy because there will be no more useful waste. We'll burn the woods, they won't cut the trees, and on the other hand, we won't have any more of this scrap paper. In any case, the law should be adopted as soon as possible, but it will remain as well as the Law on Electronic Signing is an unused option if, above all, the State Administration is not obliged to act under that Act, or it will not allow citizens to make full use of all the services of the State Administration using the electronic document. So no more paper-shaped documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45200	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45201	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First, we're not talking about the waste strategy today. We're talking about the waste management strategy. It's the first correction to an incorrect quote. And I'm surprised by the fact that a respected colleague who is also mayor and also a candidate for the president of the SDP doesn't know that already in the Law on the System of State Administration we have decided that the authorities of the State Administration are obliged to obtain information on the things kept in the records. This situation is also about issuing IDs and all other things that the bodies do not do even though they are paid a fee for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45202	Thank you. And he didn't say he was a candidate for president of the SDP. Replica esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45203	Namely, my replica of my colleague Mršić does not go counter to what he said, but rather I agree with him that we should and should, as in most other parliaments, be able to register with electronic means clearly. But even in this room, colleagues and colleagues, we have this equipment that's right in front of us. That equipment in most of the parliaments on this little planet of ours is also used for reporting. It's a nice name there, I press plus, my name shows up, the names come out nice and standing around all the time. I know exactly when I'm up and if I can go out for five minutes or if I have to stay here, etc. Therefore, even minimal shifts would be very useful should only be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45204	Replica, the esteemed representative of Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Mršić, who spoke about electronic capabilities, information and all other things that this new modern technology allows. However, I would like to replicate in one part that using 340,000 euros as my colleague Bajt has now told me, in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, this hall could also be equipped in a way that along with these existing four keys here there are three more for applications and what counterpart Doric said could be handled through a single central display without looking at the possibilities of information equipment. We are talking about clean electronic equipment, which in the last term of the Parliament was very, very much paid, and unfortunately it didn't work until the beginning of this assembly's calling until after the funds had to be invested to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45206	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45207	When a colleague Maria Byte told you then she should have told you that the possibility of what we have on the table is that we should have applied, but her colleague Maria Byte should have told you that even if there is no possibility of what you are saying, and I claim that there is, that certainly, colleagues byte this equipment enables you to vote on it, and we, despite the fact that the government has invested 300,000 euros. This government invested 300,000 euros, we don't even use it for a vote, we don't even use it for a vote. Please. This equipment that we have allows what our colleague said that when we're already reported to enter these names into the system here and then we have here on display who, for example, is in order for the debate, which are the points in order for the debate, when the duration of the debate is foreseen. But unfortunately, we don't even know what we're going to do this afternoon, let alone to see what's going to happen on the display tomorrow. So my debate went for software and hardware not to be enough if you don't have political will, and obviously there's no political will in this House even if the keys are used, so I'm afraid it'll rust, so when it's political will, it'll be unusable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45208	Thank you. Finally, Mrs. Simic, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs, MPs and MPs who have been very constructively discussing here. We also expressed our desire at the debates on the parliamentary committees to include the new constructive remarks that we have received there and to include in the final proposal for the text of this law. I would perhaps refer only to a few remarks made here and which we did not intend to resolve through this law. When it comes to the need for financial resources for the application of this particular law, we planned to implement the e-Croatian programme, the National Information Security Programme and the Quick HR Programme. The law itself provides for the opening of opportunities, but we cannot know in advance who is going to use everything and to what extent this possibility is really going to be used and therefore we consider this law as a single framework, and we did not consider it necessary in the legal text itself to plan and finance for its implementation in particular in the state administration. A few more topics mentioned in the discussion concern, for example, technology standardisation. Indeed, that is extremely important. Without standardisation of technologies to be applied, we will find it difficult to ensure that all participants in electronic business can exchange electronic documents. However, what has shown our very modern history is that technologies working with digital documents in general information and communication technologies record such growth, such rapid changes that a legal text can not possibly monitor such dynamics because of the very dynamics of adoption and preparation. In the Quick HR programme, we designed the creation of a Croatian interoperability framework that we plan to bring into line with the European Union's interoperability framework under the ICBC programme and we believe that it is necessary through a much more flexible mechanism to ensure that equipment, applications and at all the application of technology in any area of application in the state administration. I hope that answered at least some questions. I repeat, I thank you all. We are ready to install into the legal text all constructive remarks. There have been many very useful remarks coming from practice here and I hope that the final text will be a good answer to all these remarks here. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45210	Thank you. With this, we have completed our morning work and here to correct my colleague, Mršić, we know what we are going to do this afternoon. At 15.00 we continue with the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45211	Proposal for a Law on Electronic Document, first reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal of the Electronic Document Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find 93 votes to, one abstention, a proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. - Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers, first reading, P.Z. No. 347 The Proposer is Government. I ask the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy of Herman Sušnik to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45213	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology first reading. Foresting and wood technology as an economic activity play an important role in the overall economic and social life. In addition, unlike other wood processing industries, it requires very few import components and it is particularly important that it belongs to a very clean industry. Of course, high professional work in the field of forestry and wood technology requires high professional staff, i.e. legal and physical persons of a licence to perform these works. At present, there is no legal obstacle to any high professional job being hired by an under-educated expert and without greater responsibility for the quality of the work done. The establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers is expected to introduce order on the labour market in the field of forestry, hunting, wood processing according to the criteria of European and world practice. The activity of the chamber includes representation, advisory and development functions, promotion of the development of professions, care for specific and professional training of members, care for the Code of Professional Ethics and determines professional obligations of members. Authorised engineers carry out independent and professional activities from their professional field. Professionally, morally and materially, they are responsible for their work and above all protect the profession and the employer. The chamber of forestry and wood technology engineers exist in European countries, are set up as independent or as... within the national engineering chamber. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The draft Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology was drawn up on the initiative of the Croatian Forest Society with the support of the Croatian Engineering Union and on the basis of documents of international professional chambers in Europe, primarily in Austria and Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45214	Thank you very much. Committees on legislation, agriculture and forestry, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. A SDP representative club, respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45215	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, a few principled remarks. More and more in a variety of professions are being approached by the establishment of chambers of these professions as special associations which, in accordance with the Constitution, need to realise the interests of the persons who are joining them and who are setting them up. However, one issue that is raised by this is the question, in fact, whether it is compulsory membership or establishment or optional. From the practical Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia to now or to this case, we get solutions that essentially offer mandatory membership in chambers and in this respect raise questions from the aspect of constitutionality, or Article 43. A constitution which, I quote, guarantees everyone the right to free association in order to protect their breakthroughs or to take up social, economic, political, national, cultural and other beliefs and objectives. For this reason, everyone can freely establish trade unions and other associations and participate in and out of them, etc., etc. Instead of obtaining free establishment and organisation and inclusion, we legally prescribe the creation of a chamber, in this particular case of forestry engineers and wooden technology. At the same time, we pressure the defacto legal on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia of these professions that they must be members of these associations. In fact, it is very simple to extract this if only a little insight or read this text you will notice that the chamber among other things is run by the directory of authorised engineers established by the statute and that the status of authorised engineer is acquired by the property of a member of the chamber or obtained by enrolment in the directory. In other words, you can't be an engineer because you graduated from forestry, which you possibly passed a state exam, that doesn't mean anything. You must be entered in the directory and entered into the chamber, and at that moment you actually obtain constitutionally, it is not a declaratory act but a constitutional act of an authorised engineer. But at that moment you gain something else, that you are, by force of the law, actually forced to do certain tasks in your profession to be a member of this which is contrary to the very spirit and idea of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I think those are the things we need to react to immediately and warn about. To be clear, I have nothing against this association in principle, although it exists and it has the possibility to involve it, but it should not tie a particular professional position of a person without practically having to lay down any knowledge, or any skills, or, in particular, any professional position other than the rank of enrolment. Of course, our third principled remark on this is that the chamber must have public authority and in this context is here and set up for the chamber to have public authority in Article 5. However, it runs a directory of authorised forestry and wood technology engineers. He's still renewing and withdrawing licenses, so let's do it okay. But to run a directory doesn't have to be a special public authority, and it isn't. The Codex isn't either. But a whole series of questions that are being put into jurisdiction. For example, the chamber council, the chamber assembly, for example, makes a decision on the height and registration of the membership fee. It's public authority. Then, a whole series of general acts that apply to all members of the chamber, etc., etc. I'm sure they are public authorities. In this context, the content of the jurisdiction and the congregation on the one hand should be examined shortly before the second reading. On the other hand, it should be seen what public authority is under the statutes. And of course, in this context, this part should be developed and entered in the content of public powers. By the way, if that's what you're talking about and it is when it comes to the statutes. For example, on the basis of the statutes, meetings, chamber bodies, registration procedures, directory management, professional tasks, professional powers, rights and duties of authorised engineers are convened and maintained. It is very interesting that the statute will prescribe the rights and duties of authorised engineers when they are granted the status of authorised graduate and enrolment in the chamber and here they should be discussed not on the rights and duties of authorised engineers but on which their duties in the chamber are linked to the exercise as authorised legislators can hardly be transferred to the statutes. It should still be a legal solution but if it is already to be transferred then it must be public authority, it must be published, etc., etc. And in this context, a particular question arises whether it is sufficient, then, that only the ministry responsible for the affairs of forestry and hunting should give its prior consent to the statute. If it is public authority and the law is passed on by the Parliament to any association or legal entity in general public authority, then these public powers must be given consent by the Parliament, such as when it comes to public authority of the Red Cross, or when it comes to the Croatian Auto-Club, or when it comes to public authority pension-inhabitation, etc., etc. Such matters should be subject to the consent of the Parliament to determine, among other things, whether or not it is in breach of the Constitutional Law on protected and prescribed rights. Furthermore, the same applies to some more nomote technical where it is beautifully seen among other things, Article 9 is completely different, I have taken this as an example, but in fact it is a completely unsettled nomotechnical law because Article 9 in paragraph 4 says, in fact, it is said in Article 9. The chamber assembly consists of elected professional class representatives, and then the Chamber Assembly is provided with proportionate representation and so on, I'll comment on it a little bit, but then you have a break of 4. The Chamber Assembly of Two Points and is now writing jurisdiction, so this is a special article, it can't be the same article, it simply can't be in the same article and it has to be in a special article. The second question is whether we agree with all these congregation responsibilities, but it must be carried out in a special article. In particular, it is interesting to say in Article 9 that the Chamber Assembly has ensured the proportionate representation of the professional classes and these two, as you know, there are engineers, engineers' forestry, technology, wood and each would have to have at least five and then, after that, by choice, and then, in the Chamber Council, it is said that the Council makes president of the Chamber, presidents of the professional classes, but they are not elected by function. Of course, it is seen further that the Chamber Council has the powers of the President of the Council all of a sudden, with the powers of the Assembly of the Council. So, they overlap and the question arises, in fact, and who answers to whom, and why do these things in one strange way, for example, implement decisions and conclusions of the Chamber Assembly, says here, for example, the same thing does for the Chamber Council, the same thing is done and as President Commora says, where decisions and conclusions of the chamber body are carried out, and is responsible for the legality of work. And so does the Council. Now, if he's responsible for the legality of the work, why is the Council covered? Then let the Council be given some other powers and control, etc., etc.... Of course, it's very interesting are solutions that talk about some issues that are quite unusual, you know. For example, it is said that besides the rest, the Chamber is doing the following, and now it is not said who in the Chamber, but also says it is performing the following: it represents the interests of its members. You know, it's public authority, it's this in Article 6 that's not just such a power to the Chamber, you know, give the Chamber general authority to represent it according to the third interests of its members, give them public authority, but the question is, under what conditions and criteria, I guess a member would have to give some power of attorney, etc., etc., which isn't even settled here at all. Of course, the issue organizes professional training of members of the Chamber, that's good, it's just asking whether there are any certificates after which members of the Chamber acquire, the more they actually pay for it. They're very interesting solutions that are, they say. The Statute may contain provisions on other important issues relevant to their members. So if important questions are important in themselves for their members, this should not be stressed twice as important, it actually points back to a nomotechnical situation that should be particularly elaborated. Most interestingly, the Code of Professional Ethics brings the Assembly along with the previous consent of the Ministry, of course referring to the Ministry of Labour, Forestry, Hunting, etc.. It's really asking questions, and then who brings the code. The assembly? No, I don't. If there is a prior consent, then practically no act, in its content cannot be voted without having brought the previous consent. But then it actually means that an important influence on what is an ethical code in its content that the Ministry is not a professional association, or this Chamber. Therefore, it is not necessary, because it is one of the important things why it is established. It's a similar thing with service prices. It is said this: The Chamber Assembly, with the previous opinion of the professional class and with the previous consent of the Ministry, determines the prices, be careful, there are now two previous ones. So, in order to even determine the prices of its services, the assembly has to get a preliminary opinion of the class and then it still has to get the previous consent of the Ministry, and what does it actually do? Nothing. I mean nothing, it's turning into a voting machine and it's not good because it actually all points to one normal conclusion that it's a para-state management body, not that it's an association of interested entities specifically forest engineers and wood technology. Of course, it's interesting to ask about the directory, you know why? Because enrolment in the directory gets the status of an authorised engineer and then starts, it raises the question of what is an engineer? And the engineer is the one who graduated college. That is what the article 2 says. And now an additional question is being opened all of a sudden, which is why and what are the criteria for enrollment, and once you get it in a completely different article, conditions for enrolment in the directory, Article 22 of which refers to citizenship, business ability, that it is graduated, that it has three years of working experience in the profession, passed a professional exam, or 10 years of working in the profession on special... professional direction, etc., or Master's degree or doctorate and so on, however, there is no record of which knowledge and skills he must master in order to carry and acquire the status of authorised engineer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that this article is 22 and Article 19 is actually brought into question from the point of view of the implementation of Article 21 which states that an authorised engineer may perform the tasks, see now: here he acquires the status of authorised, prescribed conditions here which he would have to meet in order to be authorised, to be able to enter, and to carry out the professional course for which he is trained, or for which he has been trained by practice and for which no one has established in those three years except that he has three years of training but which he can perform, etc., has not been established by any expert examination or anything. Therefore, it is obvious that such a manipulation is not for formal but content reasons that it could not survive but would have to be done in an important, important way until the second reading. Of course, there is also a very interesting question of liability insurance where each authorised engineer is obliged to ensure responsibility but now, given the representation of the chamber, the chamber can be represented by an authorised legal person, she can arrange for him, he is only obliged to pay. If any organisation, or company in which it does so, does not accept it. So the question remains, really, what is it with each individual's freedom? It is particularly interesting in Article 35 where serious injuries are said to include reproof, fine, banning the activities of an authorised engineer. First of all, there's no number of jobs he's doing in law-authorized engineers, that's first. Secondly, it cannot be prohibited to carry out these tasks permanently, it should be determined at what time, when, why etc. And thirdly, which are particularly difficult forms of public duty violation, which could result in, say, even a measure of permanent banning the activities of an authorised engineer, but then it has to write, it can't be just like that. Now what's interesting? It is very interesting that Article 38, when it comes to strict liability, is then foreseen. The competent authority, which provides for complaints, shall, for example, exclude the appeal in Article 30 when it comes to obtaining, standing and termination of membership in the Chamber and, in the strict procedure, the conditions for not being able to carry out the work are actually laid down. Therefore, it is obvious that some things here should be resolved and not enough here to say that it is referred immediately to the administrative court which will burden an important court, the more the court must provide reports, memos, etc., the Chamber. We believe that this law in principle can be supported in principle for, in fact, it would be best to convert it into a previous debate of this law, but if not a previous debate what is going for the second reading only has to be important, importantly done because it is essentially an unfinished act that would be proposed for the adoption of the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45216	Thank you very much. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45217	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Foresting and wood industry play an important role in the economic and social life of the Republic of Croatia. In the gross social product, gross domestic product forestry and wood processing participate with 5%. Thanks to the 250-year professional work of Croatian forest experts, the Republic of Croatia has kept its forests natural and stable. Wood is a raw material for further processing and processing that binds a lot of activities to the forest to the final product, such as: transport, fuel production, tools, machines, equipment, shackles, paints, bows, textiles and so on. Ecometric research results indicate that 8 metres of cubic wood raw material from forest to final product provides one job. Of course, high professional work in the field of forestry and wood, wood technology is required, and high-level personnel or legal and natural persons are required to perform these works. Higher education, forestry and wood-technology personnel are educated at the Šumarski and Wood-Technology Department of the University of the University of Zagreb. However, after graduating from the university, they have been trained to carry out professional tasks but not for creative designs, projects of new programs because they do not have experience and passed a professional exam, so we cannot consider them authorized engineers for certain specific jobs. There is currently no legal obstacle to any high-level job being hired by an under-elected expert and without greater responsibility for the quality of the work done. The establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers is expected to introduce order on the labour market in the field of forestry, hunting and wood processing according to the criteria of European and world practice. The chamber is a professional organization of authorised engineers. The activity of the chamber shall include the presentation of i.e. representation, advisory and development function. It promotes the development of the profession. It concerns the specific professional training of its members. He takes care of the Code of Professional Ethics and determines the professional obligations of members. The authorised engineer shall carry out independent and professional activities from his professional territory, but shall also carry out public authority tasks which have been passed on by special law to, from the original state authority to non-state entities. He can design, evaluate projects, guide and monitor the projects performed, perform studies and works. Control the quality, be a court expert and others. He is professionally, morally and materially responsible for his work, and above all he protects the profession and the employer. An authorised engineer may become after completing university education, certain practices in the profession and passed an expert examination. I must point out that by the time we were half of 1946 in Croatia, we had a chamber like this united in the National Chamber of Engineers, and that in 1946, since then, the authorities were abolished, and then we actually lost a transparent solution in accordance with the activities of authorised engineers with European solutions that have been maintained to date and that are very well cared for. I can't trust responsible jobs with some engineer who's done college. When he graduated from college he was only at the beginning of his training. Just as you cannot become a lawyer or notary in Croatia or a man who is responsible for doing business in another profession without some other practice, expertise because finally these people do not want to accept foreign investors as I can point out from my practice because when they come to us immediately ask and ask: where gentlemen are authorized engineers for us to agree with them and to realise certain jobs that, in which they want to invest their capital. They are looking for people who are joined in the Chamber, who are authorized engineers, who can carry a level of responsibility, to be responsible for their work materially through and of course through other responsibilities or to be provided for their work. Furthermore, as I would like to point out as regards certain provisions of the opinion law, we are of the opinion that the proposer should accept the position of the Croatian Forest Society, which is proposed in Article 1, in more detail, of the text which indicates what professional business is of public interest from the activities of forestry, hunting and wood industry which could be carried out independently by authorised engineers and, as it is, three economic branches of Article 2(1), should read: The chambers should necessarily include forest engineers and wood technology that independently carry out professional design, design, production, evaluation, production and supervision of works in the field of cultivation, editing and exploitation of forests, hunting, forest protection, horticulture, horticulture, consulting, judicial engineering, production and audit, professional studies and plans. Controls of projects and professional documentation, construction of devices, selection of equipment of facilities, processes and systems, professional training and licensing of works in forestry, hunting and wood processing and other tasks and tasks in the field, respectively, relevant engineering professions, and for the representation and coordination of common interests, the protection of public interest and the protection of the interests of third parties. The Statute cannot prescribe these powers. These powers must be prescribed by law. The law should regulate the legal form of the office in which authorised engineers work. In our court it should be the office of an authorised forestry engineer or if he is a wooden technologist then wooden technologies. It could be, under 2. It could be a joint office. Under the 3rd project company, under the 4th limited liability company and under the 5th share company. In Article 41, paragraph 1 should clearly establish the obligation of the Minister of the Competent Ministry. It must be known which minister and which ministry. Finally, I would point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law because it is in fact a harmonisation of our legislative practice with the legislative practice of the European Union in which we want to engage and, of course, we propose that this law goes to another reading. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45218	Thank you very much. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45219	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me say a few words on behalf of the HSS Club on the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology. First of all, the HSS Representatives Club will support that this law goes to second reading. For what? Well, first of all, I want to say that in the defence of forestry and wood industry, which today makes one significant part of our country, both from employment and other participation in general and in the social gross product that has already been said today, and that it certainly deserves certain things in this profession to be solved in a better and better way. Today we have a situation that certain jobs here are not necessary to have a professional exam only if you work in state institutions you have to have a state exam while you work in companies of others, and especially in wood industries you don't have to have any exams other than a graduate college. Furthermore, when we talk about this brand, we have to say that the jobs of forestry engineers and their descriptions might briefly be that these are people who do different professional work today, even from many branches. When I set an example to say Croatian forests built, they averaged by, between 300 and 400 km of forest roads, then we say that this forester is a construction engineer because he designs those roads. When we build some buildings in buildings, they're usually designers of these buildings, then they do other parts of the work, meaning some architectural engineers. When we talk about environmental protection and everything else that it is about that forestry has an international certificate for its entire surface of the FSCI certificate, which says that it manages forests according to strict environmental standards. Then it's also those environmental engineers. Therefore, it is necessary for all these jobs that these people are doing to get the same mandated status. The only way to get it is through the chamber and that's this proposal to me seems to be done by modeling the construction and architectural chamber just because it's about other kinds of jobs. Therefore, it is logical for me as a foresteer to try to protect the profession and to obtain a certain status of authorised engineers and thus to work and represent and represent the interests of its members afterwards, and for the register itself, it is precisely said what must be satisfied. It's not just a college degree like my colleague Mato says, but it's also a pass and a state-run professional exam, having three, five or ten years' internship depends on what jobs. It is therefore very important to categorize people who have already acquired certain experiences and then pass such an exam. In that part, I think there's got to be room for what I'm saying. Well, look, today in forestry when you're looking at private companies, they're already working somewhere over 50% of all the services that are being done in forestry today. In these private companies today, no one asks if they have any technicians or engineers at all, but simply have employees and the owner takes care of everything. I wonder if these jobs that these workers do in a professional way, if anyone can even get to know them and how they do it if they don't have an authorised employee or engineer or technician in that company to do that part of the job. I'm sure you don't. Then we witness that we have a lot of deaths in that branch among those workers who are not trained, precisely because there are no certain experts who would warn them of certain problems that may arise during the performance. It's especially to say professions that are very difficult, where there's a lot of suffering and unfortunately they're among the most sufferings in our country. Thus, through this way, you will find an opportunity to be part of the experts standing at the Employment Service today and waiting for their place to work so that they can get a job through these trainings and we will allow them to work part of the job, and in another way we will gain great benefit from them because they will take care that these jobs in particular talk about forestry in a professional way. And it's also similar in wooden technology. Today we are witnessing that in public competitions for the purchase of tables, the chair is the lowest price, and no one asks if this product satisfies any basic elements of the profession, whether that chair satisfies that you can sit on it or, for example, whether we care about what our life will be like after 40 years of sitting in a chair who does such a job. You don't have to have any atheists to do that, and we have experts to do that. Unfortunately, we only look at the lowest price item that often does not meet the conditions of others we should have. So far, there have been no such solutions. Here's what my colleague Shirac said since '46. I think it's time for us to finally bring them back at least in this dam and that, with these remarks that have been made if there are any misunderstandings, I suggest the Secretary of State consult legal experts. Maybe there's a lot of technical mistakes and that's to make it right. And I don't think it's a good idea to stop the bill and not let it go to another reading, but to really leave the possibility of fixing certain settings until the second reading. You know, the easiest thing to discuss is when you want to attack something. I would like to hear in our discussions which are improvements that need to be introduced into this law, so that we can talk about them and see if we can and how we can fix certain settings. I wouldn't owe more in that part. I think that this proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forestry Engineers can also be supported by going to another reading and we expect to bring it in by the new year, that the chamber can be established, that it can start working within what is intended, thus bringing order more in that branch, especially in this professional section, and we will enable and certainly one part of the employment and people who will do these jobs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45220	Thank you very much. Individual debate, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45221	Thank you, Mr. President. I personally support this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology. Although many believe that there are too many chambers in Croatia and that Croatia may traditionally only have those chambers that doctors and lawyers have always had. However, the fact is that, as this law provides, not only is the issue of organising them, professionally above all, but the issues above all and the responsibilities of a particular profession important. The issue of responsibility is a dramatic issue that is raised almost in all professions in Croatia. And on their own, those who are increasingly seeking space in society to act freely. In each of these free actions and the spread of their freedoms, individuals and certain professional associations, it is certainly necessary to monitor with adequate responsibility. That's why I might like this mandatory insurance here the most, the liability insurance for the damage it's doing right now and this kind of activity. It's something that's long been revived in law enforcement, so we see later and at the doctor's, and here's the thing, and if laws are passed, with forest engineers and wooden technology. And there is no doubt, therefore, that there is nothing, that society will not suffer any harm from it, I say, although there are many voices and most often from those who have already achieved their professional association through certain, through their own chambers, as well as architects, but the fact and therefore, the first of those classic occupations by lawyers and doctors were headed by architects themselves. And that we have today after that law, the application of this law better order as well as their own responsibilities, starting even from designing a building or some object to realisation. I draw the parallel equally with this possibility opened by the bill, and therefore on my own and in those other laws of content and material that we will later discuss here I see one support for this particular profession, but also responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45222	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45223	... I've been troubled by a few things about this law that have already been mentioned. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, there was a parallel withdrawn between other professional organisations of similar chambers, legal and medical, so it's said to introduce order into the profession, all true and I assume that the forest profession has the same need. However, I would warn them that unlike these two chambers on which everyone has quite clearly defined tasks for which the license is given, I must say here that it seems to me that performing works in the field of forestry, hunting and wooden technology is a very broad formulation that probably includes jobs for which man must not be any engineer but must be something else, a technician, I don't know what must be. So this seems really wide to me. Secondly, in terms of terminology we forget very often that we have other laws, so here is the law that this Parliament and the Bologna Declaration kind of embraced doesn't quite speak decided titles of forestry engineers. I think it's using another term there, to use a master's degree of expertise, so maybe we should check that terminology to adopt. I still find it problematic that an association which is an association of individuals, which I suppose should have some independent activity, the activity is performed by a regulation pricer for legal persons and that, it seems to me the opposite, and even the constitutional principles of competitiveness on the market and what else you want. Furthermore, it is unclear whether engineers doing specific jobs are unclear to me, it may otherwise be visible, which perform in legal persons of engineering work whether they must have that license or not. That's one thing, I think, a very important question. Furthermore, the code, these are few things that are also not complete logical, conditions for entry into the directory. You say this, so you can't sign up if an investigation is launched, or if they're being prosecuted, say defamation. There's a criminal trial going on, and you can't sign it. So I think it should be said that it is an investigation, or criminal proceedings for one of those acts that makes it unworthy, and not any criminal act. When he stands still in the chamber, I am not sure whether this is when he is elected to a public professional duty whether his membership rests or he via facts some work under those regulations on preventing conflicts of interest simply cannot be carried out. I think maybe you should think about it. It is also to consider whether condemnation to unconditional imprisonment for any act alone leads to exclusion from membership. Does that make sense? Let's say, he made a traffic deal, he gets 6.7 months, and now you're shutting him down and making him come back after 6, 7 months, and he doesn't, in fact, have the right to duck. The same thing in Article 27(1) of point 5 is the same racio, the same logic, no. I must say that I did not understand what this means in Article 28 that a person should not be re-enlisted in the directory if he has written a statement that he does not want to do business. Well, I don't think the general would be reporting for admission if he didn't want to do the job, that seems irrational, right? Then it's unclear why you're forcing a member of the chamber to, if he's making an independent insurance contract, why can't he make a deal for himself, it's not clear to me why you're forcing him to have, in fact, to follow a monopoliestic picture that was created about it. I don't think you've been particularly successful. You say a little tautologically defined that serious injuries will be considered which, even linguistically quite clumsy, will be considered a particular violation of the reputation of forest activity as an independent, violation of the duty of reputation. What is a violation of the duty of reputation and code of professional ethics? The duty of reputation and the code of professional ethics, right. And then you make it easier to define the one that's easier. So it's a little clumsyly formulated. Now there's something that I think is systemic because what you've prescribed as tight measures actually I think you've entered the system, you've violated the system, because what you've prescribed is a fine, the way you've prescribed it, it's actually formulated as a violation. By their weight, they actually correspond to the violations of both the procedure and the subsidiary application of the CAP and the statutes that you have prescribed, so I wonder if it's about the violations or whether it's about the tightening measures. If they're strict measures, I'm afraid that the offenses are actually disguised as a tight measure and that it's something else. But here, so, kind of, also, if you're talking about the right medications in us, there's a common term of appeal, not a call. There you go. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45224	Thank you very much. State Secretary, Final Review, Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45225	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This forest profession law is extremely important. We are here, so in this form and suggested, in particular we believe that through the system of authorised engineers, it will also be through issuing and obtaining licenses that profession will come to a higher level than it is now. This is primarily the task, given that here is what was said earlier in the discussion, the forestry jobs on the ground today are done by various and diverse entrepreneurs without any control, but in any case without professionals who are very important and therefore the accidents and disasters that occur in the woods are very high and great. We simply want to make a single order with this law, also to reduce the black market that comes into play in forestry and all the other unfavourable forms that we have seen so far. Here it was, here's a lot of constructive remarks. I know this first draft of the law is what it is, it's not perfect, it's a lot of useful remarks. So we're going to go to the next reading, so until the second reading, we're going to go through this whole thing, and we're going to figure out how to get that law as high as possible when it comes to second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45226	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology, first reading. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. The bill shall be adopted. All objections and proposals will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find the proposed conclusion passed by 79 votes to 16 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is a draft bill on the protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation. The proposal of the Law on ionising radiation protection in the Republic of Croatia is in line with the document of the International Atomic Energy Agency entitled "The basic standards for the protection of ionising radiation and the safety of ionising radiation" in which the theoretical and implementing principles and criteria and the basis for building the infrastructure for the implementation of measures to protect against ionising radiation should be detailed, as should be established by each country. In line with the above, the European Union has prescribed that its members must necessarily level the level of protection against ionising radiation in accordance with the recommendations of international organisations, and on the basis of the Council's guidelines of 13 May 96 and the addition to that of the Eurotate as of 30 June 97. The legislative proposal provides for an ionising radiation protection measure to ensure the implementation of the principle of justification for optimisation and restriction and the application of security measures. The rules so far set out the measures aimed at increasing operational safety in the operation of ionising radiation sources, preventing circumstances that could cause an extraordinary event and bringing possible consequences to the minimum. However, the rules so far did not provide for security measures to be taken to prevent damage, loss, theft and illegal transfer of sources of ionising radiation or illicit access to the source of ionising radiation, thereby taking measures of physical protection. The new law prescribes measures of radiological security of ionising radiation sources aimed at increasing operational safety in the operation of sources, preventing circumstances that can cause extraordinary events and bringing possible adverse consequences to the minimum. Measures of physical security of the source of ionising radiation to be taken to prevent damage to loss, theft and illicit transfer of source or illicit access to the source of ionising radiation. Unlike the applicable law, this legislative proposal does not contain individual numerical values such as maximum permitted doses to which the worker or the values according to which the radioactive source is classified may be exposed. The proposed provisions provide the basis for further consideration of the protection measures to be laid down under the sublaws. Thanks to new knowledge based on research and experience and increasingly widespread use of ionising radiation sources, protection measures and generally accepted standards of protection are often changed in terms of improving protection and better organisation for the implementation of measures in practice. The legislative proposal in the field of protection against ionising radiation introduces a system of competent authorities and shares the competence of activities in the field of protection against ionising radiation as well as is appropriate for certain countries of the European Union. According to the legislative proposal, administrative services in the field of protection against ionising radiation shall be carried out by the State Department for radiation protection and administrative oversight of the implementation of this law and of the regulations adopted under this law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Health. The inspection supervision of the provision of this law and the regulations adopted under this law shall be carried out by the sanitary inspectors and border inspection officers of the Ministry of Health. The legislative proposal lays down that the authorisation holder is responsible for carrying out activities with sources of ionising radiation for the implementation of protection measures and shall bear the costs of its implementation and shall also be obliged to provide and bear the costs of the disposal of radioactive waste as well as used and closed radioactive sources and sources of ionising radiation which he does not intend to continue to use. The provision of radioactive waste and resources without owners shall be ensured under this legislative proposal by the State Department for radiation protection. It shall also be ensured that, if the costs of disposal at the time of execution cannot be charged by the party which is obliged to bear them, the means to ensure the costs of execution through a third party will be secured from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and, at the cost of the party, the funds shall be returned to the state budget. The proposal of this law is in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45230	Thank you very much. The committees? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, President, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45231	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 30th session of the Committee, held on 5 October 2005, discussed this proposal for a law on the protection of ionising radiation and the safety of sources of ionising radiation. In his opening statement, the proposal's representative warned that from the beginning the use of ionising radiation had an international significance, and an attempt at regulation at international level dates back to 1928. Given the increasingly widespread use of ionising radiation sources, measures and standards of protection are often changed in terms of improving protection and better organisation for the implementation of protection measures. The Committee members supported the need to adopt this law, which is implemented in accordance with international recommendations and standards. In particular, this applies to the intended security measures aimed at the physical protection of sources of ionising radiation. The implementation of these measures is highlighted by committee members, should prevent the use of radioactive sources for terrorist purposes. In order to highlight the importance of implementing these measures, the name of the law itself has been amended and supplemented. However, the members of the board warned that it is unacceptable to law to adopt a whole series of sublegal acts with basic data, key and most important facts and figures and basic sizes. The law must contain data such as the maximum permitted doses to be exposed to each individual resident, the minimum age to be paid by workers working on jobs where they can be irradiated above the regulatory limits. Regulation of the radiation limit and of the age of life for persons who are educated and working with sources of ionising radiation, values according to which a radioactive source is classified, etc. In this way, the Law will identify key data as a legal framework, and the rules and other sublegal acts will elaborate them in more detail. The decision given to the Head of the State Department for radiation protection, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, shall not be held by the members of the Board by a good solution. As the Ministry of Health is carrying out administrative supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this Act and prescribed under the Law, in the opinion of the members of the Board, this Ministry should also adopt regulations and other sublaws. The State Air Protection Office is a regulatory body which, among other things, is responsible for carrying out radiation protection operations. After a brief discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation is adopted. Secondly, all comments and proposals, the opinions expressed in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45232	Thank you very much. The Committee on European Integration, Spatial Editing and Environmental Protection? Marko Širac, a respected representative on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45233	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection has examined the proposed Act as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, especially in the section relating to the disposal of radioactive waste and spent closed radioactive sources. The opening representative explained that the proposal for a law harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Special attention is paid to the storage and disposal of radioactive waste as well as to the protection of people working with sources of ionising radiation. It is noted that specific standards of physical protection of the source of ionising radiation are incorporated into the text of the proposed Law in order to prevent their use for terrorist purposes. The debate noted that the conditions and arrangements for the disposal of radioactive waste should be prescribed by the Government as this would give greater meaning to the disposal of radioactive waste. It is therefore proposed to amend Article 42(1) by saying: "conditions and arrangements for the disposal of radioactive waste, used closed radioactive sources, sources of ionising radiation which are not intended to be used further will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Central Authority responsible for radiation protection, and with the agreement of the Ministry of Health. In relation to the proposal, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of Article 58." It is pointed out that the disposal of radioactive waste without owners should be declared as an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia and subsequent amendments should be made to Article 43. It is also proposed that, due to the frequent changes in the name and jurisdiction of the Ministry and the central authorities of the state administration throughout the text of the Law, the name "State Department for radiation protection" is changed to "Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for radiation protection". After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals, opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for the Law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45234	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45235	Dear Mr. President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us one of the very important laws that regulates the problem of ionizing radiation, the problem of power from the source of X-rays, alpha, beta, gamma sources, cosmic radiation. And the problem was updated after a terrorist attack after the New York Tower, and then the International Atomic Energy Agency decided to recommend to its members the stricter conditions for the transfer of transport and storage of such dangerous sources. We must say that Croatia has submitted to all international demands by two agencies since 1993. It is the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and the CRP in New York and the World Health Organization. And already that year, in 93, we founded the Department of Air Protection in the Law. And in the following years, we have brought a series of measures that really stand at the very top of radiation protection in world legislation. We have established a list of all sources of radiation, we have established a list of all persons who work professionally with radiation, we have committed dosimetry, we have established a record of dosimetry for all professionally exposed persons, both monthly, yearly, and life-long doses of them, surveillance of all devices, etc. Now, following the International Atomic Energy Agency's recommendation, there was a need for certain changes in the existing law. The legislator opted for a new law instead of amending the law so far, so it takes a little more extensive consideration of this new law. Matter is so important that it can't be compared to many other laws, and that's how we saw it in the past days when the International Atomic Energy Agency and its director Al Baradai won the Nobel Prize. That was three days ago. It's precisely because they're fighting a battle to direct this energy to the peacetime, and they're preventing it from being used for war or diversional purposes. The law ahead of us is said to want to meet two new conditions. One is to tighten the laws on the preservation of transport and handling of radiation sources that have been successfully carried out here in this Law. However, the second rule is, we consider it to be a broader debate, as already mentioned in the speaker, which is that in fact no size, no dimension, no dose, no specifics is determined in this Law, but that everything is left to the rules. So I think it's a little paradoxical situation that a law that has a 50-ac article has 29 regulations. In other words, every other article, even more, determines the making of a rulebook. This corresponds to some European legislation, but not to ours. In our legislative system, it is common for basic sizes to be determined in the law, and then by regulation to work out those that are of, say, second-rate importance. For example, in the Transport Safety Act, or the Speed Safety Act, speeds are determined in the Law, not in the Regulation. Well, we've got 0.0 alcohol spills in the law, not the rulebook. That's why we think that here we should put basic sizes in the law that don't change so quickly, but they change every couple of ten years. This is primarily the maximum permissible dose for the entire population, then the maximum permissible dose of the risk of exposure of professional staff that hasn't changed in 30 years, then it was changed 4, 5 years ago to 20... And I'm sure they'll stay that way for the next 10 years if they don't. The Law should also include basic guidelines for those entering the radiation sphere, which will be professionally engaged in ionising radiation, as well as provisions on what kind of education will be, or how much radiation can be exposed to students who perfect themselves for one of the professions that will be professionally exposed to radiation. In this way, you would give a stronger foundation to these basic guidelines, then you would develop those guidelines that are of little importance. We also believe that these regulations should be passed by the Ministry. In this system of hierarchicals, which was proposed by this Law, there are some minor illogicalities. Our legislative protection system in this area has been perfectly accepted by the International Atomic Energy Agency, but we have been objected that we do not have a system of responsibility or a pyramid. Now she's made, the top of the pyramid is the Ministry of Health, which is logical and normal, and in the Ministry of Health is the opposite of the original idea, the Ministry of Health has retained inspection supervision and legislative activity. The institution that is established should carry out all activities on protection, should conduct the profession, international cooperation and, in our opinion, propose a minister with a resolution, and here are three ministers, the highest minister of health, one part the Minister of Defence, one part the Minister of Finance, propose the text of the regulation and then adopt it, we think that this order of government would be I professionally and legally more regular and justified. It should also be said here that a law enforcement office cannot attribute the price of its services to itself, so in Article 48, we suggest that the amount of compensation of all the procedures that will be implemented by law in the supervision of this law as well as in the operational conduct of its service, not to determine the amount of compensation itself, but to the rest of the ministry. We also find it illogical that the regulations are passed by the Director of the Institute who will comply with these rules, which is another reason why it would be more logical to have them brought by the Resolute Minister and the Director is responsible for their implementation. In addition to these objections, the main feature of this Act should be highlighted, that it is modern in line with the requirements of the World Atomic Energy Agency and the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as demands by the World Health Organization to represent a significant step in improving our ionising radiation protection system, and we believe that it should, in addition to these remarks that can be corrected by second reading, be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45236	Thank you very much. The HNS PGS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45237	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Secretary of State. Let me briefly state the position of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorsko-Gorskian Alliance on this bill. When I say very briefly, then it is for a very simple reason, as a member of the Health Committee, I voted for what was stated on behalf of the Health Committee as presented by Professor Turic and I think that the conclusions of the Health Committee were unanimously made, what the promoters should do, so those who will prepare the text for a second reading take into account and accept as observations that are in place. The second reason for the exceptional shortness of speech today is the fact that I should express the views of our club after Professor Hebrang, who I am free to say here more as a respected professor of radiology than a spokeswoman of HDZ, and then it is not difficult to agree with him because he expressed everything that is clearly seen at first sight and what is the lack of this bill. We can agree and agree on the exceptional meaning of this Law, meaning in general because ionizing the global problem after 9/11 has become dimensional entirely in one other light and it is certain that Croatia as a country that is involved in the Western European club state must absolutely adhere to all the listed associations of ICRP, WHO, the World Agency, or the IA EA for Atomic Energy, are listed. Of course, the measures of action that El Baraday's IA EA has brought are what must be applied to us and there is no dispute about it. However, we are really holding as already in the debate that such a principled law and this kind of principled area is not what we need, we hold that some 26, 7 or 28 sublegal acts and regulations that will then be required to adopt something that can in general alter the essence of the law, because indeed if in 64 articles a single area is processed, if after that we are supplementing it with 28 sublegal acts or regulations then the question of who will have insight into all 28 regulations on their essence and the meaning that there will not be any tendencies of law in this important change. That's why we think and we really hold that, that I'm not counting now, but some of the maximum allowed dose for the population, the maximum allowed dose of radiation for people who work professionally, the provisions that can be exposed, who can't, in terms of age, in terms of doses, then the activities for which they are exempt from supervision then, another whole series of things should be prescribed in the law as I have so far been we think that this will make the law more quality, and reduce the need for sublaws and preserve the essence of the Law and after the second reading. So that's one of our remarks. Secondly, what we absolutely hold, we hold that in the extent to which sublegal acts should be brought by the minister, namely, some sequence of legislators, if we are in this House legislators if, on behalf of our government, it is an executive power, and if it is the minister who is the conclusion of such an important area, the director or director of a state agency or the central office should not be the one who brings but the Minister of Health, it is our concrete remark. Otherwise we absolutely advocate the maximum high level of protection and we advocate and accept the concept that an institution that is outside of the Ministry but absolute surveillance and must be the last of the ministers. Now, that's what we absolutely hold and we think that, like I, every other law actually in the first reading, there's no reason not to be accepted and supported, but we think that the observations made by the board and in the debate should not only be brought forward for discussion, we think that in this specific professional area, these remarks that have been very reasoned and by the committee and by the debate, the Proposer would have to adopt and make a law that should be complemented by this why we have shown that he is missing and with the affirmation of the role of the Ministry and Minister in the adoption of sublegal acts and control of the entire system that will be outside the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45238	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want any more? I'm sorry, so we're done with clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right. Ms. Representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45239	Well, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I would say that for the last time in a decade, our legislation has been continuously harmonized and new achievements have been built in, and expertise and scientific knowledge, according to international and recommendations and standards. The Croatian Parliament is also in March of '99. In October 2003, we adopted the Law on protection against ionising radiation, and we adopted amendments. So I would also say that when it comes to the application of certain legal provisions to a medical worker as well as to diagnostics and treatment devices, and I believe that this issue is satisfactorily resolved and that, in our activity, it is mostly done. I'm talking about health check, personal radiation measurements, medical examinations. But the use of nuclear energy for military and civilian purposes, then a number of nuclear tests, regardless of what exists on them, the protests, but also the increasing atmospheric pollution of radioactive substances, then several extraordinary nuclear accidents, are still in our memory, although 20 years ago the disaster in Chernobyl whose consequences we felt ourselves. Then there are numerous reports on the health consequences of routine use in medicine, in therapy and diagnostics, and for medical staff, but also for patients. All of this is, it encourages different research into the adverse effects of ionizing radiation on the life and health of individuals, as well as their offspring. In the process of joining the European Union, and in order to adapt existing legislation, requirements and standards of the Union, this proposed law, which we are now discussing, which is regulated issues of protection against ionising radiation, and an increasing desire here is also being placed on the security of the source of ionising radiation, acting in extraordinary events. Security measures to be taken to prevent damage, loss, theft and illegal transfer of source of ionising radiation or unauthorised access to the source of ionising radiation. After these terrorist attacks in New York since September 11, 2001, this has become a very important issue. It is prescribed that measures of physical protection of radioactive sources should not be used for terrorist purposes. It is also prescribed to monitor the enforcement measures against ionising radiation, all with the aim of ensuring and reducing risks to the lives and health of people, the environment, for the present and future generations. Particular attention should certainly be paid to compliance with international standards, especially with basic standards for protection against ionising radiation and the safety of the source of radiation. This bill, as we have heard in previous discussions, does not contain certain numerical values such as maximum permitted doses that may be, exposed workers or populations, and activities for which individual sources of ionising radiation are excluded from supervision. Of course, given the increasingly widespread use of ionising radiation sources, then protection measures and general acceptance and standards of protection against ionising radiation, are often changed, in terms of improving protection and better organisation for the implementation of protection measures in practice. This question, here, is proposed to regulate sublaws, rules, which would certainly be simpler and more practical, perhaps easier to implement. However, it is also said that the regulations are adopted by the Director of the State Department for Air Protection, with the agreement of the Minister of Health. I fully support it here, I think it's necessary to change it, that it means these regulations are still brought by the Minister of Health, and that the State Institute, for him, is to control the implementation. So, I fully support everything the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Professor Andrija Hebrang, and also the opinion of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. To point out once again, it means that regulations are passed by the Ministry of Health, and the Institute is in charge of carrying out radiation protection activities, and more issues are regulated by law, and that fewer issues are regulated by the Regulation, because it is indeed one extensive material that needs to be compared and controlled all together. However, regardless of all this, since there are significant and positive developments in the law, it is in line with the European Union's gains. I support its adoption in the first reading, and I expect the Proposer to adopt all these remarks that we have made in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45240	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45241	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us this proposal of the Law to protect against ionising radiation and to protect the source of ionising radiation. So, the title itself says that the bill respects some new moments and actually expands the activity of the first law, i.e. the volume of jobs, that it is now being transferred to sources of ionising radiation, and this is dedicated to a whole segment of the law. So this part of the secretary of state said to prevent manipulations, so to predict all security measures to protect sources of ionising radiation from possible terrorist activities, especially terrorist activities. What is mentioned in the introduction and what has been seen so far in the debate is that the Croatian State paid great attention to this problem of ionising radiation and already the first Health Protection Act of '93. He predicted the importance of the segment, so the Department of radiation protection was established as the State Institute he from all six other institutions and that it was '96. in the year when the European Union developed its first guidelines for radiation protection, we are '99. also passed the Law on protection against ionising radiation that some changes had experienced in 2003. And since after 2001, after 9/11, it has been shown that there are exactly the dangers of terrorism particularly expressed, then it has also been approached to agree with these new guidelines of the International Atomic Air Protection Agency, so that we too can adapt our laws to these new trends. And that's why this law is so engrossed and predicts all these possibilities, especially the suppression of these manipulations possible. It is foreseen that all these affairs, care is run by the State Department for radiation protection and it has about 20 powers listed in the law. What has been said so far in the debate as an objection to the proposed text of the law is that the powers of the State Institute are too great, that it cannot and can not adopt the rules and exercise control of the same and that the proposal which the Health Committee has also made is good, that the State Institute makes proposals and that the regulations are passed by the Minister. What is also acceptable and good and what I will do in this debate join such requirements, that more numbers must be entered into the law, therefore those permitted maximum and minimum doses, because it should be in the law. To narrow down the number of regulations preferably, 28 of these sublegal acts are foreseen. So, if the mains of these regulations were to be introduced into the law, I would say, in particular, about the figures and that the Minister of Health, or that the State Institute was merely making a proposal and that the regulations were still passed by the Ministry. Therefore, until the second reading, there is still plenty of time, and I hope that the Proposer will respect all these remarks that will be heard later in the debate, especially those given by the Committee on Health and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, where it is particularly important to take care of who is taking care of waste management when the owner is not known. So, it should be an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia, I absolutely support it and I think that all these remarks we have heard and that will be heard that the Proposer will respect and that we will have a second reading so quality that we will be able to adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45242	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45243	I don't know anything or very little, but I do know something about a misdemeanor. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] So I ask you, if you can accept that you do not speak in violation of the provisions about how the inspector at the scene will punish you at the scene. Why? Because this is the system matter solved in the Law of Infractions and if you standardize it in this way you have formed one lex specialis which will then prevent the regular conduct of the procedure in case this punishment at the scene fails. So, whether you or not wrote an inspector can always punish the perpetrator of the offence at the scene, so here's my recommendation really to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45244	Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want it to be final? Here you go. State Secretary Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45245	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So on behalf of the promoter, I thank you for this debate because the comments and proposals made in this debate in nature today do not essentially change this legislative proposal but rather make it constructive and we can say in some part of the better, and on behalf of the promoter, I believe there are no major obstacles not to accept proposals, suggestions and remarks on this law which will be referred to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45246	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45247	Proposal for a Law on protection against ionising radiation and security of the source of ionizing radiation, first reading of P.Z. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The bill shall be adopted. All objections and proposals will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour, one abstention accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45248	We move to - Proposal for a Waste Management Strategy of the Republic of Croatia The proposed strategy is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 8. The waste law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Doctor Nikola Ruzinski State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45249	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. This is the waste management strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted under the Waste Act and is an integral part of the General Strategy for Environmental Protection, becoming an integral part. The basic content of the strategy ahead of you has three important chapters. This is the first description of the existing state of waste management and waste management in the Republic of Croatia. There are further guidelines with the concept of waste management. And it's finally an assessment of investments that are significant throughout this entire system. The foundations of the strategy are defined first and first by reducing the volume of waste that goes to the dump. The reduction in waste volume will first and foremost be solved by the management of everything that represents useful waste, which is a useful raw material that is extremely valuable to go into the recycling system, especially by collecting such packaging waste as we started already, electrical, electronic waste, car tyres, paper, batteries, batteries and all that can be recycled and what is now imported into certain segments as waste, useful waste as useful raw materials. Today we import large quantities of old paper, large quantities of glass fractures and huge quantities of this waste when it ends up at landfills that are not even arranged but are extremely burdened only by packaging waste in volume more than 30%. The second thing, therefore, is to build regional or county waste management centres, apart from reducing volume and using a special system of collecting and using useful waste. Thus, the reduced number of dumps to be found in the Republic of Croatia. Today, every municipality, every city, and even those places that are not a municipality, have their own landfills that are not arranged, and we first need to resuscitate them. We need to resuscitate to shut them down. So the value of their, the duration that will be used is somewhere in the size of another five, six years and then they would move to the use of regional or county dumps. Today, a large number of dumps are already in the process of recovery. This is through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which has concluded recovery contracts for 163 dumps that are official but unregulated and 40 wild dumps. Big money's been invested. Some of these dumps are already being rescheduled today as can be seen in several cities and remain in the design phase, in the preparation phase for recovery. The strategy is, by all means, considering the introduction and the basics of how it will be resolved. However, what I said earlier, the county dumps themselves will be resolved in such a way as to create either regional or county landfills of up to twenty, twenty-one landfills should be in the future in the Republic of Croatia, with a view to predicting that there will be a smaller number of landfills because certain counties have already agreed today on a joint construction of a central dump, which will significantly reduce the cost of investment. Investments are not small, it is a major investment, in an average county dump only a dump without additional special equipment will have to be counted from around 30m to even 50m euros. In addition, as one particular feature, I would single out the fact here that this strategy provides for the closure of all landfills on all islands. So no dump in the future should be on the islands. There will be some station transfer and recycling yards, especially on larger islands, by reducing the volume of waste that will be delayed and driven to central dumps in the counties. The same strategy provides that new technologies, modern technologies that will further reduce this waste volume that will end up in landfills and we, as far as municipal waste is concerned, are to assume that the implementation of this waste strategy will amount to around 20% to 30% of today's volume. With... The strategy is primarily linked to the avoidance of waste, in general to the management system, of the general principles of the hierarchy of waste management and of the objectives and measures related to the avoidance of waste, the specific system of selective collection, therefore, but to the preparation in the risk reduction system and the resolution of specific waste types such as hazardous waste and all types of specific waste which are not practically processed today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The strategy has given quantitative objectives, therefore, through the year that the procedure, i.e. the percentages of the reduction in the amount of waste that should end up at organised landfills and the whole strategy has been done by 2025. Guidelines have been given, a waste management organisation for all institutions. What may be particularly interesting in this strategy is an assessment of investments, as I said at first it is about extremely high investments. The overall assessment for the overall waste management system according to this strategy is estimated at 3.25 billion euros, in line with clear European directives and global experiences. It's money we don't have and we have to organize it in such a way that it's funded from several sources. It is foreseen to be financed from public and other sources, therefore, from the State budget through the Environment Fund and through county and city budgets, municipal and urban budgets. It's part of the public funds. As another source are commercial loans, it is again funding through the system, the public system, but we are counting on more important assistance from the European Community, we have already started with the first projects, including pre-accession funds, it is ISPA funds and we have not yet received a decision but we will most likely start in Sibenik with the first serious project, co-financed, or seriously co-financed with solid money from the European Community. So the basic concept is such that the dump will be publicly owned, therefore, owned by local administrations and self-government and the other part of the technology and waste management should be turned towards financing and clearly late management from private sources where we would try to organise one of the forms of a combination of public and private ownership, such as through public private ownership, through concessions, various other segments, but thus we could provide a sufficient amount of money in due time to close the complete waste management system. The next step behind this is to develop a waste management programme that we predict will be completed within 6 months, that it will be completed by the spring of 2006. This programme will specify exactly every location, in every county, every project, every station transfer and everything that will be related to the waste management system so that it can go into construction, financing, tendering. Mr. Vice President, that would be mostly this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45250	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. Mr. Ante Markov, Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45251	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. At the 24th session of the Committee held on 28 September 2005, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a waste management strategy for the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by an act of 8 July 2005. Introductory presentation on the strategic objectives and measures to achieve the proposed waste management strategy of the Republic of Croatia, as well as on the activities already undertaken in this area, Mr Professor Dr. Nikola Ruzynski. In the discussion held, the Committee on Tourism took into account the fact that Croatia's attractiveness as a tourist destination and its perception of the country's preserved environment and the production of healthy food is one of the fundamental factors of strengthening our country's position and visibility on the international tourist market, which is based on faster development. This is the importance of the proposed waste management strategy of the Republic of Croatia and its effective achievement is one of the assumptions of the quality development of tourism. The debate supports the strategic objectives of achieving a sustainable and functional waste management system and highlights the importance of promoting partnership and the cooperation of all factors in the hierarchy of this system. In doing so, it is important to support the organisation of the provision of professional, technical and financial assistance due to investments in modern waste management technologies where waste is created and also to support the setting of local, regional and county waste. The debate also outlined the following opinions. That, starting from the priorities of waste management, it is necessary to highlight as one of the priorities the need to deal more quickly with major management and waste management problems on Croatian islands. How, where appropriate, economic and other instruments are necessary to ensure that the population of those islands does not come into an unequal position with regard to waste disposal prices compared to those on land. Second. It is necessary to secure the funds immediately to access and continue the rehabilitation of existing dumps and the removal of wild dumps in tourist areas. Third. In order to support the concept of separate waste collection at the source of origin, taking into account the large amount of cardboard, glass and plastic packaging produced in the provision of catering services. Fourth. That the introduction of pollution and waste monitoring should be considered not only in marinas with yachts and boats in nautical tourism but also for the monitoring of waste resulting from anchoring yachts and boats outside the organised ports of nautical tourism, thereby introducing high penalties for the said form of pollution. The debate also supported the strategy proposal and expressed a high level of quality of preparation of the document. Well-established strategic objectives and well-developed measures to establish a functional waste management system. The opinion was expressed by Mr Jaksa Marasovic, who believes that the proposed strategic objectives of waste management of the Republic of Croatia are not well set and that there are no criteria in line with which the number of regional and county waste dumps is determined. On the basis of the debate, the Committee supported the proposal for a majority of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45252	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Mr. Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45253	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the strategy on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 83. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the Ministers for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction explained that the strategy was adopted on the basis of Article 9. The waste law is an integral part of the national environmental protection strategy. She announced that the government of the Republic of Croatia's strategy will bring a waste management plan in the first quarter of next year. The minister also reported on the course of the 163 dump in co-operation with the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund with local self-government units. For the next 5 years, the recovery and closure of all waste dumps and the construction of 20 regional waste management centres are planned. No more than 1 in each county, with no permanent dumps on the islands. The strategic objective of the proposed strategy is to make maximum use of valuable waste properties, which will stress the development of industry and private entrepreneurship and employment in the sector, and ultimately reduce waste to a maximum of 20% of today's quantities. The implementation of the measures is estimated to cost 3 billion kuna. The State Secretary of the Ministry presented the proposed strategy, which is being introduced, which introduces a new approach to waste management, separation, evaluation and disposal or short term "IVO". The strategy also comes from the principle of wage polluter, including importers, and a new Regulation on packaging waste has already been adopted in this respect. The presentation shows so far-recovered dumps with visible significant progress in dynamics and recovery methods. The debate, which followed by all the members of the Committee, assessed that the strategy was a quality and professional document with well described current conditions and measures which should undoubtedly lead to improvement. In principle, it was pointed out that the adoption of a waste management plan should lead to a broader debate involving economic, ecological and economic organisations in particular. The biggest difficulties in implementation according to the assessment from the debate will be financing since the biggest burden will fall on local self-government units. It is therefore desirable to include as much as possible in the implementation of the private sector in particular in the section relating to separate collection and recycling of municipal waste. According to some Committee members, part of the proposed strategy on municipal mud is insufficient. It is proposed that this part of the waste management plan be elaborated in more detail despite the fact that waste water treatment is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy and Croatian waters. Most Committee members support the view that islands should be free of waste disposal while some fear that large, populated islands with developed economies would result in a significant increase in production and utility services. It is proposed that the ministry launch educational, marketing actions in the media and separate educational institutions to raise awareness of waste. The need for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a waste management plan as soon as possible is stressed because it is an implementing document. The need to implement the editorial text before the official publication of the strategy, the text editorial to update it, has been observed. Point 1.3. The legislative framework, the last paragraph and point 2.36 of packaging waste, paragraph 3. as those parts state that the rules on packaging and packaging waste are in place or are in the process of adopting the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste. Namely, the regulation was adopted after the proposal for a strategy was submitted in the parliamentary procedure and was published in "The People's Newspaper". After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a waste management strategy for the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also proposes to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: The Croatian Parliament's professional service is authorised to carry out a draft of the waste management strategy for the Republic of Croatia, together with the representatives of the promoters, before the publication in "National Journals". Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45254	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By considering this waste management strategy, it should first of all be concluded that no specificity of the Republic of Croatia alone is actually growing in Europe and in the world of waste. Of course related to the way of life, related to technology and that in fact the world is not only facing Croatia's growing problem of waste management. With us, of course, it is still built on our unregulated waste management system and of course puts it in front of Croatia especially in these sensitive times when negotiations with the European Union begin a special problem. It is absolutely certain that one other than agriculture will be placed before Croatia probably the biggest problem of environmental protection, and in the protection of the environment, waste management in terms of building up the legislative framework, and we can also read this from the European Union's "avis" which gave a positive opinion that Croatia can be a candidate for the European Union where the issue of environmental protection and waste management is particularly apostrophe. I believe that the problems facing waste in Croatia are not only a question of lagging behind, funding gaps, inability to finance but also of underdeveloped and adequate public relations, citizens, economies, units of local self-government towards waste. So not only is there a lack of concept but it's simply a public perception that we can deal with the waste on a very arbitrary basis. That is why this strategy was necessary and I will say completely unpretentiously that it is one of the most important components of raising the quality of life in the Republic of Croatia, as well as success in negotiations with the European Union. Of course I'll talk less about what I agree on than about what I disagree about. The concept itself in terms of "IVO" as it is said briefly in terms of avoidance, evaluation and disposal of waste and the principle that the polluter pays and that everyone has to solve and take care of their waste are actually fundamental, the basis of this, this strategy that I hold absolutely must be supported. Waste doesn't come from itself. He certainly comes from our concern or carelessness. By processing technologies in daily life, we can create more or less waste. So one of the main elements of this strategy is avoiding waste generation. Whether in households, whether in industry, you in any way. So the public climate must be created by avoiding waste generation. Waste is not just waste that is useless, it can be used for energy purposes, it can also be used as secondary raw materials. So this aspect of waste evaluation must, in some ways, be understood and accepted through this strategy and through the enlargement of the legislative framework. And the waste disposal is actually just the part that hasn't been used, the concentrated waste residue that actually needs to be placed on some permanent dumps, regardless of its origin. The conditions for this strategy to really be one of the most important strategies, I dare say it is one of the better documents that we have considered in the strategic sense in this House. There are several conditions for him to really be. First of all, these strategies should encourage the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament to build up the legislative framework for waste management, to take place as soon as possible, and today we have heard that the waste management programme will probably be delivered for about 6 months. Which is a very optimistic deadline and in fact only through the adoption of a waste management programme will we be able to definitely evaluate and evaluate this strategy which some things have not explicitly highlighted. Of course, one of the conditions for this strategy to be what we expect it to be is to increase investments that are absolutely insufficient so far, but I dare say and remove some shortcomings in this strategy itself. Of course, each of us, depending on what he does, where he lives, and what is his priority, will highlight other shortcomings in the strategy. I have chosen only one detail which I think is really unnecessary in this strategy and which, as I said on the Committee itself on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, I believe should be upgraded. It's the communal mud, so that's the rest of the public sewerage that stays on the purification devices. I understand what has led to this underestimation of municipal mud, because there is, in fact, a certain duality between the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy and Croatian waters on the one hand and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, on the other. But regardless of that duality, we can't in any detail, and even in the management of communal mud, we can't stay undefined, as we've stayed so far. Namely, what is it? Often, it is public perception of us, but also of our guests, whether it is our rivers, lakes, seas, ports, ports, etc., regardless of what it is, most often through this sensory, sensory perception, whether it is smell, cloudy water or something else, we are actually experiencing through insufficient disposition of waste water, insufficient treatment and insufficient management of these communal muds. So let's try, I'm going through very, through this material to do a very short analysis of just this aspect of waste management. On page 27, we have frantic almost data that has almost nothing to do with this strategy, except as a basis for the strategy, which actually leads to Croatia living in some times perhaps 30, 40 years ago, as some modernly decorated countries live today. Today, just a little over 40% of the population has a public sewer. So 40% of the population has public sewerage, and 76% of the population has a connection to the water supply system. That's actually constant data. Of course this is not the subject of waste management, but in a certain correlation and joint work in the government, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and the Ministry of Construction and Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, this problem must finally be solved. So let's take a look at that data. That in certain counties, for example, a water supply network has 30 percent of the population. In Bjelovar County, 31% of residents have a water supply network. In the City of Zagreb, for example, it's 96%. It's actually the data we need to worry about. Of course, by raising the number of households and industries that are connected to the public water supply network and to public sewerage, therefore, the problem of municipal mud will also increase, especially if we succeed in building purification devices. One illustration, one little math game. According to our statistics last year, 256 million cubic metres of public sewerage were created in Croatia, so the contents of public sewerage. If everyone had a public sewerage and had been used at that level as it was used last year, we would actually, just to understand what we're talking about, it would actually be the amount that would have run through Zagreb for 30 days a year by concentrated sewerage. So under the quotes "clean sewerage," that's how much it's worth. This quantity should certainly be adequately treated. Unfortunately, however, at this point, we have the fact that out of these vast millions of cubes only 100, only 74, 75 million are treated and most often only mechanically, and at least biologically or in combination very little, and 171 million cubic meters are released directly into the ground, into lakes, into water streams or into the sea. And that's why I'm talking about this problem because it creates that public perception of both us and our guests is actually whether we're clean or dirty. How many little lights, little marinas, etc. on the Adriatic where actually from the smell of sewerage, because it is released directly into these bays or in those ports, you can't actually live. That's why, I keep, this problem, regardless of the ingenuity of one or the other, this problem is simply underrated. I don't even recognize it, I don't even recognize it in quantifications, in quantitative goals where there's a whole series of hot tables, showing how it happens in the world. But, say, on page 45 of the quantitative targets for waste, there's no communal mud anywhere. Turns out, actually, when we talk about junk that we're only talking about municipal waste. I think the smallest problem is municipal waste, it's more or less solved. You know what to do with it, you know what to do with it. There is a way to build up the legislative framework, to create habits for separation, separate collection, etc., not to talk about it again. But I would like to see here, you know in this table, which is the strategy of the Republic of Croatia, within what time will it have 90%, how much water is being cleaned from public sewerage today, when Croatia will reach that level and how much of those 90% of purified public sewerage waters will, for example, be distributed as fertiliser to fields or burned or otherwise used. So that's where we come to the issue of managing that part of the waste. How are we going to use what we call communal mud? That's why I'm stressing once again, since really in none, not even in special measures, even in waste-flow activities, I don't actually find a place where communal mud can be placed. And that is why I think it would be good for this secondary problem in waste management to be strengthened here in this strategy and given greater attention regardless of this dualism between the two administrative entities precisely because this sensitive public perception of management and this type of waste actually raises what we really want some public reputation of Croatia as an ecologically clean acceptable country in the world. I notice the same problem at the end of the part where you talk about possible investments in the coming years, which are not small, they are terrible. The question is whether this dynamic is going to be able to invest. That's almost 3.5 billion euros, that's a lot of money. But even in those means, I see a great proportion between avoidance, evaluation and waste disposal. Of course, the biggest problem is to build certain facilities, so delay, but I don't think we should even ignore avoidance and evaluation in that financial plan. They are represented I would say with modest means. I'd only ask one thing on behalf of the HSS club. What I said in a critical sense about only one segment, in a similar way, we can also talk about waste in agriculture and forestry where, unwarranted with huge quantities, it's as if it's waste. The straw is not a waste, straw can be energy. Mugs don't have to be waste, they can really be used to fertilize the land, etc. So I think we could talk about a lot of these details. However, regardless of these remarks, I believe that this strategy is very good in principle, that it is really the moment when waste management programs are developed, when we find enough financial resources to finance everything that is imagined here, that we will be able to say that we have an extremely good strategic document. And that's why the HSS Club will accept this strategy, and we simply leave it to you to possibly put these remarks into the strategy, because I think it would be impractical to try to fix the strategy with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45256	Thank you, dear colleague Tomcic. On behalf of the Cube of HDZ, dear colleague Marko Shirac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45257	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this presentation, I would like to point out that, according to the HDZ Club's assessment, this strategy is methodologically very high-quality. The purpose of the strategy is to establish a framework within which the amount of waste produced in the Republic of Croatia will be reduced and waste produced by sustainable masters. The strategy regulates the long-term management of different types of waste in the Republic of Croatia, from its creation to its final delay, by aligning overall waste management with the general principles of the European Union with the provisions of the Waste Act and the principles of sustainable development. The creation of this Strategy, in particular in the selection of measures to achieve a quality waste management system, is in line with practice in the European Union and with our specificities. Therefore, the idea of waste management in the Republic of Croatia rests on the so-called a non-depositary concept that tends to be an ideal. In order to achieve it, it is necessary to close the circle from the avoidance of waste generation, reduction of quantity and harmfulness, recycling and... to the exploitation of inert waste. The strategy includes an assessment of the existing state of waste management, basic objectives and measures for waste management, guidelines for waste use and disposal, evaluation of investment investments and sources of waste management financing in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2025. It is therefore very high-quality and then well-worked. In the opening part of the Strategy, the promoter points out that waste management is the biggest individual problem of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. Not only is the legislative framework not in line with the standards of the European Union but the rules in force are not implemented. Therefore, considerable funds and efforts will need to be invested in this sector in order to bring the acquis into line in the European Union. In the assessment of the current situation, the Proposer of the Strategy points out that waste management problems in the Republic of Croatia are particularly pronounced and that the critical situation in most units of local self-government, especially with the management of municipal and dangerous waste that endangers the environment and human health. 281 dumps were registered at which 34.5 million metres of cubic waste was deposited, but over 3,000 wild dumps were also registered. The organised collection of municipal waste covers only 65% of the population of Croatia. Waste in the sea from ports, marinas, ships are not collected or taken care of on land at all. A total of 13.2 million tonnes per year in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. less than 3 tonnes per capita per year, have been estimated. The financing of waste management does not correspond nearly to the needs. The identification of new sites for waste management is not reached by agreement between local self-government units, there is no systematic education and public information. So that's the state we live in and how we treat that problem. In the last 30 years 100 million tonnes of different waste has been delayed in the Republic of Croatia. For the first phase alone, 200m euros should be provided. The example is in Zagreb where 410 million kuna was invested for 7 million tonnes of waste for the construction of a sanitary dump that lasted almost 4 years. More significant actions on the recovery of existing landfills began in 2004 with the start of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which participates in the cost of recovery from 30 to 50%. According to the plan for the disposal of deposits for the period 2005 to 2003 should be invested, 161 landfills should be arranged and 2.5 billion kuna invested. In addition, the Ministry of Environment Protection, together with the units of local self-government, is preparing investment programmes for the environment that will finance EU pre-accession assistance of EUR 30 million for the period 2005 and 2006 and after the completion of those programmes, will continue from pre-accession funds. The objectives and measures for waste management set up by this strategy? Based on the analysis of the state and vision of the sustainable functional waste management system, the strategic objectives of the implementation are defined to ensure the strengthening of the waste management system and its functioning in order to protect human health and the environment and the rational use of resources. In order to gradually reduce waste pressure on the environment and human health, conditions must be met to ensure a reduction of waste production, reduce the quantities to be delayed and reduce the risk of waste. The strategy therefore sets out the following strategic objectives. It is certainly in the first place to avoid waste generation and to reduce the amount of waste at the source itself, and waste to be delayed with the material and energy use of waste, etc. Other strategic goals are listed. The achievement of these objectives can only be achieved by a gradual multi-year process in line with waste management plans. The strategy also sets quantitative targets that determine the dynamics of achieving strategic objectives with appropriate time limits in 2005 to 2025. By 2025, the organised collection of municipal waste should cover all the population of the Republic of Croatia and the quantity of delayed biodegradable municipal waste should be reduced to 20% to 30%. The use and recycling of waste would include 40 to 90% of the quantities collected. This must build 4 regional waste management centres, 20 county centres and, of course, in the City of Zagreb and... all existing dumps that would be completed by 2025. In order to achieve these objectives, the strategy is proposed by general and specific measures, and based on the objectives and measures set, the concept of management is proposed, which is reduced to the name of the IVO, i.e. avoidance, evaluation and disposal based on a reduction in the amount of waste to be permanently delayed and which will be inert to minimise the environment, climate and human health. The selected waste management concept is applicable to all waste streams, and guidelines for 15 priority waste flows are described to allow for the approximation of European regulations. And waste management in the Republic of Croatia, according to the proposed concept, would contain the following. Gradual organisation of waste management centres with processing and disposal facilities. Gradual resolution and closure of most existing dumps. The ban on the disposal of waste on islands and the construction of cargo stations with separate collection, recycling, embalming of waste and transport to land centres. Special protection of water in the karst area from the possible penetration of spring water from dumps and other buildings. Prevention of wastewater leaks to sea and lakes, rivers, etc. It is very detailed that everything that should be done on the basis of the selected concept is listed in the next period. In order to implement the planned activities of the strategy, it is necessary to draw up a plan of management by waste management of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 4 years, which will be carried out by the Government and based on it by the County and the City of Zagreb, and cities and municipalities will also develop their waste management plans. The assessment of the necessary investments for the implementation of the strategy over the coming years is 24 billion kuna or 3.25 billion euros. The estimated sources are state and local budgets, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, with around 50% of the resources, and other sources are domestic and foreign origin with about 50% of the resources. The adoption of the strategy and management plan by waste management of the Republic of Croatia is triggered by changes that will gradually solve existing problems, improve the system and direct the Republic of Croatia towards sustainable waste management and integration into the European Union. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this strategy. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45258	Thank you, dear fellow Shirac. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, respected counterpart Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45259	Honorable Vice President, Honored Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say that the SDP Club supports the adoption of this strategy. We believe this is one of the important programming, strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia, especially with 2 aspects. One aspect is, of course, the protection of the human environment, and another aspect is the approximation of the European Union. However, in addition to those words, therefore, it is necessary, above all, for the citizens to say what this Strategy is carrying. As regards the state of the human environment, that is, how we as citizens influence our environment in Croatia, it should be said that this may be the most distant point from which we should draw close to the European Union. Therefore, according to European Union standards, this may indeed be the furthest place, and we will have to do the most about the issue of protecting human environments, and we will have to invest individually the most money. This strategy predicts that over the next 25 years it will be necessary to invest at least, as these are only harsh estimates, 3 billion euros. If all other activities and other investments that will need to be invested in the field of protection of human beings are added to this, then to meet the standards expected by Croatia in the European Union, an investment of over 13 billion euros will be needed. So this is one huge money that is certainly not in the state budget or in the national budget projections, or in some funds that are possible here in Croatia, such as the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, or European pre-accession funds. Because it's certainly easy to say that we're going to get some money out of pre-accession funds, but for that we should certainly prepare very good projects and know how to write very good documentation, tenders, and therefore we should vote for those funds in pre-accession funds. Comparing with the efficiency of withdrawing the funds of some other countries that became members of the European Union just over a year ago, we can conclude that between wishes and expectations and what is truly achieved is a large, large proportion. And my predecessors said that one of the foundations of this strategy is that the pollutant pays its negative impact on the environment, that is, its pollution by human environment waste. What does that mean exactly? This means that whoever manufactures the waste will have to pay for his care, so here in the strategy says not only care but also certain preventive activities. But then or after that, it should be clear to the public that some services, utility services, some services on waste disposal will increase widely. Prices are going to go up a lot. This, with such a fact, was the first, almost drastically confronted citizens of Zagreb when a wastewater treatment device was built and when they became aware that the device was not a waterworks but that the device cost. So he costs because he needs to pay off the investment and it costs because some people work there, because that's where the energy is spent. And finally what was asked here as a question needs to be taken care of after that purification. So all of this here in the Strategy will ultimately pay very likely citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Each kilo or every ton of municipal waste that will be taken care of in the future will cost significantly more than today's citizens pay for the disposal of domestic waste as coloquially said, as it is impossible for the management of a ton of municipal waste in Croatia to cost less than the disposal of a ton of municipal waste anywhere else in the European Union. And a ton, the supply of a ton of municipal waste in the European Union ranges between around 24, 25 euros and up to 70,80 euros depending on some parameters such as distance, transport, etc. So our citizens must be aware when we operate on the settings of this strategy that they will have to pay significantly more for what we are very much treating today as social policy measures. Protection of human environments and waste management can no longer be clearly measures of social shallowness but will be part of the market economy. That is why there is such a great interest above all foreign capital to enter this area, but as other areas of foreign capital did not enter because it loves us or because we are beautiful to it rather than because it has calculated that it can make profit there, so wherever foreign capital enters the area of human environment protection, it wants to profit from it, and that means that the price of service will be significantly higher. What is good is that this strategy particularly emphasizes the role of education and education because I think that in addition to what we need to do in the field of investment, therefore creating the assumption that the biggest job we need to do in the process of education and education that our citizens understand from the earliest legs, unfortunately our children are much more aware of the needs of selection, even affecting their parents to accept selection, so our citizens must be aware that the only thing that can really not be used is to go into the trash bin and that everything else should be put into place and used in a useful way either in recycling or in other ways that can be used and that should really be done a serious step but not only by the Ministry of Environmental Protection but also the Ministry of Education should take great steps in this area. We have recently raised awareness of citizens and their need for waste selection. Unfortunately, however, apart from some urban environments, our citizens cannot use such a possibility, even in large areas our citizens cannot satisfy their need to select old computers, they cannot satisfy their need to especially delay old televisions, or, say, the Styrofoam, so all of this, and even here it says, even where it is moved to a recycling yard then ultimately ends up at the disposal of municipal waste where then the disposal of that or the recovery of it costs a lot more. Therefore, it is necessary, particularly from the state level, to stimulate units of local self-government, and citizens, above all, in a way that separates waste, units of local self-government to create assumptions for selection from green islands to recycling yards, so that indeed citizens who have such a need can therefore separate waste. What concerns us, and what we could read here in the strategy, is that only about 3% of the batteries end up in a recycling yard, or especially is taken care of, which means that 97% of the batteries in Croatia today end up at municipal waste dumps. Batterys are dangerous waste, equally bad or equally catastrophic situation is with batteries. So the batteries also end up with a large majority at municipal waste dumps, but there I expect the Ministry to do what it did by making a bold move by bringing a regulation on the handling of packaging waste, simply saying at some point that you can't buy a new battery until you bring the old battery or the dealer can't sell the battery unless he dumps an old battery somewhere, or that you can't buy a new battery unless the one that sells that battery is going to give you the old battery back and make sure that this dangerous waste that we don't perceive as such today ends in places where it will be properly taken care of and not end up at waste dumps. Of course, our goal is to reduce waste, it's going to be a little difficult to achieve that goal to be without dumps, because that means we wouldn't have any waste at all, and nobody in Europe and the world has been able to do it today, but to reduce it to maybe 20, 30% of the current amount of waste, I really think we'd all be satisfied. And perhaps in the strategy, however, we should define the difference between or define that, besides regional waste dumps or county centres, there will have to be some kind of collection sites, assemblies because our counties are so geographically designed that from one end of the county to the other end there are over 100 km, and there is really no economic justification for driving to a regional dump or to a county centre with that garbage pick-up truck. So, that every major unit of local self-government will still have to have some kind of collection site and then this assembly will have to hold a selection, that it will have to do the compression of what remains and then transfer to a temporary or permanent dump, where this concept raises the question of whether we have permanent landfills or what we have today as permanent dumps are permanent until it is determined that such permanently delayed municipal waste must be taken care of in a different way. Unfortunately, we have a situation today that we have units of local self-government that know how to find a solution, they know how to resuscitate their dumps, they know in their spatial plans to determine where city, county or regional dumps are going to be, but you have examples where we don't have the ability of local self-government units like Varazdin, who's been there for two years, simply doesn't find a solution to how to solve their problem of municipal waste, so they've now found a solution that they've bought a compressor that's embalming them and where these bales are putting them in a very inappropriate way and the question is only days when the problem with these bales is going to happen, or the question is where with those bales at one moment when they're too many. As for county centres or regional dumps there are indeed agreements there, one of the agreements is from north-west Croatia but the agreements are stuck at the time when the principle that no one wants trash in their backyard is applied, and no one really wants to install a regional waste dump in their county's spatial plan. You even have a problem in some counties that do not want to install a county location for waste disposal centres and there is an obvious question of how to resolve the conflict between the autonomy of local self-government that brings spatial plans and will not make it a legal obligation to provide space for the disposal of municipal waste. What we should also be concerned about at this point, and see how to stimulate and stimulate it, especially when reducing the amount of waste is, for example, organically decomposable waste. We have a situation today, not only to import old paper, as was said or the glass we need in production, which we are fortunately in Croatia, and old paper, I must tell you, there is a factory "Hartmand" that 95% of its production exports outside of Croatia. The total amount of old paper collected in Croatia is being processed, imported more huge quantities from the European Union and then exported afterwards, so it is even an organic product. But today we import compost, gentlemen, for flowers, for jars, for transplants imports compost, and that huge quantities of organically decomposable waste ends up at municipal dumps or what the strategy here says that agricultural and forestry waste is simply, in my opinion, being used inappropriately by burning. So here, too, it certainly needs to be encouraged to turn the biodegradable waste into compost at as many locations as possible and then make another export product out of it. What we're proposing to the government to do, and what we see as a lack of this strategy is that we don't see inside a question or a problem of nuclear waste disposal, so we're asking whether that's what we're planning? And if that's not planned, then we ask that it be installed, if it's planned to be defined as well. Secondly, to match investment tables where it is said that by 2005, there will be 3 billion 250m euros, and then 74 pages define the plan, as regards budgetary financing by 2015. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45260	Thank you, dear fellow Mršić. It is up to the respected colleague Kramarić, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, DC and LS. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45261	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues from the ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues. None of us from the club LS, DC and HSLS would have been happier if we had discussed a strategy like this in the Croatian Parliament 20 years ago. Unfortunately, however, that is exactly what shows the position we are in, and it is good that this strategy came here in 2005 and that we can manifest ourselves against it. The fact that in recent years the Republic of Croatia has passed a number of regulations, starting with the Waste Act, the Environment Strategy, which refers to waste, its effective care, the environment and quality of life. This strategy is indeed a step further in the treatment of waste in the Republic of Croatia and offers certain solutions to its management. It also covers the most important aspects, and this primarily includes an assessment of the existing situation, measures for the management of ordinary and hazardous waste, and guidelines for the use and disposal of waste. It is uncontestable that Croatia has many problems due to inadequate management and disposal of waste. There's, when you're fluctuating in strategy, when and when you're actually suffering, you have, when a few dozen years ago you thought that actually one quick and uncontrollable industrialization would solve all of our problems. This rapid and uncontrolled industrialization has brought us what we have today and what we have to sort of do as quickly and as easily as possible. But that recovery certainly will be very expensive and it is very important that we tell our citizens right now that what is actually waiting for them, that this is going to cost a lot. We also often witness protests by environmental associations that point to environmental threats and potential dangers from pollution of groundwaters that are precisely due to their quality and quantity of our priceless national wealth. Although legislation in the Republic of Croatia regulates the issue of waste management and it... For a while, it has not yet achieved its primary purpose, and this is certainly the disposal of waste with the ultimate goal of effective management of it. [[You don't understand.]] In particular, regular attention is paid to the disposal of hazardous waste of all categories, and there is no reliable data on its origin. This should highlight the problem of medical hazardous waste, which is not properly taken care of, and only some types of such waste are taken care of. The waste is even delayed today at almost all landfills, regardless of the identified hazard category. This presents a really serious problem, taking into account our hydrogeological specificity, which is also a violation of easily permeable territory that also allows for groundwater pollution. There is no need to talk about any problems at sea. The estimate that about 13,000 cubic solid wastes and 24,000 cubic polluted water and bilge from ships into the sea is really frightening. When the waste is added to the sea from land, it is obvious that it is necessary to protect the sea, an imperative to which we must devote ourselves in haste. Therefore, it does not have to surprise us at all that the project "Adria" here is really a spectral project and did not get the given light and obviously still shows that consciousness has changed significantly after all. I belong, I don't think I'm a very old man, but I remember that in schools, and we learned from serious academics that one from 30 years ago and over, that litoralization of our Adriatic coast is something that we need to devote ourselves to, because now from that litoralization, the Bay of Kaštelan, remains Bakar, remains Plomin and a whole series of precisely these black points that, I say, it's still not clear today how we're going to resuscitate, and in any case they don't represent that visor that we would like to watch in Croatia. Croatia still has a number, so-called "wild dumps", which the problem is only further potentiating. According to available data, there are more than 3,000 such dumps, and we can be sure there are more. It is also no secret that many of our streams, canals, cuttings, and forests are turning into manual landfills of the surrounding population, and the result of such irresponsible behavior is increasingly occurring to us in the form of floods due to the impenetrableness of streams and canals. And today, just when the 1st point of the agenda, when we talked about this, about the recovery of elemental accidents, then we mentioned these objective circumstances, which just show that our people are relatively sensitive to the problems of mobile, mobile networks and it's not about how much it costs, but when we need to separate exactly for irrigation, for paying contributions to those water supply, then there's a whole series of problems, there's a very different relationship, and they don't understand exactly that because of these accidents that happen, we're getting more expensive at the end and more painful. It is a difficult task standing before us to address the issue of waste, which is inefficiently managed, and an additional difficult circumstance is that it is mostly delayed at unregulated landfills. Of course, such ancient warfare in our area only makes it even more difficult to solve this truly great problem. It should be pointed out that most developed countries have an effective system of management and processing and green and kitchen biowaste, but I say to us that, as far as I know, only two urban areas in the city of Zagreb are being implemented. Our goal is to develop ourselves as a country where healthy food is produced, which offers tourist destinations with an unpolluted and preserved environment, and which offers healthy life to its citizens and their guests, creates this additional obligation to approach this problem with full responsibility and awareness. The fact that this issue will certainly be negotiated with the European Union, which has high standards on environmental protection, I am just saying that we are even more potent in the issue and... The necessity of his... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] resolution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But again, we have to say that we have to be honest with our citizens and say that it's going to cost a lot of money. In particular, the European Union's focus on avoiding as much waste as possible in production and separating it from economic growth. The use of economic instruments, e.g. eco-taxes on products and processes that have an intense impact on resources and waste is also effective in reducing production, i.e. incentivising investment in so-called ‘investment’. clean production. The identification of the most problematic and most dangerous waste streams such as packaging waste, batteries, electronic household waste represents a significant lever in the European Union in the fight for a cleaner environment. The number of guidelines and many others on which the fight for a clean environment in the European Union is based will now become our guidelines for which we will also have to be uncompromised in this place. I'm saying, it's a shame that such an argument didn't take place 20 or more years ago, but it's never too late. It is obviously not an easy task in front of us, because other than the infrastructure that should be in the function of environmental protection, which is now insufficient, it is also necessary through measures and penalties to encourage the responsibility of the polluter manufacturer to actually systematically take care of the disposal of its harmful waste. Likewise, we ourselves need to build an ecological consciousness because all of us must be responsible for the environment at all times because it is the only way to preserve it for future generations. We all certainly remember not so long ago the pollution of river streams that led to the sea of fish and threatened the ecological stability of the entire area. A good part of the pollution came from irresponsible individuals and clearly showed that we are an irresponsible person can endanger large areas of a healthy environment. So it's not enough to have good legal norms, but we have to say to encourage this ecological consciousness, and it's good that this process of sensitization for these problems begins as soon as possible in our education. It is precisely for the stated reasons that the LS, DC and HSLS support the basic principles laid down in this strategy and, in particular, the one which prescribes that the pollutant pays the full cost of waste disposal and in the recovery after the damage has been done, it is certainly not negligible nor a question of funding programmes and waste management plans. We have seen that only these ten years from 2006 to 2015 will grow three times with 50m euros and some million euros will reach almost 160m euros. Obviously, significant engagement is expected both by the county and local authorities in terms of the adoption of waste management plans, the collection of waste data, the determination of locations in spatial plans and the like. The same thing my predecessors talked about. Very often we actually face the problem that waste has but when it needs to be placed somewhere then actually all of it raises hands and you simply can't find a suitable location, even when it goes through all of those procedures and those testing very often these things turn into one even political act, so then you actually have if it brought one set then another set of things sabotaged it by definition or simply creates one bad perception in public. I'm saying it's also possible to stimulate with so-called. The eco rentals that will make local self-government units realize that it is an opportunity to earn and hire people and that it certainly paints a dump that is unfortunately still dominated by Croatia, that it should be transformed into something completely different over time. The proposed strategy I say gave us a complete picture of the problem of the waste issue and in it... And that catalog of waste with its subtypes where I really say we have to say that as a club, we're satisfied with one of these strategies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is much better than the environmental strategy that was brought three years ago even though we also accepted it because it is also not possible to work without it. It is possible that we at the club think that these measures to achieve the goal are counted as good but that some of them may be too ambitious at this point, so it would not be good to finally get a counterproduct and in some ways you should really see what's real. So, you have to be ambitious, which is real, but kind of in a way that we're going to do these exact measures that we're going to take. And what is very important and this shows in your strategy to say the water supply situation in Zagreb, in Istria is at a very high level, and let's say that you have a county like Bjelovar-Bilogorska where it is really below each civilization level and that clearly one government would have to lead one policy that will have a selective approach and that it would really understand that those areas that are lagging behind right now should encourage them and catch the same rhythm with these areas, regions, cities, units of local self-government where some things are already solved in a satisfactory way. And this is exactly the end point. The LS Club, DC and HSLS will support this strategy but what we must say will also be closely monitored by its realization so that we do not only stay on our good wishes but rather complete as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45262	Thank you, dear colleague. It is on behalf of the HNS Club of PGS, a respected colleague, Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45263	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! It's so much said here that I don't know if it makes any sense to talk, but since Ante Markov called me, I'm still gonna have to talk. Because I'm in favour of this strategy because it's better than none, and that's the first good thing. If you don't mind, I'd like some suggestions on the strategy itself. This is a very serious problem that has been projected here with 24 billion kunas, slightly more than 24 billion kunas or 3.25 billion euros, I think in advance that this is an underrated question of what's gotten into it and it's certainly going to require bigger money. I must also say that the deadlines set here, which is twenty years old, is 20 years of projection, I think too long, and it is likely that our negotiators with the European Union will get the roast immediately or have agreed already at twenty years of age. It seems to me that Mr. Secretary of State has already agreed but that we will try to cut it down. But I would have some suggestions through certain examples. Therefore, in Chapter 4.2.1., municipal waste, the problem of the island should be more vigorously highlighted. In fact, you know it's on every island that's inhabited by God save what the dumps look like. So each island would have to be solved and solved as an integral part of a superfluous system that functions on the right part of the land because every smallest island is big enough to produce waste but our largest island is too small to pay rationally by law, on the law based on waste management. The municipal waste must be processed, part must be returned to production and part biodegradable must be broken down. Stay... It's just going to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On no one of our islands there is enough waste that can pay for these procedures in rationally acceptable relations, best and cheapest on each island have one cargo station and with a large moving container in a particular dynamic total... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] transport to the mainland at the county center or regional centre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This claim has been proven by accounts and I own those accounts. Another suggestion that seems even more important and more powerful. Chapter 4.2.1. of pages 56 and 57 of municipal waste and Chapter 3.2. of page 45 Quantitative targets are listed county centres 20 + 1 as a level of solution to the problem of municipal waste. Thus, the County framework is defined as the lowest scope of the procedure provided by so-called. the critical mass, or the number of inhabitants who can pay for a rational solution. Generally, this is an extremely good solution compared to today's solution. Today you have about 3,000 legal, semi-legal and wild dumps in Croatia. So if you go to 20 plus 1, that's a clear universe relative to this state today. But there's an account, there's an account that we know that only counties with nearly 500 thousand inhabitants must provide a truly right rationally acceptable solution in financial terms. Small counties can't do that. It also suggests that more counties together solve the problem by regional centre, however, time is left for this to be achieved, time and arrangements are left at local level. If county centres are built, they are not expected to be shut down in an apparent time to organise a regional centre instead of several county centres. This will depend clearly on the ownership structure of not only local politics. So the county centres are an extremely good solution to the current state and the real solution is the regional centre. I will show you through an example of Dalmatia that has 4 counties, close to a million people in four counties, of which is Split's half, so, close to half a million people. And when they produce, then, those four counties, slightly less than 300 thousand tons of waste per year, Split is about half, because per capita, that's how it is. About one 60 square apartment with an average four-member family produces one ton of waste. That's the equivalent of that. And when you count, for technology, mechanical biological processing at the level of a single center, the county center, for each county, this is your data. For Zadar County, it would be 62 euros per tonne of school or waste, or this municipal waste. For Sibenik-Kninska 62 and slightly more, Split-Dalmatia 43 euros and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, which is at least 68 euros. But imagine if one regional centre were created for all four counties with an average price, it would be slightly lower than 30 euros. There's a bill for this, and we can talk about everything. The account shall include, in particular, a party to the costs of remote transport. Within each county, the cost of loading stations was entered, therefore, mentioned by Mršić, the transport cost from local to county cargo stations, and the transport from the county cargo station to the regional centre. Total this cost for all counties has been used. This means that for one ton of waste brought to the center's doorstep, everyone pays the same thing regardless of mileage. Clear plus center work. This is important, this principle of solidarity is important because there is no solution without it. This principle of solidarity is both in electricity and in water and in many other municipal services. And that's why it's important to have that cheap price, otherwise some will never solve this problem. From this data that I have presented, it is apparent that the price, at the price, is the most positive fact of increasing the amount of waste that goes into processing, so the amount of that waste that goes into processing is more important than the cost... The transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the way, I have to say that by building a regional center, he would have, say... The centre for Dalmatia could be the capacity equal to that of the Split County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You just don't have one-way work, you have two-way work. Instead of eight hours, 16 hours. So you're reducing the investment in half and these other three counties are such, such an industry half your capacity. And there's one important thing. It seems to me the most important in terms of our population's psychology. It's a lot easier to solve the problem of one location than four. I don't mind in Split either. In the same chapter of the strategy in the processing of county centres, the data on technologies, infrastructures and facilities on which county centres are established are well listed. The mechanical biological processing is a fundamental technology that is suggested for the county centres and I think that suggestion is correct. The thermal treatment of municipal waste can only be considered in Zagreb and its territory. All other counties have virtually no amount of waste that would be directed at this technology. The mechanical biological treatment of municipal waste results in four exit factions. The dry fraction in the amount of 50%, the wet fraction, which is biodegradable, is converted to a steady state of 33% of the total mass. Metals 3%, inert waste about 14%, dry faction or so on. The RDF has a composition that I won't read to you but the energy value of this dry faction is at least 16,000 kilojut per kilogram. The amount of dry factions from all four Dalmatian counties at energy value substitutes 53,000 and 100 tonnes of mazut. 53 thousand 100 tons of magut. This dry fraction is separated from municipal waste properly mechanically processed, depletion can be used as an alternative energy in two places: in the cement industry and in small thermal power plants. The world’s cement factories also use so - called cement factories. alternative energy to reduce production costs. There are clearly more alternative energy. Here, however, it advocates the use of alternative energy which is obtained as a dry fraction from municipal waste depleted in... RDF in the ovens... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] it is added to so-called. Sinter zones where the smoke gas temperature is 2,000 degrees, so there's no dioxin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Burning in this zone is extremely good all that is organically burning right now. The ash that is by product binds to the clinker. There is no need to clean up smoke gases other than standard purifiers for... cement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This technology is without the rest. It doesn't reduce the capacity of the stove. It doesn't reduce the quality of cement. It doesn't make it difficult to run a technological process. This solution is best and should, we should find a way for the cement industry to agree to cooperate. The state can do that no matter who owns the cement. Let's not forget this is the best ecological solution, and it's the most economically profitable. Small thermal power plants, in small thermal power plants from 5 to 20 megawatts, can also be used to use this in order to release heat after working in a steam turbine can be used for other purposes. The investment value of these small thermal power plants is around EUR 0.8 million for one megawatt. For some 113 thousand tonnes of RDF, it should be calculated with the capacity of a small thermal power plant for about 10 megawatts, which would give 70 million kilowatts of electricity annually. The price of such a windscreen-based thermal power plant would be around EUR 55 million. Gas treatment within the EU standards of the process remains about 6% of the ash and about 6 and a half tonnes per year in our case. It must be delayed in the sanitary dump. So that's something that's worse than what we said in the cement industry. I deliberately stress this because the strategy said that 4 energys for 4 regions would work, for 4 regionals, for 4 regional dumps. I only need this in Zagreb because Zagreb must accept dangerous waste. And dangerous waste at the country level, and in all these three regions there are cements. About the wet fraction or biodegradable part of it, I won't be filling your head too much, but I will let you know, you'll let me go, Mr. Chairman, that you still have some suggestions for conclusions that I would ask the secretary of state to respect and that we might do something in that sense. The first conclusion should therefore be: the state should find a procedure and a way for the cement industry to agree to use a mechanically improved dry fraction and the RDF from municipal waste as an alternative energy as well as under the conditions of collection of that service. Secondly, if the cement industry does not accept the use of RDF as an alternative energy then small thermal power plants should be used. The small thermal power plant RDF is the capacity that belongs to those who use so-called ‘RDF’. renewable sources, which means twice the energy value of the energy produced in the classic sources. And "stable" as a by-product, this is very important, use, as a by-product of the use of mechanical-biological treatment technology in the treatment of municipal waste must be, to get treatment depending on the content of heavy metals. It should be classified first in 3 classes. For example, in three classes as in Austria but it is necessary to define the limits of the content of heavy metals in the stables above which the stable must be put off in a sanitary dump. We can't, and we don't need to have the most unwise regulations in Europe. So as far as this part is concerned, I suggest that the most rational solution is a regional centre in Dalmatia with four counties. Regional centre in Rijeka for the Primorje-Gorski Istrian County. The regional centre for Slavonia with, uh, treatment of dry matter at the Nashica factory. Clearly this is in, Rijeka is in Plomin and Dalmatia, Split-Dalmacija in Dalmatia cement and Regional Centre for Northern Croatia and the town of Zagreb with a waste burner or even better than a thermal power plant that is clearly more rational than a combustion plant. If it doesn't go to regional centers then these county centers should also try to heat the center of all, the dry fractions go to these numbered power plants Of course, in those centres that I mentioned, any regional or county problem needs to be solved by globular waste. [[Intruder: Time.]] That's what Mršić mentioned, I think. Electrical, electronic waste, car tyres and parts of old vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45264	Thank you, dear colleague, I'll take another 5... /... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. My colleagues and colleagues have expired time for an individual, application for an individual debate on this subject. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Walter Poropat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45265	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Given that the strategy to protect the environment of the Republic of Croatia and the National Action Plan on the Environment has found that inadequate waste management is the biggest problem of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia at the institutions of the Republic of Croatia system is to put this problem as one of the priorities in finding solutions with the provision of funds, knowledge and new technology. We cite this because the problem of waste management will take great proportions unless significant shifts are made spotlessly. The unregulated waste management system is negatively affected by the environment, water, air, air, climate, human health and the plant and animal world, and in particular the emphasis of drinking water as one of the fundamental national resources. The adoption of the Waste Law has taken a significant step towards the start of a real solution to this problem, but also the start of harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of waste management and I hope that the process will continue to be adopted by the end of 2006 by the end of the implementation rules and documents. I also consider the vision and priorities of waste management, which are defined as a national priority in the Strategy for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Croatia. The idea of waste management in the Republic of Croatia as so-called a non-depositary concept that seeks as an ideal should surely be welcomed, but its achievement would require the closure of the circle from the avoidance of waste, reduction of quantity and harmfulness, recycling and recovery. Do mechanical, do biological, do you energy? Until we take advantage of the internal remains. Of course, the same would be the prerequisite for permanent education, education and education of all citizens and the participation of citizens, I underline the participation of citizens from the initial phase to the realization and finally to the management. So by education and education, we influence our awareness of the need to avoid waste generation as a priority in the modern waste management hierarchy and no less important separate waste collection. It is very important that the public's view of waste is realistic and that it is changed as such because it is mostly negative, resulting in an hostile or dissuasive attitude towards the location of buildings and waste management facilities, which at this point is nothing new. Namely, there is no systematic education of the public, the administration, I can say neither political structures nor employees in waste management jobs. We are facing a situation where waste and waste management are perceived as a problem, but not in their own, but not in their own, but in others they must solve under quotes "someone else", someone else and everyone is saying, of course not in their own house, or not in their own backyard. So, let me go back. Yeah, the junk needs to be solved, but not in my house. This is why conflicts, including politics, bickering and not counting appear almost regularly in addressing the problem of waste and achieving sustainable development. Because there are different interests, often conflicted by even state bodies, units of local self-government, economics, associations, professions, politics, public texts, etc. The activities of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund under the landfill recovery programme and the Environment Protection Agency itself, which sets up a waste database, i.e. a landfill cadastre, are certainly what needs to be supported. It is also important that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, together with the Environmental Protection Fund, has in many cases been able to assess decisions, documents and technical documentation made on the ground from environmental impact studies to local and building permits, and that funds from the Fund are directed to those who have recognized and started to address the problem of waste. I cite the example of Labin and Labinstein as a positive example in this case. Finally, given the legislative regulation and the proposed waste management strategy, I want to believe that the process of education, education and waste management will accelerate to the overall benefit of the Republic of Croatia. And we at the IDS club support the general guidelines of this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45266	Thank you very much, dear colleague Poirot. There's a respected colleague, Zdenka Chuhnil, on behalf of the National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45267	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minorities Club supports the adoption of this strategy. Croatia has opened a European door, and to pass through that door we certainly need quality strategies, as the waste management strategy certainly is. However, inadequate waste management is the biggest problem of environmental protection in Croatia. The waste management system works badly while the amount of waste is growing at the same time. Croatia still does not have complete scientific research that would indicate how much soil, air, and especially groundwaters that make up important drinking water resources, and how much this endangers human health and the whole world. Croatia must certainly have two objectives, reduce the amount of waste and sustainablely manage the recycling, regeneration or recovery process produced, which includes this strategy. Since responsibility is both financial and technologically passed on to waste producers, the wage producer must today be interested in choosing the best technologies with as little waste as possible. Croatia already has good legislation in this area today, but unfortunately insufficient implementation and compliance with regulations and standards, and control of conditions still, waste management is still lacking. Certainly without planning at all levels, without a high level of regulatory intervention and without the use of economic instruments, waste management policies will be difficult to implement at the price of the tax introduced. Because taxes and taxes can only become a powerful tool to guide waste streams, but not solve them. From everything, it has to be defined, but it also raises awareness that part of the waste can be recycled, part of the waste can be biologically processed, burned or delayed. My colleagues used to talk about municipal mud, municipal waste, batteries, batteries. Don't mind if I stay at the agricultural waste because in total 13.2 million tonnes a year, it accounts for 7.1 million tonnes or almost 55% makes up agricultural and forest wood waste and I don't think that the problem in this strategy is covered enough. Out of 9.5 million tons of extremities and livestock, the annual half ends up as organic fertiliser, the other half, unfortunately considered waste, which means almost 4.6 million tonnes a year. Because very small quantities, i.e. it says negligible quantities go to the production of biogas. While Austria today has 150 biogas plants of which 120 are installed on farms, 10,000 kilowatts of electricity, we do not even have developed sublegal acts to use renewable energy sources, as well as insufficient levels of knowledge and information of citizens, energy consumers about the well-being and benefits of using renewable energy sources. They did not adopt acts that would prescribe the conditions and method of using renewable energy sources, classify plants that use renewable energy sources, and in particular determine how and encourage the production of energy from renewable sources and also evaluate it on the basis of economic, energy, technological, and here, above all, environmental parameters, because we are talking about 4.6 million tonnes per year. Why am I stressing this? In its White Paper, the European Union prescribes the obligation to use renewable energy resources and, most importantly, finance such installations, but only where it is entered into the strategy and where it is a priority when using pre-accession funds. It would not be good if biogas were left out as bio- diesel was left out of the programme just because the ministry would not write much or, and this Parliament did not, Parliament is not allowed to decide what is priority for pre-accession funding and what is not. I therefore stress that this strategy should certainly be defined in the management of organic waste and biogas plants in order to be able to use funds from pre-accession funds to address this waste. Another problem is the waste of animal origin, which can provide modern technologies with more quality than the proposed care in the strategy. Of the 120 thousand tons of such waste, the clown, animal origin, all of it is processed with us by 78 thousand tons while 42,000 tons ends, which on municipal dumps, which is scattered in nature and which makes the sources of infection, means water, soil, air. The Republic of Croatia has only one open-type filery and four smaller calories. The Strategy cites the need for at least three open-end facilities for the heat treatment of animal waste and the possibility of classification of waste, as well as the need to build cooling facilities. The strategy of this type should also provide for new technologies for waste management, which are in the first place in America today and which have been adopted by the European Union under EC No 92/05. It is alkaline hydrolysis where luminary waste is treated, soaps and organic solution are formed suitable for microbiological degradation, which has been good either as raw material for biogas or in anaromic conditions as good organic fertiliser. If we consider that incineration ensures maximum efficiency, but on the other hand, the high costs of resuscitation of its own emissions of harmful gases, on the other hand, that the kafilarium treatment should result in the production of meat-bone flour which, due to the problem of bovine spongeoform, encephalopathy or better said cow madness, must be re-suscitated by burning and which we in our budget each year provide resources that could be better targeted in another direction. Alkaline hydrolysis is certainly an alternative method of incineration for the recovery of cloonic waste, destroying the BSF's prion, can be built less even mobile units using decomposed waste, as I have already mentioned, and it is necessary to install this strategy because it has been verified by the European Union. In order not to turn out to weigh American technology, I have to say that the same technologies used our grandmothers at the time to produce soap, but today in the developed world, with the modernisation of the number one technology plant, because it is carried out in a small space, it takes small resources with the possibility of being almost in every municipality without polluting the environment fully involved in sustainable development and the problem is being solved on the spot. I therefore propose that the proposer consider also the possibility of installing this method of waste management, as well as prior biogas, our important place with the disposal of organic waste and, above all, the waste of animal origin, so that we can run and receive funding from the European Union. And once again, I stress that the National Minorities Club will support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45268	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to propose an addition to the agenda of this two-point session. One is the Proposal for a resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. The resolution was adopted today by the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament to monitor and monitor negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The second is to give consent to the Decision on the transfer of 7% of INA shares to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the agenda? There isn't. Thank you very much. The completion of the agenda has been established. Now we'll continue with this point and work until 7:00. There are many more reported there, and then, after 19 hours of interruption of the session tomorrow, we would continue with this point again and interrupt it at half 11 if it is not completed, it will likely be but if it is not completed and we will discuss this motion for a resolution that we have just put into the agenda. There is a full consensus through the National Committee of All Parties, there will be a clear general debate on this, but there should be a unity of the Croatian Parliament on these important issues of Croatia's accession to the European Union so that the debate starts at half 11 to be fully secured and the public. It's your turn now. HSP representative club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament... Shall I wait for Mr. President until the people who came for the vote leave? Putting it into the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45270	As long as people leave?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45271	Yeah, well, I think they're going. ... While Mr. President's chair is not working out for me, when you are, Mr. Vice President, then... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. So we are actually discussing a very important strategy, which is the strategy of waste management of the Republic of Croatia at the time of Croatia's approach to the European Union, i.e. the launch of negotiations in the atmosphere of starting negotiations with the European Union, and it is certainly a unique opportunity to make one significant progress in the field of waste management and to establish different sustainable systems that will also not require excessive costs. Unfortunately, I am afraid that all of what we are and my colleagues are predecessors on behalf of clubs and what I will say will not come across many echoes in public, and it is indeed something that has a significant impact on the life of every single person in Croatia and I can say that it also has a significant impact on those generations that come behind us. But we may soon be aware enough that with more attention and consideration we are discussing this subject, perhaps the moment when a typhoon is sent down and unfortunately, and in these areas, then we will have more consideration for this subject. In any case, the draft strategy here, which is ahead of us, clearly states that avoiding the creation and management of waste is not only the management of what we reject but also the preservation of valuable natural resources and energy so that the challenge facing Croatia is not only the avoidance of waste production but also the use of useful materials such as, for example, that remain in building or forestry waste, which has already been mentioned here, and which so far ended mainly on dumps with all other types of waste. The strategy of this which is before us has also been made by our court a significant progress compared to the previous 2003 strategy which has also been discussed here through the classification of individual waste flows, the assessment of the existing state and objectives and the measures to be taken for each waste stream individually. However, European trends in waste management are listed in this chapter, namely the section of this strategy cited a great efficiency in the thermal treatment of waste, or to translate from Croatia into Croatian, incineration, according to the experience of three countries, Denmark, Slovenia and Austria, but there are also a number of shortcomings in the introduction of burners and these shortcomings, I quote "the main shortcomings are considered to be resistance among the population and the unwillingness of politicians to support the process". So, introducing a burner. However, according to our club, the real lack of thermal waste treatment, i.e. incineration is neither a resistance among the population nor the unwillingness of politicians to support this process, but the real reason is the real danger of thermal waste treatment, primarily in the fact that burning poses a danger to human health and the environment, and that is simply a fact. Especially when considering the ineffectiveness of control and supervision in Croatia. You should know that burning increases, I stress, increases the toxicity of the waste you burn. It does not encourage waste avoidance because the combustion plants need to be able to operate at a certain capacity to ensure a constant amount of waste to be burned, which in itself is contradictory in the strategy. Because on the one hand, we go to reduce the amount of waste, and on the other hand, as the main method of the waste solution, we list the burner plants as soon as you have the burner plants, it's simply contradictory with attempts to reduce the waste. Because those burners need fuel, no. These products of the work of the burner are every burner's toxic ash and filters that belong to the most toxic waste produced by burning and is thus classified in the Law. So, filters are also waste and this dangerous waste, and in Croatia there is still no solution to the disposal of hazardous waste, especially the one created by burning. Furthermore, the strategy states that the vision, i.e. the idea of waste management, is a undeposed concept that tends to be an ideal that many colleagues here have already mentioned. We believe that this concept is primarily unrealistic, and then dangerous because municipal waste burners are no alternative to dumps. I'm undermining, burners are no alternative to dumps. It should be borne in mind that burner plants, although they work on the principle of modern technologies, emit heavy metals such as lead, mercury, cadmium and compounds of different dioxins and furans that are dangerous to health and in the smallest quantities so that regular measurement and monitoring of the concentration of these compounds will certainly not be sufficient to protect human health around the combustion plant. It should also be taken into account that in Croatia the practice is quite different from those of the European Union and that the rules are usually not respected, and that there is no appropriate criminal prosecution if the failure to manage the plantation occurs. Also, no regular filters are changed due to different types of savings and more and more toxic gases are released into the air or toxic ash is accidentally delayed to the municipal dump. As you know, it was precisely the case of a road fire in Zagreb where there was a fire at the waste of toxic burning products, i.e. ash and filters. We hold, therefore, that the Strategy must be resolved, above all, by reducing the amount and toxicity of waste through various economic incentives and legal measures. The re-use of recycling and composting should be encouraged, above all, and the existing dumps should be rehabilitated, according to European Union standards. This means the use of so-called A strategy that would ultimately be a waste-free strategy. So that would be an ideal that seeks, through which it would encourage the avoidance of waste generation, mechanical-biological processing, composting and what is most important, gentlemen, in this whole story separate collection of waste. In particular, the work in the section on specific measures to achieve strategic objectives under B management of non-hazardous waste is planned and plans to build 1 to 4 energy on waste, as mentioned several times in this document as well as under section 4.2.1. municipal waste. Although Section 1.2 of point A states that the basic principle which the strategy is governed by is respect for the hierarchy of waste management. Where waste avoidance is given priority and burning is located at the bottom of the hierarchical ladder. The plans for the construction of waste power plants are much clearer than those for composting, recycling, mechanical biological processing, and the conclusion is that the municipal waste burning strategy favours the measures at the top of the waste management hierarchy that I have already listed. In addition, given the ineffectiveness of supervision, once again here I mention the Zagreb PUTO, it is hard to believe that new facilities will be designed for the processing of hazardous or dangerous waste, that they will meet the European Union's ecological and security standards. For example, the draft strategy does not specify concrete measures to improve the control and control system, but, for example, points 3.3. of the general measure to improve the information system and the reporting of waste, and to educate all those who need to deliver and collect data on the quantity and composition of waste. Sasma is certain that education itself is not enough unless there are stimulative and criminal measures for waste producers, which, due to high waste disposal prices, especially dangerous ones, could continue with current practices, which is not reporting the exact amount and composition of waste because it is thus costing them their disposal. Specific measures to achieve strategic objectives shall indicate the avoidance and reduction of waste. Therefore, through public education, implementation of projects of cleaner production, improvement of separate collection and recycling systems, etc. However, there is no clear indication of the objectives to be achieved by avoiding hazardous and hazardous waste such as no clear deadlines, nor methods, nor by who is responsible for the implementation of these methods within certain deadlines. The key to the solution is actually safe in separate collection and recycling of waste. I would like to stress here on behalf of the Club in fact and send a message to the Secretary of State and Assistant Minister, the minister, that it is quite clear that there is no recycling of waste without separate collection. It must become clear to everyone. There's no story of recycling without separate waste collection. Once you throw out municipal waste, it was glass, plastic, paper or anything else that's useful for recycling or it was organic waste that's useful for composting, or any other kind of waste that's suitable for recycling, once you throw it in the same bag, it becomes garbage that you can't recycle. Thus, the famous steam that we have heard or read or heard from television or radio commercials a thousand times or read on various jumbo posters that read "wasn't garbage" is not accurate if there is no separate collection of waste. If there's no separate waste collection, then all waste is garbage. And the moment that clean-up workers or utility companies in Croatia catch up with that bag or bucket where all the waste is mixed together, that moment it became garbage. And there's no more talking about recycling, or composting, or reducing the amount of waste or all that together. And what's most important of all that story is that kind of garbage can't even be burned. Therefore, the story is not as simple as it looks in the first wave. Especially when it comes to hazardous waste, we are amazed at the fact that, as a solution to finally taking care, cements, burns and deep wells for waste from oil mining, and as one of the factors that makes it difficult to manage hazardous waste effectively in Croatia, the so-called ... or "from in my backyard effect" actually concerns the public as if it was unwarranted due to lack of information and lack of education which is certainly not true. The public is very well informed and well educated. In these cement plants in Croatia, ladies and gentlemen do not meet the security and environmental standards of the European Union, for the management of residues of combustion such as... I warn once again there is no solution and oil wells are hardly able to represent isolated traps for hazardous waste that will eventually safely leak into the surrounding ground and groundwater. For animal waste, the need for at least three other open-end facilities for heat treatment without identifying needs and exploring the possibility of actually avoiding such combustion or composting of this type of waste shall be specified. Although the European Union has set a goal of reducing the amount of hazardous waste from 20% to 2010 compared to the quantities of 2000, the strategy does not set targets for reducing the amount of hazardous waste. What we are particularly concerned about is that there is such a poorly defined storage in deep wells, that it could be concluded that such wells will also store dangerous waste, which is an unacceptable way of handling. And finally the closing sentence is just another one for the end. What we are actually holding to the main observation on the draft strategy is that although it is repeatedly referred to respecting waste management hierarchy in order to avoid or reduce waste production, evaluation and disposal, clear targets and deadlines are not listed anywhere in order to reduce waste generation. Without such concrete objectives and deadlines, we are afraid in the HSP Club will remain a dead letter on paper and will probably not significantly reduce the amount of waste that comes into the dump or the way it is disposed of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45272	Thank you very much. We are now going to individual debates, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45273	Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. All of us who've been in the local self-government for a long time could talk for hours about garbage because it's one of the important topics, a short proposal. So, it is good that the authors of the strategy covered a period where they think they could achieve what they were waiting for, so for the next 20 years, but it is certain that they had in mind and the state of the founding state, so all that was inherited from a long series of years before this. The current state in which waste management is very poor leads to unnecessary accumulation of large quantities of waste on the wave of unregulated dump and wild dumps. Let's just look at the situation along the Sava River. It's amazing how the dumps and the dumps are properly replaced, unfortunately even the order is that if we go downriver, so the first dump is the first dump, so the dump, then the dump, then both the draw, so both of them came along with the used one of those tents, because the garbage wasn't organized, the collection was organised in such a way that they drove away, and then they were all filling up, and it's actually a tragedy of one big city. Here's the foresters next to Sava if we take a walk, ornithological reserves are full of garbage. What's happening to us now is an elegant way of taking care of waste without anyone reacting or inspection. Let's say a huge area we have protected, a sporting recreation zone, so there's no construction, people selling land, customers coming in, taking down humus, digging up a scooter, pushing in waste building material along with piles of garbage, resuscitating it right, and nothing, none of the inspections did anything. This phenomenon is getting more and more common, let's see it is along Lakes of Rakitije, Oresje, so here in the immediate vicinity as soon as you cross the bridge and it looks very ugly, it destroys nature without any of the competent inspectors doing anything. Here I also describe the area where waste collection is well organized, including bulky waste. Now the areas along the railway lines, along Croatia, look like Croatia looking from small tourist planes, as tourists unmistakably discover the island of garbage with smell and vision we have heard and seen countless times. The strategy gives a significant place to waste management, to edit existing dumps, to reduce the number of dumps, which is very important, to ban waste disposal on the island but to build one or two burn plants. There'll be trouble, resistance, but we're used to it. After the Hawari Road piles up dangerous waste often in illegal warehouses, certainly in inappropriate places. An important step has been taken by including waste producers to participate in the costs of handling packagings primarily PET packagings. Too few plastic bottles to see where the waste is ends up in a few containers. Glass aluminium packaging usually ends up in useless waste as well as paper. Simplified because the strategy is really professional and extensively written, so it should create conditions for disposal of useful waste, by placing vessels and containers, it should work very hard on education from kindergartens, schools. Here's an example of Germany, where even the smallest child won't allow any of the useful waste to be dumped, there was just a conversation about one bag, there's not one bag in a garage or anywhere else, and there's a few bags in each one of these bags, and then it's going to drive to the container. It should be encouraged and encouraged to process useful waste because what if no one is processing it, I hope now that the situation thanks to a few processors is better but should help good credits really expand production because they will eventually also provide useful waste and increase employment. We've done something that's good, stimulate hunting and fishing societies. They wouldn't believe one big help in the work of society, they organize waste collection, they really follow a huge wave of uninhabited areas and help with the clear logistics of the community it works very well. Then, I said I needed to reach an agreement on centralised landfills. We've tried that before and it's been pretty hard to think that the state here is going to have to cut pretty hard and it has to happen. It is necessary to identify and monitor hazardous waste, a lot of famous manufacturers that we know that the names as a... product or packaging waste are dangerous, however, a trail is lost frequently, that inspection must be very monitored. Consider the increased amount of waste of electronic appliances and the way to handle it, we have heard it today, more and more TV computers, with which we do not know where, the consciousness of the current amount in the projected 20% would be really great, clearly with the composting of one piece, and I think we want here and the promoters and all of us to succeed. I believe that with the help of the Environmental Protection Fund, then the Ministry, municipalities, cities, the County, with good cooperation from the indicated inhabitants, this strategy can succeed. Here's to short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45274	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, dear secretary of state! I must say, it's very interesting to study this material. And what first question came to me when I really read this material proposal for a strategy? I thought it was made for the cabinet. It really explains the problem of waste management on the scientific basis. Everything about the laws is in the material. Do we need this strategy? Of course we should, so we're not against strategy. But, colleagues and colleagues, the motion for a strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the first page, finds that the situation with the deposit, disposal or disposal of waste is crisisous. Whether or not those who have read are sure to know another finding in the strategy stands. If it stands, then it is doubtful what this strategy solves. The government admits to us that the applicable law is not implemented. Not a single sentence why it's not being played. There is no reason not to implement the current Waste Management Act, and of course we can go through the woods and live the road and say that we have brought the strategy but the problem will remain the way it is. Is this strategy based on the development policy of the Republic of Croatia? Has she been involved with development policy? What moved me to do that? Will Croatia build thermal power plants on water or the sun, wind or do I not know what, on renewable energy sources? Is that important to affect the creation of waste? If that's the coal power plant, then the layman knows there's more waste than the wind. Has Croatia met its development needs regarding energy? It's not. My colleagues and colleagues, simply because Croatia has or 299,99 000 unemployed workers so it cannot choose any development path and wait for it to solve its basic problem and we know that one great force did not sign an agreement from Kyoto, not because it is not aware of the meaning of the agreement but because it has its own interests, interests of its citizens, its economy and its economy. If that's how we view things, the goals are really well set, really well set goals. But how to get to those goals except to prescribe and then, after a few years, we realize that the law doesn't apply to anyone. Then this will remain a dead letter on paper again. One big problem we don't mention directly here. Of course, in principle they will pay for the waste of those who create it. If this strategy is not based on development, in developmental directions, then the principle does not mean anything, it absolutely does not mean anything. In Croatia today, we cannot introduce a system to separate different wastes, simply because people cannot buy five buckets that cost 360 kuna for different wastes. One bucket costs 365 kuna. I won't say which local unit sent the letter. If you want waste disposal, you pay five times 360 kuna. It's just not real. This strategy is not implemented. So, if we're going to produce the Cockta, I don't know where the Cockta is produced or we're going to Coca-Cola is important to this strategy. Whether we're going to produce milk in a carton or in a return packaging is important for this strategy. That is why I believe that there should be priorities in the strategy that are related to the development strategy. We are going to something that in this assembly, we have several times agreed to say water differentiation is the specific or advantage of Croatia in the world with drinking water. Is this strategy determining which land areas are excluded from the deposit of any waste, precisely because of the preservation of water streams that will determine the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia in the future. There are no such indications in the strategy, not even that this will happen except that the waste will not be deposited on the islands which I, of course, support. Of course I do. In that sense, of course, I am not an expert in waste technology but I can read when it is said that the law is not applicable and that the crisis with waste disposal is, or depositing or solving the problem of waste today. I'd still go back to the water problem. I would say on several occasions from the constituency benches, even from the pay phone, even from the presidential table or from the government, it is stated that the water in the future will mean more than oil and energy today. Croatia is a country that has a significant relative surplus of water and which seems to me from the tower that one part of these sources is given in the concession. I'm surprised that at least these concessionaries don't put pressure on shutting down areas, spill areas that provide drinking water in the future against waste disposal especially when it comes to hazardous waste such as batteries, such as poisons from medicines that have passed the deadline, etc. It is therefore not a dilemma whether to support the strategy but rather a dynamic dilemma that will realise waste management and the priorities to be identified in the strategy. If Croatian citizens are now informed that the strategy will cost 3 billion euros and we know that some can't buy bread because they are on social need, then the strategy should already tell who will pay with what dynamics and what priorities. I think it's a strategy because citizens need to know what awaits them if they act on one principle, and what awaits them if they behave on another principle. That's what the government has to tell them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45276	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45277	Very briefly, Mr. President, join those who are aware of the problems that arise in fact but that we are obliged to resolve them naturally, in accordance with the means we have and both these technological and all other achievements. So that's why I'd say that I find it very difficult to read these pages 34 where it's said when we only talk about households that only 4.5% of total waste produced has been collected and recycled and that about 20 percent of the glass is running. It's also just one-third of the paper. So it turns out that the poorer you are, the more wasteful you are, that is, we are at a very low level of development as regards looking at waste, not as garbage, not as a burden, but as a source of secondary raw materials. Now that Mrs. Chuhnil said she reminded me the same thing, now she's gone, to one state the same, and I'm sorry, my colleagues, same in the meat industry because we're one of the few countries that, to speak only of two items. Pig skin eats and does not process it into those products that are wallets, bags and the rest that are much more expensive. Or I don't know the pig's blood is being dumped in the sewers and it's basically the basis for different medications, so I don't say everything else. Here, so it has given me in some way and I am tasked to support this strategy to say exactly the biggest problem in the heads of the population who is aware that the waste production thinks that someone else and elsewhere must take care of it even, now Croatia is small and everyone thinks that Croatia will be able to pay for taking care of its garbage and somewhere out there if it is not just radioactive waste. So, I come from Koprivnica and Križevci County where one of the possible regional dumps is located and what everyone in Croatia must be concerned about is the number of residents who produce certain household waste and the industry that must also be sufficiently developed to make the quantities that are economically profitable for the construction of a waste processing plant, I will not talk about landfills, about taking care of nature, but I will talk about secondary raw materials processing plants that come from waste, it is as profitable as I know it because I have been dealing with it for a long time as president of former and executive councils and others, the municipalities of the units that organise waste management for some 700 thousand inhabitants. Now that we look at this table on page 35 and we see the amount of waste per capita and the number of cubic meters and these small counties then we see that Croatia in all of its population might have three such factories eventually for processing, I repeat, one where all these metals that my colleague Rosic was talking about would go into the air today by burning down in a classic way that they would literally go into smoke. So it could be collected, processed as potential later raw materials for making different things. So, in this part of it, the task of the MPs is to first support this strategy that only gives some frames, although I am very afraid when the strategy allows 21 dumps in the counties it will be understood and no one will, therefore, be very difficult to associate with others, and no one will see, therefore, the benefits of this future place where municipal waste should be taken care of. And the benefits are huge from hiring the workforce, to get all the infrastructures, such as water supply, disposal, to get a certain amount of money for rent, and to simply become something other countries have at the heart of cities taken care of, for example, If you go to Vienna in the city centre one such garbage processing plant, it can also work normally in a crowded area if it meets all environmental standards. And in our case, the problem of municipal, municipal waste management is mainly used for political purposes, or political purposes, and even before the general public is informed and about the protection of environmental studies of any elements or consequences and good and bad puts any political options that are then raised in the elections by people in some kind of strike or public protest against something that is not known at all, so the first terms that we need to change at all. The world should be changed4 if we have to take care of this waste ourselves and it should change consciousness, therefore, that classical garbage dumps are a thing of the past and in Croatia. Not only in the world, but also in Croatia. So, our job as an agent should be to create a good one, so to speak. The positive public change towards the future implementation that will follow after the adoption of the strategy through and through new legal acts and through implementing acts and in this part here, I join all those who are bigger experts in this area than me but I think politics must stop getting involved in professional problems and let the profession, therefore, take care of the species in the best possible way, therefore, of the waste that the Croatian population and industry produce and of our little space do what is most rational. And in the economics section and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45278	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45279	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard many times today that permanent changes in lifestyle as well as the spread of consumer mentality have resulted in a constant trend in the growth of the amount of waste which, if inadequately delayed, can leave lasting negative consequences for the environment. Unsuitable waste management is the biggest problem of environmental protection in Croatia. The time to act is getting smaller every day because new amounts of waste are emerging and unused and discarded waste becomes a waste that permanently endangers human health and the environment. The amount of waste is increasing and the infrastructure that should be taken care of is not sufficient. As the promoter himself observes, the fact is that if the waste management crisis does not quickly make significant changes, it will take great proportions and waste will directly or indirectly affect all environmental components. The lack of clear and strictly defined strategies and waste management at national level contributes to this poor situation when it comes to waste disposal. I therefore join those who support the adoption of this strategy by the waste management of the Republic of Croatia, which is the subject of this debate today. I believe that, before us, a quality and professional document with well-established and described current conditions, with well-defined strategic objectives and proposed measures that should undoubtedly lead to an improvement in the existing situation. It is essential today to discuss whether this strategy should have been adopted before because the situation when waste management is really alarming. Now we have what we have, the proposal for a strategy is ahead of us, the only thing we can do is appeal to the government to quickly approach the development of a waste management plan so that the burning problems of waste disposal are resolved as soon as possible because otherwise this strategy, which, I stress, is once again a really professional and quality document, could remain just a summary of good wishes. Slow problem-solving of all types of waste has led to a critical situation in the largest number of local self-government units. We probably all remember very well the case of Makarska and those really ugly scenes, a bunch of garbage on the streets of the city. The sights that visited not only Croatia before the new year 2004 but unfortunately went beyond our country's borders as very good, under quotes from tourist ads. And such problems are not only the Makarska coast or the Makarska coast, but many cities face such and similar problems of waste management on a daily basis. Better said in Croatia is very few environments that waste management has solved in a relatively satisfactory way. And this example of my Makarska is a typical example that best illustrates what consequences arise when problems are not solved in time, although in their resolution the applicable regulations apply in an unsuitable way or only partially. The Donja Gora dump in Podgorica opened 27 years ago as a dump for the then municipality of Makarska and the town of Vrgorac. Some tens of thousands of tons of municipal industrial waste were delayed annually without any order. The way the junk came in. The waste is often set on fire, and the smoke brings wind, so Podgora can be wrapped in uncomfortable smoke for days. The dump covers an area of more than 35,000 square metres from which only the ownership relations are resolved in the smaller part. Most of the remaining land is privately owned. These are all problems that have not been dealt with properly for many years but have been put under the rug. In the end, these problems escalated so that the locals decided to take the law into their own hands and physically blocked access to the dump and prevented further waste from being delivered. And then there was a total ecological collapse on the Makarska Riviera. This example best illustrates the problem which, which seems to me to be a general presence in our society, which is a situation that the general public generally sees waste and waste management as a problem but not their own but someone else's. A country, a county or a third, not the one where the problem arises. Because the problem of Donja Gora's disposal was addressed in time or that the units in which it was being solved were, that it was managed in an adequate manner, it would certainly work for several more years until there was an opening of the county waste management centre. And now in Makarska, we have a situation similar to Varazdin. The garbage's embalming. Fears are being delayed in an inadequate way. It collects, at least now it's such calculations that it collects the disposal of the trash by some 4, 4 times. And yet another problem is very present in our society, and I fear that it will further make it difficult to implement the objectives set by this strategy, which is that public attitude towards waste is mostly negative, resulting in an hostile attitude towards the location of waste management buildings and plants. From recycling yards to dumps and thermal defense facilities. So that known effect "Not in my back yard" is very vividly indicated throughout the Republic of Croatia which certainly does not contribute to the urgent resolution of the problem of waste, and the alarm bell has long come to light. Here's another fresh example that illustrates what waste management looks like in practice. The place of the shop is again the park of nature Biokovo where 11 cows died. The cows died on August 2nd. The vet found out there was a poisoning. Police have made an eyewitness report and since then have been bickering over a matter whose obligation is to remove the corpses. In the forest of regulations and laws that intertwine the ball of responsibility is transferred from one to the other with a purpose, the entire case is familiar with the Nature Protection Administration, the Office of County Veterinary Inspection in Split, the public institution Nature Park Biokovo, the municipality of Podgora, as this location is located in the municipality of Podgora. They are also familiar with Croatian forests. And every one of them thinks it's a problem to solve the other one. The result of this mutual bickering and the accusation is that the corpses of a cow, or rather, are now already being removed by no one from Biokova, and it has been more than two months. Not to mention the vast amounts of construction waste that had been uncontrollably finished at sea, with certain mayors proudly boasting that they would build gold wars that would be more beautiful than the original one. These examples from the Makarska coast that I presented best illustrate what our reality is about waste management and disposal. The amount of waste is increasing, and the existing infrastructure that should be properly taken care of is not sufficient. The waste management system isn't working. Applicable regulations shall only be applied partially or inadequately. The lack of education of citizens and employees of companies on waste management, the lack of awareness of people most often predominates the opinion that the problem of waste management is someone else's problem and needs to be addressed by someone else. Furthermore, due to the systematic non-resolving of waste in an adequate way today, we have too many unregulated, uncontrollable, and for the environment of dangerous waste dumps. This strategy plans to resuscitate and close all waste dumps over the next 5 years and build 20 regional waste management centres. One at a time in every county. With no permanent dumps on the islands. The situation with waste is already so alarming that it requires the rapid construction of regional waste management centres, but unfortunately in most counties, the work has not moved too far from the start. We still have an incomplete spatial definition of the location of the dump. Project documentation and necessary permissions do not exist. In part of existing and potential locations, the buildings and facilities of property-legal relations have not been resolved. The problem is, it's clear to all of us very much. The happy environment of the current waste situation is the importance of this problem, which is seen from day to day by all the layers of our society, which ultimately must lead to the start of a quality solution to this problem, which involves the application of procedures to avoid, reduce, separate collection and recycling of waste, and finally sanitary and ecologically orderly disposal of other inert waste. After all, this is one of the main, essential conditions for admission into the European Union and is a quality solution for waste management. And finally, because I'm running out of time, I'd just like to stress the need for education, and all the structures and all the layers of society from kindergarten, and on top of that, we're really starting to act the way this problem deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45280	Thank you very much. Now they'd interrupt the session. Tomorrow is the first respected representative Vladimir Štengl and Kruno Peronja, Vlado Jelkovac, Mato Arlovic and so on. So we pick up tomorrow at 9:30. Gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the proposal for a waste management strategy for the Republic of Croatia. Your Honor, Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45282	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Starting with the claim, not once said, that we did not only inherit this land from our ancestors, but we also borrowed it from our descendants by resolving the issue of waste management, our obligation to fathers, descendants, and of course towards ourselves and while we are already with the offspring, is better borrowed as soon as possible to return. The fact is that the current state of waste management in the Republic of Croatia is very modest, with due respect for all positive examples and shifts. Unfortunately, we still have consciousness and the habit of throwing away garbage or anything we don't need, but let's throw as far away from our backyard as possible and we don't care anymore. Of course there are extremely good examples, but it's still far from desirable, let alone optimal. Since this whole waste story has its own price, and it's not small, the rules of the game must be set by the state, called it centralised or not. In fact, someone does calculate that it's worth it, and it's worth it, so games that can't be said to be correct. Eastern Slavonia, along with northwestern Croatia, is listed as a good example, and there is something like this happening. That these and such actions have no other consequences, it is simply a waste of time, and time is very precious to us. It is visible from the video, that the best situation in the city of Zagreb is, but it is also far from good and desirable. The economic effects of optimal waste management are incomprehensible and all investments are very fast and abundantly oriented, and we are not so rich as to say we are not rich at all, that the current way of waste management, i.e. the carelessness of waste, would leave for some future. This strategy is a good way, the only way to keep the environment from the coastal islands in the south to the bathing and in-house asses in the north. I can't help but mention one water stream category of drain canals, mentioned so many times over the last few years for devastation. I wonder how much in each of these channels we can find car wrecks, discarded white techniques, and about PVC and PET packaging that we're not even talking about. Without this discarded waste, the flow would be far better, and the spilling of lush waters would not be spoken of. And finally, in the mechanism it has launched and started Croatia, and this strategy has a significant place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45283	Thank you. Honorable representative, Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45284	Just now, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, this Proposal for Strategy and Waste Management has arrived at the right time on our benches, but before I say most importantly, I would like to point out the great progress made by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, which has just taken a major step in realising one part of the proposed waste management strategy in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the very determined and firm ministry has set the frameworks, and I will say specifically what the regional and regional self-government can do, accept this challenge and set out to form the Waste Management Centre, not only for the Split-Dalmatia County area, but also for neighbouring counties, thus creating assumptions that in one of the most modern ways, it would even dare to say, higher standards than they have now accepted in Europe and the world and realised this for a simple reason. The current Strategy for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Croatia and the National Environment Action Plan has found that inadequate waste management is the biggest problem of environmental protection in Croatia. As a county facing its drinking water sources, a number of water chargers have already developed, tourism development. We decided to firmly accept the proposed proposals offered by the said ministry and set off and rescheduled in Podgorica all known one dump, thus protecting Zagora, the source of drinking water, coastal water, but also islands and soon we expect to complete and issue a local and construction permit for the construction of the spoken centre. And this is a chance to thank Mrs. Marini Dropulić, State Secretary Mr. Mr. Mr. Ruzhinski, who, despite the lack of preparedness of the public, followed the results of these studies, set out courageously to build what is called our future. With this problem, we will not find us, but we will solve the problem in time, form a centre, renovate a number of landfills in the Split-Dalmatia County area, point out the possibility from neighbouring counties that this should be arranged. Because the waste management system so far has a negative impact on environmental components, such as water, air, sea and soil, and climate. Namely, with the previous and completion of Split-Zagreb highway, i.e. Dubrovnik-Zagreb, a large number of tourists are coming, there will be a large number of garbage, and all this is prematurely already realised by one part of this proposed strategy. We are primarily interested in and tortured by this municipal waste that we want to solve, but also by animated municipalities, cities and counties that need to do the most important part of the work, which is education from kindergarten further. So it doesn't happen that at the entrance to tourist municipalities and cities we see discarded refrigerators, stoves, but by developing consciousness and reducing the cost of waste disposal. In fact, by especially postponing old paper, PET packaging, and by really opening up the possibility of a lot of things being lost and solved. We haven't forgotten about animal waste either, although it's not an obligation of the local community, but the only time in this settlement is a very good cooperation between municipalities, cities, counties and the Croatian government, that is, the relevant ministry. Of course, according to its properties, it is also classified. We aim to outrun all wild dumps, resuscitate them, create the possibility that in these wild dumps they greened, grassed, and create the assumption that they are used, such land for some other permitted purpose, because it is precisely data that by 2003 about 34 million cc's of waste has been delayed at 281 landfills. Of which at 60 higher with an average of 0.79 cubic metres or 191 kg per capita per year. That's what we should be worried about. We can't let dumps go wild and grow, and the guess for the centres is, for waste management centers is fulfilled. Of course, since these are the first steps of the local community, we have also organised the most modern tours in this part of Europe and the world to remove one animosity in the local population, because it is seen that this can really work, that other economic facilities can also be developed and that this can also increase the number of employees. We believe that, with the protection of the environment, such centres should be built as soon as possible, hasten all studio makers, encourage and municipalities and cities and counties along with our ministry, and we cannot wait there. We must not allow time to run over us because the number of tourists arriving on the Croatian Adriatic takes with them the good side and the larger amount of waste of the simplest of plastic bags and beyond. We need to finish the projects as soon as possible. Resolutely issue local building permits, not letting other priorities drag us into unnecessary waste of time. This is mainly because we have also trained many young experts to see how it works in neighbouring Austria, how it works in Sweden. Young educated experts are actually a pledge to protect our environment, sea, water, air and create an assumption of further development of our economy, to increase the number of jobs, but also to protect the local population, that there will be no pollution. So we encourage our minister and the entire ministry not to be late for anything, but to have strongholds and good allies in municipalities, cities and counties and to start these projects as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45285	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45286	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The strategy of waste management of the Republic of Croatia is that we will agree on a truly quality document, a professional, quality with a well-represented state and with some concrete proposals. It will become an integral part of the environmental protection strategy and the purpose of its production is to set up a framework within which the Republic of Croatia will reduce the amount of waste it produces and the waste produced in a sustainable manner. The strategy includes an assessment of the existing situation, basic objectives and measures for waste management, guidelines for the use and disposal of waste, as well as an assessment of investment investments and sources of waste management financing in the Republic of Croatia for the period up to 2025. The assessment of the current situation says that waste management problems in the Republic of Croatia are particularly pronounced and that the situation in most local self-government units is almost critical. The amount of waste is growing, and the waste management system is not fully or to the greatest extent. There is not enough incentive to use recycled products and it collects mainly paper and glass and not nearly enough. Management of hazardous waste is also a particularly significant problem, and hazardous medical waste is only partially handled. Almost all municipal waste dumps were disposed of by all categories, including the dangerous ones. 281 dumps have been registered, but I think it's a much bigger problem than 3,000 wild dumps. The collection of municipal waste covers about 65% of the population of the Republic of Croatia with waste in the sea from ports, marinas, ships neither being collected nor being taken care of on land. The financing of waste management does not correspond nearly to the needs, and the setting of new waste management sites is not reached by agreement between local self-government units. No one in their backyard wants waste, and I think that exactly those locations are a critical point waiting for us in the future, because like I said, no one is going to waste or trash in their backyard. Unfortunately, in many areas, the problem of waste disposal and the definition of future dump sites becomes a means for local political accounts. I think we all need a lot of patience, but a lot more information for both citizens and those who will make decisions. I mean, first of all, members of municipal, city, county heads and councilmen. All of them need to be told what are the shortcomings, but also to point to possible benefits for locals through, for example, the possibility of insurance of work through a possible rent that can be achieved and the like. I also think they should be introduced to the experiences of other environments that have been in front of us for years, as well as those of concrete situations where, for example, burn plants like in Vienna are located in the city center or some other. I had the opportunity to visit the Bavarian Waste Management Institute, which runs a professional waste management policy with all the processes we intend to achieve and which are listed in this strategy and I can say that it really looks like an institute or a technology park. Outside, no one could really conclude that it was the waste management process. And what's interesting in Bavaria, so 30 years ago, was the same problem with waste as it is with us today, but another similar situation. At that time, about 30,000 workers in the textile industry in the textile industry became some. I'm not saying it's a model that needs to be painted with us, but they've found a solution through the waste industry and helped to alternatively employ those who have lost their jobs in other dams. It's about the household selection process, the assemblies, the selecting, the composting, the burners. So also other segments of this whole one process called waste disposal. Of course, the costs are covered by part of the waste disposal fee and are calculated in the price of those products whose packaging will be to be taken care of in the future. I say once again it is impossible to repatriate this or such model, but I am sure that a number of useful experiences from practice can be used in our situation, especially for the reasons that cooperation through different foundations, and by co-financing from the European Union funds, I believe that they can achieve significant resources to solve and our problem. More significant actions on the recovery of existing dumps were only started in 2004, the start of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which is involved with the costs of recovery from 30 to 50%. According to the plan for a disposal for the period 2005 to 209 will be invested in the rehabilitation of 163 dumps close to 3 million kuna. Well, that's just the first step. Based on the analysis of the state and vision of sustainable and functional waste management, strategic objectives are also defined in order to protect human health and the protection of the environment. In order to gradually reduce pressure on the environment and human health, according to the Strategy, conditions should be created to reduce waste production, reduce the quantities that are being delayed and reduce the risks of remaining waste. The strategy sets quantitative targets with the appropriate time limits for 2005 to 2025. by 25 years of organised collection of municipal waste should cover the entire population in the Republic of Croatia. The construction of 4 regional management centres, county waste management centres, and the rehabilitation of all existing dumps is planned. For the implementation of planned activities and strategies, it is necessary to draw up a waste management plan for the Republic of Croatia as well as plans for the County and the City of Zagreb, as well as plans for cities and municipalities. Waste management is a communal activity and is in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. The national strategy will not succeed unless the rules of conduct and accession of the entire country are brought into line. The situation and various economic opportunities of individual units of local self-government and their utility companies are different, purity or the like, but also citizens. With the waste selection, you need to start from the households. But if it is requested as it was yesterday in the debate 300 kuna per loan, then 4 or 5 such household vessels, I'm afraid this strategy will be nothing. So, households should get these dishes free of charge and what I think is particularly important, we need to significantly improve education, get to know the citizens and the state and what we want starting already from kindergartens, schools, TV and so on in every way possible. Given the relatively low fees for waste management in Croatia, it is necessary to plan a realistic amount of prices and, taking into account that the level of compensation is harmonised, implements with the principle of "polluter of wages". Since, as I said at the outset, this strategy is a professional and quality document, since it is an extraordinary basis for what is yet to come and what we want to do, of course I will support it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45287	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Anna Lovrin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, here we are in these discussions yesterday and today of clubs and distinguished representatives heard that mostly all options agree with this strategy and with those strategic objectives which it has established. I wouldn't be talking here about how well some of the main elements of this strategy are, and that's that we finally came to the fact that the pollutant has to pay, to go to primary selection, recycling, etc. Because these are all provisions that have already been regulated by a stricter regulation, which is the Waste Act that this Croatian Parliament adopted in December 2004. I would say here that Croatia is actually a happy country, and it is happy because here we have a finding at the beginning, in the introduction of part of this strategy that waste management is the biggest individual problem of environmental protection and that Croatia is seriously at its most difficult environmental protection problem at a time when it still works, and we see it from comparable data from similar European countries of a similar size. The amount of waste they seem to me in this comparison at least, which means we started in time. It is true that since 2002, when this Environmental Protection Strategy was adopted, too much time has passed, but here we see a good explanation given here, which is that the government has prepared a waste management programme but that the acquisition of avia is estimated to have to act on some of the European Union's achievements and that therefore it will not be possible to implement all this and that it is necessary to fully amend the Waste Act, which is what this Government has proposed to the Croatian Assembly in 2004. We, if not to repeat, all the specifics of the Waste Act that we have already adopted in this Strategy, should pay attention in this document, so this is what we can discuss today, which is the vision and priorities of waste management, which I would agree with in fullness, and then on this page the 43rd strategic goals, and that is what is important to us today, to consider and to say that we agree, and I think we can all agree because they are established well. So these strategic objectives are avoiding the effort to reduce the amount of waste, the development of infrastructure by the principle of "Ivo", meaning the separation, evaluation of recovery and disposal, clearly with one of the ultimate ideal goals that we are likely to find very difficult, we will not reach this 2025 for which period this Strategy is made, we will not reach, and this is a hopeless delay. Clearly, the education of administrative structures, experts and the public to address waste management problems, which is particularly important, which is what the distinguished representative Jelkovac was talking about earlier. And it is particularly important and let us pay attention to these quantitative objectives of this Strategy, because they are what we must be interested in and they are what we must accept, which I would welcome entirely. And that is, as we see Table 3.1 that says, which speaks of the population that is covered by organized waste collection as a percentage, so today 80 and 2025. 99%, so 100%. So, the amount of separately collected recycled that today is 6%, and it's planned to be 25, the amount of processed municipal waste that is 2% today, and it's planned to be 30 to 2005, that's what we're today adopting this strategy. And in a further table where we are talking about regional county centres and official dumps that are so one, as I would say, colloktially called official dumps, which is something that is legal, illegal in the process agreed, so something that the legal category certainly isn't, which today has 187, and 2025, thanks to Bugu, it says that if we secure all other implementing regulations 14-21, and instead of today's 0 regional centres and 0 county centers, we'll have them by 2025. 4 regional and 14 to 21 county. Furthermore, this strategy has been set and that we will have, therefore, 21 county dumps and I am expressing my suspicion. Somewhere planned, or plotted and overloaded pages, 25, I don't think that's realistic compared to the 21st county dump, but good. It's not a firm and strict definition. What I would like to point out today is that this strategy will remain just a beautiful publication with which we will all agree and admire it if we do not provide implementing regulations. And that's basically these plans, even if we don't even up other laws and other sublaws. This ministry is lucky, and here I suggest he pay attention to all the parallel regulations. Why? We have now heard that this matter is regulated in the part of the municipal waste of the Law on the Communist Economy, that it is regulated by the Waste Act. That even for the beginning, the most significant spatial-plan regulation is very important. Therefore, there is a need to think about the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction, the Law on Waste and the Law on the Community Economy which must be harmonised in order to implement it. Namely, what's going on? If there is a legal gap in one part or on the other, if there is an overload, there will certainly be interests or businesses that are unscrupulous or political, politically I do not say political, interests that are also unscrupulous and will certainly find something in that cumulation of regulations in order not to solve the ultimate problem of care as we have outlined this strategy. Besides, deadlines are extremely important. It seems to me that long ago in 2000 or 2001, there was a strategy for the spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia that spoke about what level of the spatial plan the waste disposal plants should plan, or location for waste management. This did not come to life, and if we stay on such specifics that units of local self-government will agree, that the counties will agree no one will agree because someone who will be a good soul will always come forward and say, "Don't you waste in your community and don't you do it right here." So the strategy has to have behind it programs that will have clear deadlines, and we see in the Waste Act, I wouldn't be looking for a culprit here. I'd just say that the government has set very ambitious deadlines under the Waste Act. For objective reasons, they are not maintained and cannot be maintained, although criminal provisions provide for penalties both for local self-government units and for counties, only for the government are not specified penalties if they do not comply with the deadlines. But I hope we'll lose our punishment because, here, we're waiting very soon for the government's waste management program so that the local units can bring their own programs, because they're already late in the county, and all units will be two months behind schedule. And I would also say that, certainly, when I adopt the program, I ask and appeal to the Ministry and Government to act on everything that certain local units have already done, not being able to wait for everyone else to agree and start pioneering. And I suggest to the government to support those units, one of these is certainly the City of Zadar, to support the completion of the pioneer project as a pilot project and then to present it as best practice to other local units, to see that it can and that it works well in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45289	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Jurkin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45290	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. After these great discussions, and I really do, and I mean it, my colleagues and colleagues, and not to repeat them, I'm going to start my debate in a completely different way. Like this, I guess each of us owned a broken bike. It brings me back to my youth because I often had a broken bike, and today I could use a bike. And now, you know how to fix a bike, but you don't have tools. I can't really fix things, but I have a toolbox and spare parts. If we don't communicate with each other, we can't solve anything, but by exchanging our skills and resources, by teamwork, but in the community we can finally have two correct bicycles. What was I gonna say? An individual is important, but mutual assistance is more important. I want us to get rid of ourselves in our own pride, selfishness, and egoism because otherwise, we are expected to have a real disaster in this century. I'm listening, coming to work, radio. I usually do it in the car, but I didn't do it today because I was on foot, burning up the Amazon forest because the drought took place in that area. And the reason is global warming and cutting down the forest. Then I read a source that has been supplying fresh water for thousands of years today. The Syrian city now has water supplies left for only 4 hours a day. And I quote, even the storms in Antarctica are no longer the same as before. Because just one of those big storms broke the biggest glacier in two parts. But there are also positive examples. You all remember that we have three large Croatian swamps that were 30 years ago, we considered them useless. We thought they were mosquitoes and diseases. Today we try to protect them at all costs because we understand what they mean in the ecosystem. We must remember that it was already written in the pyramid. One who does not know how to use the laws of nature will suffer. So he's already the great Pharaoh Keops, he's already been tortured by how the development of civilization will affect our lives further. We exchange, but the planet remains. Therefore, the great Pope John Paul II should be safeguarded. He states: "Remember that you are not the owner of the land, but only its protector and guardian." We slowly began to realize that. As a confirmation, this material is also in the waste management strategy, which is excellent and I truly thank the members of the government for such quality material. It is evident that they have realized that pollution occurs first, and after pollution they manifest themselves in action, in their poor actions so that there is a strong degradation in the environment. So, the elements of pollution in the fluids of civilization that allow survival and development, and our goal is to put all of this under control. That's our job here, too. The situation needs to be accepted realistically, not hopelessly, and not expected to solve things in itself. It is therefore necessary to invest and, at first sight, that investment in environmental protection appears to be a clean cost. But in the long run, it's highly profitable, so there's no alternative. Every delay pays dearly. And now, specifically, even though I think what I've been saying so far has been concrete. In Velika Gorica, we realized that waste management is extremely important, that waste management is an extremely important education of the public, which is why we started with the youngest age to create a completely different idea of waste management. We have actually adopted a document that has set our strategic goals on the segment of kindergarten and school. We have practically set up green islands in all the facilities of preschool and school institutions to collect secondary raw materials so that children get a habit at school and pass it on to older members of the community, which is exactly what I find interesting that we older people learn from younger ones and thus young people become ambassadors to the environment. In fact, it is unfortunate that because of slow industrial development, we are still not in the phase that the environment is as burdened with waste as is paid today by highly developed and many human countries that have passed a thorny path and are practically suffering sins from the past. From my perspective I think that Croatia has a chance not to repeat mistakes and that it is still not too late to establish... a system that would permanently and qualityly protect our natural resources. [[You don't understand.]] We must learn from others. So for example, when we look at that table on page 10 of that work material, then it is evident that there is a huge difference between developed countries and countries in transition in percentage of waste that is permanently delayed. While this percentage in Denmark and Austria ranges from 5 to 28.5% in Slovenia and Croatia, it ranges from 83 to 89%. So we are clearly given the sizes we should strive to reach and reach within as short a time as possible. And if I don't keep counting now, if I don't get even boring, I have to make a point. We must do everything to protect our natural wealth and to make our own personal contribution, the emphasis is on personal contribution. Let's act like a little drop in a song that can weave a waterfall and who's doing a little good he'll be big when he can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45291	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Irena Ahel's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45292	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. Waste management is one of the biggest environmental problems in the Republic of Croatia. So we certainly need a quality waste management strategy. It is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia as a tourist country, and a country with great opportunities to produce healthy food to take better care of existing waste as soon as possible and plan waste management in the future. In this area, it is certainly of particular importance to resuscitate existing wild dumps and black spots. Unsuitable waste management puts the environment at risk as well as human health. Every day we witness that the amount of waste is growing from day to day and the existing infrastructure intended for the disposal of this waste is certainly not enough. The waste management system is also not fully operational, and the regulations and laws governing waste management do not fully apply. The awareness of the need to avoid waste generation and the insufficient education of citizens as well as too many waste dumps, as well as too many unregulated and uncontrollable and environmentally dangerous waste dumps, are just some of the factors that lead us to a more serious and responsible focus on the problem of waste management. A particular problem in Croatia has long been municipal waste. The municipal waste mainly ends in unregulated landfills and has a harmful impact on health, space and the environment. I believe that the cost of waste disposal should be passed on to those who create waste, thus encouraging them to seek a better solution. Data on the amount of waste indicate the severity of the problem. By 2003, about 34.5 million cubic metres of waste was delayed at 281 dumps, with 60 major dumps. And organised collection of municipal waste covers an average of 65% of the population. It encourages the fact that 163 dumps are under way in cooperation with the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and local self-government units. Also for the next five years, recovery and closure of all waste dumps and the construction of 20 regional waste management centres are planned, with no permanent dumps on the islands. I welcome the decision that there are no permanent waste dumps in the islands, but it is necessary to ensure availability by means of instruments to ensure that the population of these islands in relation to the cost of waste disposal does not come into an unequal position in relation to the population on land. I also believe that educational action should be initiated through the media to raise awareness of waste. Based on the proposed strategy, waste management should be developed as quickly as possible. I believe that the proposal for a waste management strategy has been prepared with great quality and comprehensiveness and that strategic objectives and measures have been established to establish a functional waste management system and I fully support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45293	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here yesterday and today we've really heard a lot about this strategy, but it's not too bad to repeat once again that it is a very quality document that is the basis for further waste management planning in our country, but also the basis for the adoption of a waste management plan in the Republic of Croatia, the counties, cities and municipalities. The problem of waste has indeed become one of the biggest environmental issues, and in the county where I come from, I could say so vividly, that it is the top topic of the day with air pollution that citizens of the two largest cities of Sisak and Kutina are unfortunately exposed daily. According to data provided by the ministry, more than 90% of municipal waste dumps do not meet the modern requirements of editing and management. Viewed from the possibility of an environment, according to the rules one of the few dumps was arranged, it is the dump of the town of Sisak, indeed according to all the rules and can be a model dump. But in other parts of the county there are no such dumps, so here I really have to thank the ministry that involved and participated in the financing, launched an initiative to arrange the dumps used by the town of Croatia Kostanica and the municipality of Kukurizari because it was really I would say intervention measure. Bringing the Waste Management Strategy as a document would certainly solve itself in the most acceptable way of management and waste management and prevent all those events that we heard yesterday, such as events with municipal waste disposal in Makarska and PLUTO problems, the construction of a waste burning plant in the Sisak Refinery, which remains a daily topic of conversation among my fellow citizens. In places such as Sisak-Moslavina County, where there are three burn plants, unfortunately "Herbos", a thermal power plant, a refinery and a large waste disposal site not communal but... in the Box related to Petrokemija for years, we have been mentioned possible disposal of hazardous waste in the Shop Gora, we believe that we should insist on the rule that total waste is taken care of at the site of production and in exceptional cases, depending on the type of waste taking care of some other suitable locations. It is important to say that since the start of this government's mandate, the Ministry has begun systematically to deal with the recovery of all types of dumps, as many as 35 seems to have been involved somewhere in this recovery and several dumps of hazardous waste, including the one already mentioned in Kutina. Rehabilitation of the so-called The black points for waste disposal will be co-financed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in cooperation with the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and the local self-government units, and I am pleased to see 162 million kuna spent on this recovery from 2005 to 2008. The Sisak-Moslavina County, thought to be one of the contaminants with large contaminants and waste collectors mentioned in the INA Oil Refinery, Herbos, in which the burner, Termoelectric and Petrokemija Kutina, is thought to have caused the most public debate, caused the planned disposal of dangerous waste from low and medium radioactive. For years since the procedure for the adoption of the spatial arrangement programme of the Republic of Croatia, the location which was the same has been deleted in this plan of Moslavačka up and from further research as a potential location for the disposal of low and medium radioactive waste, and in this document I remain referring to the spatial plan only to the location of the trade up so that citizens' associations, individuals of the media are the most important and representative body of the units of the regional regional self-government, and the County Assembly has concluded that one in a series and the last one in February 2004 to solve this issue by amending and supplementing the Strategy for the Spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia from which the region would delete and the location I believe that this is already the established Trade Mountain which is particularly pleased us and therefore we must be grateful because the routes of our county are primarily and agriculture and tourism with regard to the resources which the county is available and the large agricultural areas and the very high quality of the region of the region, which are located directly in the area of Loblin and the area, the area of the area of the area, which is protected by the coast and the area of the area of the area of the sea, which is protected by the coast and the area of the area of the area of the area of the sea and the sea. Another big problem is the oil refinery of INA in Sisak, and Herbos in Sisak, which I have already said is that the topic of the talks is almost daily in our city. In order to address this problem, INA has also developed an Environmental Impact Strategy, a reconstruction of the plant for the thermal treatment of waste, but this year it is urgent, again I have to point out here thanks to the ministry that has been involved in the solution of this problem that has launched investment in the recovery of the plant in order to reduce air pollution. Based on everything I have said now, it is very important that the Strategy lists the bodies responsible for managing waste from the lowest level, means cities and municipalities, all the way up to us here in the Assembly that we are going to pass and certain laws that should follow this strategy, unfortunately this very often becomes a real problem and is used here and fellow Jelkovac has said for political purposes and comes to the topic ahead of some elections. The new body planned in this strategy is waste management coordination, should be tasked with improving the links between all the authorities responsible for implementing the waste management system and I think it is a very important body listed in this strategy. And there is also one very important factor, which is education and education from small legs, which has already been mentioned here by several colleagues, as well as public involvement in this problem, because often some problem would be solved among citizens that they are well informed and that they know what and how to behave. And finally, just one note, I think it's listed in this strategy. I think that the Strategy must be decoded, defined when it comes to administrative structures and clearly express the thought of what anyone does without overlapping jurisdiction. For example, on page 16, there is a regional level of therefore the county government, and in verse 4 and 5, the issue of appropriate permits and the collection of waste data is said. This is now not at the county level of the future catastrian... in the environment in most counties run the state administration office in the county which according to the formation of state bodies are not county, regional government but state government, let's say in the ordinary language of the ministry's establishment. The problem of the organisation of the government between the public administration offices and the county authorities is never exactly demarcated and comes to a confusion and this document is what is meant when the word county is mentioned, here's just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45295	Thank you very much. Another representative would be moving to the agenda point around the Strategic Definition Resolution, Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. Mr. Representative Anton Perusko. He's gone. He's losing his right. And Mr. Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. A few things very summed up about the strategy itself. What I personally keep really important in this whole strategy is so-called. The concept in the draft of this latest strategy of waste management of the Republic of Croatia, which is a concept that is listed here as a vision of waste management, etc. a non-depositary concept. Which, of course, tends to be an ideal in this strategy. I personally hold that not only unreal but also very dangerous because the municipal waste burners are not and can't be an alternative to a dump. Furthermore, rather than the strategic objectives clearly reflect the waste management hierarchy by priorities such as avoidance, evaluation and disposal, plans to build waste power plants are much more clearly defined in this strategy than measures and methods to achieve greater composting, recycling and mechanical waste treatment. While noting the importance of waste avoidance, clear targets and deadlines are not listed anywhere to be achieved to reduce waste generation. In this context, I actually hold the most important fact that the Strategy must speak out loudly and clearly that there is neither recycling nor composting nor avoiding a large amount of waste unless, as a basic thing in the Strategy, waste collection is placed separately, because it is the foundation and key for reducing municipal waste on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is the basis and key to a concept by which waste is not garbage or to translate it into a simpler Croatian language. If there is no separate collection of waste then there is neither recycling nor composting of organic waste from that part of municipal waste. Therefore, we cannot talk at all about recycling, we cannot talk at all about reducing the amount of waste, we cannot deal with composting, regardless of whether this composting has resulted in us stopping importing compost from the European Union or even being a little cynical. We are actually importing waste from the European Union that has been processed. Thus, if we do not set ourselves up like this, we will certainly fail on the one hand. And on the other hand, we can't talk about recycling or glass or paper, or plastics, or aluminium, or five packagings, or anything else if we don't have separate waste collection because it's actually the key to the whole story. When the municipal waste is mixed in a bucket or in a bag with all these elements I was talking about, so if it's not selectively and separately collected at that time, we don't have any more junk than we have garbage. On the other hand, what worries is the fact that there's a lot of talk about so-called. The thermal treatment of waste or other words in the combustion plants for which fuel is actually to be provided, so the question arises if the concept is that the amount of waste is reduced to a circus of 20 or 30% of the total waste that we will actually provide fuel for such massive combustion plants. So there are two things that are contradictory to each other, and that contradiction is reflected in the fact that the energy-generating burners must have fuel on the one hand and on the other hand we just seem to be making a declarative adjustment to the concept of reducing the amount of waste. Because otherwise it would mean this. We're going to build a combustion plant, and then over time, we're going to gradually reduce the amount of waste, and we're going to close those burners because they're actually not going to have any fuel for their work. Therefore, these contradictions, concepts or strategies should actually be more clearly defined on the one hand. And on the other hand, what is quite clear is that this story of education, that this great money that would be invested in actually making people aware of the way waste should be taken care of in the world and in Europe much simpler. In a very cultural country of the type of Switzerland, a separate collection of waste has been resolved in this way, that if waste is collected separately and that means it is suitable for recycling, so special paper, especially glass, especially aluminium, especially five packagings, then the export of this waste from the household is free of charge. And if because it is certainly possible to compensate for that freeness by the fact that it is a secondary raw material that is allowed to be cashed. If, on the other hand, people do not want to separately collect waste, are not disciplined or should I say "not cultural enough" or do not have enough amount of human resources contained in their education to separately collect waste, then they are free to throw it all together in the same bag or in the same bucket but then the transportation of such waste costs and it costs a lot. So when you set up the concept then it becomes clear at the same time that people will very quickly adopt the humane criteria of separate waste collection because of course it'll mean free disposal, and if they don't adopt those criteria then it'll mean that this waste disposal in this case, no more waste, because when it's all together, then I don't have any more waste than garbage, so the waste disposal will cost them. So setting up concepts in Switzerland in cities ended up in a way that 65% of waste is collected separately at this time, which means practically that out of 100% of municipal waste, only 35% ends in any other way of care whether it was a dump or a burner or any other technological process. So that's what the point is and to explain to us that we actually need to turn all the waste into garbage and then use that garbage as fuel in some burner is actually fooling ourselves because that kind of burner is actually nothing but a poison factory and we all know that it's very dangerous for both human health and the environment. As far as the danger is concerned, there is only one thing that I hold in mind that should be absolutely highlighted in this strategy and much better defined, and that is that when it comes to hazardous waste, I am actually amazed by the fact that the final solution to the disposal is cited by cementers and that cementers in Croatia do not meet either the safety nor environmental standards of the European Union, which is quite certain, while for the final management of the remains of burning such as ash and filters that remain after burning and they also represent dangerous waste less than even more levels than that of hazardous waste that has actually been handled for such, therefore, ashes and filters there is no solution. On top of that, it's... In addition, if deep wells are listed as a solution only for waste from oil mining, the definition of underground dump indicates that it is a deep-seated geological trap exposed by a deep well through which waste is delayed by impression. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] So in my court, there's a danger that this definition has given me a green light for disposal and other types of waste, and not only that of oil mining waste, but what I'm particularly concerned about is potentially hazardous waste, which, for a certain moment, goes out of that kind of care into the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45297	Thank you very much. Now we'd end the debate on this agenda point and move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45298	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the proposal for a waste management strategy for the Republic of Croatia. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45299	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a strategy for waste management of the Republic of Croatia, and I can say that this is a rarely good document that has been professionally and qualityd in my court. He looks at the problem at the highest level of expertise and is in line with the best solutions known today, and gives a quality basis for management, for quality waste management, and in order to protect our most valuable resource, which is the environment. Also, the problem is hierarchically well set from the lowest levels, so from the waste producer to the country itself. It is also introduced into this activity market elements, and this should, however, be very cautious to me, because the market does. However, with universal control because this is nevertheless an activity of particular social interest. On page 53, the entire strategy that speaks clearly of the avoidance, evaluation, disposal of waste as one strategic provision is in fact shown in a way completely. I wouldn't repeat what my colleagues have already said several times about this. However, I would draw attention to some issues that I think are not sufficiently apostropheed in this strategy, which is, firstly, on our islands according to this strategy, there is no landfill. That's good from the point of view of environmental protection, from an environmental point of view, that's a good solution. One question, however, is what about large islands. So in large islands where, say, islands of over 10,000 inhabitants who have a relatively developed economy where waste production is relatively large. The question is whether it will be in practice possible, whether in practice it will be possible to solve waste in this way. In any case, as a native islander, I welcome this solution and advocate that there should be no dump on the islands. However, I do not think that this issue is from a particular distance and complexity of the transport of waste to regional or county dumps sufficiently well worked out. The second question is, it's from a dump in the sea itself, let me put it so vividly. Whoever sails the sea and stays in our coves and bays may unfortunately witness that our coves and bays are often dumps. So, the strategy doesn't treat it, or what about accepting waste from ships? What about the incident situations that can happen in the Adriatic because the Adriatic is a closed little sea and an incident in such a sea can lead to an ecological disaster. Furthermore, the question that I find quite interesting is how to resuscitate wild dumps I speak only in the islands now. It's a karst area. I am a witness to a single study myself, a study of solving the recovery of a wild dump where the local self-government unit signed with the contract fund and considerable funds were obtained. However, the way the resolution is planned is not in line with technological achievements, but only cover is foreseen. So, covering the dumps and in the future embalming the trash and taking it to the central county dump. I think that when solving wild dumps in karst areas, it is important to take great care of the translucent waters. So, that these estimated waters from the dumps don't go underground and pollute anyway, so they're also modest water resources, and besides, they don't pollute the sea. I therefore draw particular attention to this problem that recovery, therefore, must be in line with the technological solutions imposed by the profession. Next, the next question is, what about muddy waste? So wastes from wastewater treatment devices. We already have some cleaning devices in some places, and we know that there is a certain amount of this mud on the devices, and special technology is taking care of it. So, how do you solve him? You know yourself that from 10% to 20% of the amount of waste water waste is then on that mud that you have to admit yourself won't be so easy to solve especially on remote islands, say in Losinj, I don't know these down Vis, etc. The second is a very important issue, which is the price of disposal, so the price of waste disposal. This strategy promotes the principle that the cost of care is paid by whoever produces the waste. I think, in particular, on the Adriatic islands that this claim, that theory, is unsustainable because in that case, the price of disposal and the unit of the waste measure will not know whether it will be a spatial meter, a kilogram or some other measure on the island of Premudi is 25 times higher than in Zagreb. That's inadmissible. Therefore, this activity should be introduced into the Institute of Solidarity and the price of waste disposal should be treated, for example, as is the price of oil and oil derivatives, electricity prices, etc. Because it's inadmissible, so it's inadmissible that the cost of waste disposal on the islands is so much higher than on the continent. So what happens if this principle is paid by the one who produces the waste that it will be. The second question is which I would particularly draw attention to, and that is how to take care of dangerous waste. Dangerous waste is clearly provided for in the combustion plants, i.e. in various other facilities. However, you know that dangerous waste is profitablely very interesting, i.e. no one wants to have it in their environment, and it should be particularly stressed that, in particular, emphasize control, state control of the way of care so that we do not get under the influence of some things that are not good. And at the end of a few words, this strategy, i.e. the financing of the implementation of this strategy, is planned about half of the entrepreneurial resources, so from private sources and the other half from public revenues, would be around 12 billion kuna, in a way that covers one third of the state budget, one third of the Environmental Protection Fund and one third of the local self-government units. I don't think this approach is fair, or it's not sustainable, because we know for ourselves that out of 100 tax revenues 92 goes into the state budget around, and 8 into the budgets of the units of local self-government and regional and I'm afraid that, in this principle, by these thirds, the units of local self-government will not be able to cover the financing of the costs of this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45300	Thank you. Honorable representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Given that the Strategy for the Environment of the Republic of Croatia and the National Environmental Action Plan have found that inadequate waste management is the biggest problem of environmental protection in Croatia, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia have put this problem as one of the priorities in finding a solution with the provision of funds, knowledge and new technologies. I cite this because the problem of waste management will take great proportions unless significant shifts are made spotlessly. The unregulated waste management system is negatively affected by the environment, water, air, air, climate, human health, plant and animal life, and in particular the emphasis of drinking water as one of the fundamental national resources. The adoption of the Waste Law has taken a significant step towards the start of a real solution to this problem, but also the start of harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of waste management and I hope that the process will continue to be adopted by the end of 2006 by the end of the implementation rules and documents. I also consider the vision and priorities of waste management, which are defined as a national priority in the Strategy for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Croatia. The idea of waste management in the Republic of Croatia as so-called a non-depositary concept that seeks as an ideal should certainly be welcomed, and its achievement would require closure of the circle from the avoidance of waste, reduction of quantity and harmfulness, recycling and recovery of any mechanical, biological or energy to the exploitation of the internal residue. Of course we would do the same, it is a prerequisite for permanent education, education, education of all and participation of citizens from the initial phase to the realization of the project and the management itself. So by education and education, we influence our awareness of the need to avoid waste generation as a priority in the modern waste management hierarchy and no less important separate waste collection. It is very important that the public's attitude towards waste is realistically seen and shown and, of course, in its finality and changed because it is mostly negative and results in a reluctance or even hostile attitude towards the location of buildings and waste management facilities which is not new at this time and in this state. Namely, there is no systematic education of the public, of the administration and of the political structures and of the workers in the waste management business. We're facing a situation where waste and waste management are perceived as a problem, but not one of their own, but someone else's to be solved, and it's said that "waste needs to be solved but I'm not going to be in my backyard." This is why conflicts, politics, bickering and not counting appear almost regularly in addressing the problem of waste and achieving sustainable development. Because there are different interests often clashed by even state bodies of units of local self-government, economics, associations, professions, politics, public texts etc. The activities of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund under the landfill recovery programme and the Environment Protection Agency itself, which sets up a waste database, i.e. a landfill cadastre, are certainly what needs to be supported. It is also important that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, together with the Environmental Protection Fund, has in many cases been able to assess decisions made on the ground, spatial and design documents and technical documentation from Environmental Impact Studies to local and building permits, and that funds from the Fund are directed to those who have recognised the problem of waste and set out in its resolution. I must set an example here of the city of Labin and Labinity as a positive example of the co-operation of the unit of local self-government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection along with the Environmental Protection Fund. Taking into account the legislative regulation and the proposed waste management strategy, I would like to believe that the process of education, education, education and waste management will be accelerated to the overall benefit and I believe that the general guidelines of this strategy will be good and that they should be supported in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45302	Thank you very much. We're going to a five-minute club debate. First respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic, the club of HNS representatives of the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45303	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This strategy that I'm saying in advance, we're going to support it, because better than nothing, it sort of solves 15 categories of waste, and we're only discussing communal waste here in principle or what we call squatters down in Dalmatia is home waste, and it seems to me to be the biggest problem. Because all of these other types of waste countries with their interventions and instruments can be better solved than this for the simple reason that this municipal waste is in the jurisdiction of local self-government under all the laws that we have today, and I repeat yesterday it's always the problem of local powers, agreements and finding solutions. When I'm talking about finding a solution then I mean in the front row to the location of any waste center, any sanitary dumps. And we haven't actually solved it, and we're going to have a hard time getting rid of it because as it turns out, no one's going to go to their yard. That's why I'm warning you one more time. In my court of law, the problem should be taken upon itself with a certain vision of the problem in 10, 15 years, solved at 4 to 5 locations throughout the country of regional centres. And that's the measure Europe has today. In fact, there are 80 locations for 85 million Germans where waste is treated. There have been other space stories here about how it's possible to separate on the spot or at the site of the waste, so there's no remainder. You know that's not possible, you all have that garbage bag yourself, so try to think about it, and when you separate all the newspapers and everything else and put it in paper recycling, what's left of it? Again, you always have one ton per 4 inhabitants per year. And without treatment for thermal treatment, it's a non-small fuel section, which is 50% of which has no solution. Of course, I repeat once again, the best way to do it is to do it in cement stores because, well, we're lucky that in three regions we have cementers that work. The state can force owners with some extra rent to use as alternative fuel. And I think we should have the courage and the political will to see the problem at the end of the 10 to 15 years that we should have and to approach it that way. It's clearly not going to be easy to operate, or it's easy to get in line, or in 10 to 15 years because we're starting from scratch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45304	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Ivan Kolar. It's an HSS rep club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45305	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the ministry. Here in these few minutes on the proposal for a waste management strategy I think it's mostly the awareness of all of us that the problem is burning. Yeah, he's getting bigger every day and the problem needs to be tackled a little harder. This waste management strategy actually gives us hope that we are on the right track to start solving the problem. I'm talking, it starts because we're really like my previous ones said, just in the beginning. We at the HSS Club think that a structured and well-prepared strategy has been prepared for implementation. However, if there are no further implementing acts and the measures that follow them, then it will remain as a wishful dream, let go of dreams. That's why it would be a good idea if the state were stronger, I speak louder, determined to solve this problem. And that's only possible if you're providing funds, multiple assets than they are now. It's already said who has any authority and I'm one of the leaders, the head of a municipality where all competences come to the local community, and where the funds don't flow in the same way. And that's where the problem is. How to solve a problem? Locally, while fiscal policy is globally centralised. And I think there were good suggestions, that's what to think about. Finally, one, one, one, or 30, 30, because it's impossible to implement on the ground. Namely, that kind of waste management if we call it waste, if we don't start treating it as an economic activity, then it's a burden and we certainly don't have a solution for now, we don't have that kind of resources. Therefore, it would be better not to treat the implementing acts as a recovery, as a waste disposal than an important economic branch which is a business, a big business for our neighbouring countries, but in Austria. And that's how you start treating it. As far as we're prepared to deal with this moment, it's a story to itself. There is still a small influence of the local community in this Strategy. In fact, it is said that in determining the location, whether it is regional, whether it is any garbage dump, that it is politically starting to crack. It's because we're not ready and prepared with technology, the way we handle it, and it's not the awareness of our citizens that this very economic activity is supposed to be. If it's just pollution of the terrain for or better devastation of the terrain, clearly no one in their backyard will. But if it is an economic branch that employs, which in a good way takes care of and ultimately has economic effects, then it should be an important branch of activity. So let the strategy be supported as it is now. I say, in principle, she does well all, however, implementing acts that follow, way of taking care of the selection technology. Here, we're only in this assembly one part of the way we've already faced whether it's warm or this way, is it possible by separating or not by separating municipal and other wastes that we can do it. We have to have a strategic definition of what kind of care is, and it's a unified way, that it doesn't happen to us 20 kilometers or 50 kilometers, one way, the other way, and now the whole strategy is going down and actually not the right way to take care of it. So in this second step that is now following this, it is more important than this first step and there should be a consistent central state and give one impulse, so to speak, in the way that it takes care of it all together. But first of all, the accent to give it to be an economic branch that isn't actually shown at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45306	Thank you very much. Club DC, HSLS and LS, respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45307	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Our club has spoken its views, given support to this strategy. However, I will take advantage of my opportunity, this 5-minute debate actually to highlight a problem that is not mentioned in this strategy. In fact, I've read a lot of the whole material, nowhere to mention this problem. Last year, the Association of Olivers, Oilers and olive grove producers of Croatia sent a letter to the Office of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy, and to the Ministry of Justice regarding the problem of the coma treated as technological waste in the Waste Act. Clearly, if it is so defined and classified, it also generates adequate obligations for olivers to store the komina as a technological waste in an appropriate manner, appropriate places. If they don't, there's a lot of punishment. So we don't actually have it here in this strategy, but we actually have it in our lives, we have it in the law, and surely this strategy or the laws will have to be brought into line with this strategy itself. And this is the problem, one particular problem that people have in one activity. We have this strategy of storage, related to waste and waste management, on the other hand we have a development strategy, that is, the development... in Croatia, therefore, these two strategies should be kind of complementary, that is, not against each other's words. According to the current Croatian law... belongs to the category of technological waste and, as such, it is prohibited to deposit anywhere except for official waste dumps, hence, appropriate county services in local communities that care and problems and prescribe in fact the basis of the Waste Act that they should be appropriate landfills or composting sites, where the coma would be delayed, however, since little where there is, for example, in Dalmatia, it seems to be delayed in those trenches, spears where the cement can be removed, it is still not defined as an official disposal or composting site of waste, people find themselves in different ways. Either they throw it in the sea or they put it on private land and that's why we haven't solved the problem, and when our inspections come across such a thing, then the oilies pay such great fines. The Technological Chemical Institute of Split has made one analysis, I have here that is confirmed by scientific studies that the chimney is not needed and cannot be waste, that it is actually raw materials for production, can be used as fuel, can be used as fertilizer, can be used as food, we have one bright example, one program that in the Primorje-Gorskin County has developed and it is worked out that it is food for game delaying also in the woods, and there is a intention to create a complete strategy of using the coma. Here, it was my contribution in the end, a desire for the Ministry to still hear the voice of the oliver and to try some adequately foreseeable time to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45308	Thank you very much. Final review of Secretary of State Nikola Ruzynski's election.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45309	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would first of all like to thank you really for this great support, it is nice to listen to this broad debate with the praises you have given to this Strategy. It is also an extraordinary pleasure to hear your proposals that are often made even to professional proposals so that they will complete our work on the future implementation of this Strategy. Here, really, thank you. However, I would now take advantage of the opportunity and in a few minutes give you just a few references to the main items that you mentioned to us, first of all it is the primary separation, or separate collection that is a prerequisite for recycling, the esteemed representative of Rozic I do not see here, so I would draw attention to the transfer, and watch the transfer, well then watch the transfer, so he has turned a few times attention to it, however, it is highlighted in the Strategy and that is the basic principle of this strategy, if it is not quite seen to read or if there are any problems about it I will gladly either one of us talk to him or to the club, so we will say it. Evidence of primary extraction and this Regulation on packaging and packaging waste which has just entered into force at the start phase where a good part of the waste will be around 30% of the volume of waste which today ends at all these unregulated landfills is packaging and packaging waste. Dear gentlemen and ladies, today in the Republic of Croatia, a billion and a half different bottles are placed on the market. About one billion ends where one part of those unsettled dumps stays around. Therefore, by introducing the packaging and packaging waste rules, we will already take one big step in the separation of primary waste separation and separation of waste clearly that both the basis of the entire system and the separation of households with more or less successes that we will achieve. All of this that is related to recycling is a major contribution to increasing employment which some of you respected MPs pointed out specifically so that it is also an integral part of this Strategy. The wage polluter principle is the basis without which we will not be able to solve all this and I sincerely thank you for supporting us in this. In all this, we must clearly take care of real costs because real costs are the basis of implementation, real cost of care, waste management is the basis for implementation of this Strategy. In doing so, what is more representatives, representatives of clubs and Committees on Tourism, the Committee on Environmental Protection and we must take care of the islands. Surely we will take care of the islands, the islands cannot come to a worse position because there will be no delays or dumps on those islands. There will be a transfer of the yard recycling station depending on the size of the island, the disposal of the dump will go according to all the rules of the profession, all the projects that are being carried out in the review, to the review before they are carried out, to this day we have two examples of the Olib and Molat's recovery was made, there can be seen that there is a concern of very much... water and environmental protection. Agricultural waste has been mentioned several times, here is counterpart Piploic now mentioning the coma. It is said that agriculture, that we put in the Strategy that what is waste, straws that it is not waste, is unfortunately, today it is waste, today it is also a chimney of olives that is very problematic waste on islands. It smells like it afterwards, the chimney represents one valuable energy raw material and there are already interested investors who will make energy raw materials out of it. Not to mention waste, animal waste, biogas production, biofuel production, bio diesel that poses even one challenge to agriculture today when more and more energy prices are rising, oil prices are rising. We are exactly the Ministry of Finish and will soon refer to the Government's regulation on the use of biofuels, on the quality of biofuels according to this, all of what we're talking about will be at the heart of this. The important thing was regional and county dumps, i.e. the reduction of the number of dumps, the distinguished representative Marasovic mentioned several times that it would be realistic to count on 4 to 5 landfills in the state, I fully agree, the esteemed representative Trakostanec even set an example of a system that is likely to be realized in northwestern Croatia. I'm asking you on behalf of the Ministry to give us support that the number of dumps is not 21 but that it is less and we expect your great support. As far as technology is concerned, about the burning and the burner, we've heard different attitudes. Everything can't be solved without burning, we have dangerous waste, we have medicines, for example, that we export neatly to Austria, we pay big money to burn it in the center of a city under all kinds of protection, quality, technologies that are extremely high. We also have opportunities with us, we have a reconstruction of a burner in Sisak, a small burner in Herbos, we have problems with the completion of a burner that has been standing ready for several years, but in Zagreb a burner is being prepared, but it is high technologies. The point is that, when we enter into the negotiations today, a lot of talk will have to be made when we enter the door of the European Union. The IPPS directive, therefore, environmental permit, pollution control without which no major industrial energy plant will be able to operate. So, by the quality of our devices, according to the quality of the burner, it may be present today, but very, very quickly, no one meets the high standards of environmental protection will be able to accidentally process it. However, in particular, in the overall solution for the whole state without a burner, it can only be solved in such a way that we continue to give great money, and we burn it right across the border, clearly receiving everything that is coming, but it is not a threat to the environment. But this strategy is not based on waste burning. No, this strategy is not based on "all waste is garbage," as it is said, because it cannot be read in this strategy. But well, I mean, not all of us can support us, there must be different opinions. Education and the public as one thing you all mention, clear education from kindergarten further through the regular system, public inclusion is the basis. And here it is, I'd end up with that we're going to introduce all the corrections that you've told us in the final text, that we're going to accept all your proposals through the plan and the program, and I'm going to appeal once again to your help in the most complex systems, which is to ensure that the pollutant pays, that everyone in the waste chain is going through, so from the manufacturer, the trader to the consumer, that you give us in this support and especially to support us in the spatial plans and to determine the location which is a personal serious problem. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45310	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a strategy for waste management of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the text of the Strategy is over. The amendment was submitted by the esteemed representative Antun Perusko. I'm asking Secretary of State Nikola Ruzhinski to be seen on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We cannot accept this amendment because the proposal is not in line, it is not a matter regulated by the Waste Act on which the Strategy is based. We can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45313	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45314	Thank you, Mr. President. The sole intention was to complete one otherwise good document in this legislative framework. It's a protocol, a dumping protocol, a protocol to prevent pollution of the Mediterranean Sea, and the Adriatic is part of that sea. And precisely for attaching importance, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45315	And I'm sorry, do you want to, uh, ask for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45316	Yeah, yeah, I'm asking for a vote, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-12-0.u45317	Thank you. Please engage. We can vote. The result? In conclusion 26, four abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on a proposal from the Strategy. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that, with 76 votes for, 11 abstentions, the proposed Strategy has been adopted.
