ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39387	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. Nine. Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, which is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a decision on the compensation of part of the funds for the import of a private car in the amount of value added tax for 2005. – Proposer Vesna Pusić; The Concealing Officer is Mrs. Vesna Pusic. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and their reports you received at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the motionary want to explain further? Yeah. The word has Mrs. Vesna Pusic and the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Mrs. Wesna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies from the government. First of all, the initiative is de facto to propose such a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, which would oblige the Government to help, equalise the status of disabled persons in at least one dimension in Croatia. He came from several sources. One of the initiators was young Mr. Tkalec, who was alone in such a situation and who addressed the office at the beginning of the third month, then the Society of Physical Disabilities from Pula and the Croatian Association of Body Disabilities who all had very constructive proposals related to this conclusion, initiated and supported it, and I think that this is among other things one of the important functions of Parliament in general and of course our Parliament, which is representing the interests of citizens and keeping an eye on the interests of citizens other than the natural design of the conceptual development of the country in this legal sense, which is also the responsibility of the Parliament. What conclusion it is. It is, of course, something that is not entirely new. That conclusion was reached by the Government in 2003, and it is realised. The conclusion that I remind you is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is bound to make a decision during 2005 on the compensation of part of the funds for the import of a private car at the level of paid tax for an additional value for 2005. The decision will lay down the conditions and procedure for the provision of a part of the amount of the tax paid to persons with disabilities for the import of a passenger car for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005. Such a decision was made in the tenth month of 2003 and is realised. What exactly is this about? I'd say two things. First in Croatia, of course, there is already a group of people with disabilities who have the right to do so and it is justified that they have the right to do so. They're Croatian military disabled. As is known, I do not think there is any doubt that in modern conditions and in the modern state, the main function of social policy is not mercy, not giving to anyone anything, but the main function is to equalise or at least approximate the equalization of all citizens in their ability to live normally and to normally participate in their working and public lives. Thus, this type of help enables people with disabilities to participate in both their work and their public life. People who, in Croatian legislation, are integrated one, one unacceptable criterion, which is that the rights of persons with disabilities are not defined by the basis of the degree of disability, but are defined by the basis of the origin of disability which is absolutely unacceptable and should be intervened in this legislation. It is clear that if the state wants to be able and should be compensated with a thank-you sign, it should provide additional assistance to people who have participated in the defence of the country and thus become disabled, but it has nothing to do with the assistance they have as disabled persons who are given to them and should be given to all persons with disabilities so that they can participate equally or at least equally in normal everyday life and in public life. Therefore, this right has been extended by Croatian wartime disableds and this conclusion extends one part of that right to persons with the same degree of disability who are not wartime military disabled, but have acquired their disability either by birth, in any other way, but of course he does not mind or is not an obstacle to regular participation in everyday life. So our goal is something that we have already accepted in this House as a conclusion in the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities where it is explicitly said to promote and ensure the rights of persons with disabilities and equality in the rights of military and civilian persons as disabled regardless of the time of origin and the cause of disability. So that's the conclusion that we in this House have already accepted the Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. With this conclusion, the Croatian Parliament would stick first to its own decisions already made. Secondly, the civilization standard that this type of aid is not, it must not be, the state has no right or act as if it were a mercy or mercy to persons with disabilities, but it is a direct obligation of the state to ensure civil equality for all, of course, in that case and persons with disabilities. And thirdly, it would naturally be a temporary measure. It has no doubt that Croatian legislation in this respect requires much more serious intervention and structural intervention, so laws should be amended. But until the laws are amended, this decision would allow one injustice to be corrected and the views already defined and voted in the framework of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to be followed. The government's opinion that you've all got on the bench is negative. It is negative despite the position that the Assembly has already voted and, despite the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, is committed to persons with disabilities who also insist on equating persons with disabilities and, of course, their full inclusion. Two arguments made by the Government in its position that it proposes not to accept, i.e. to reject the conclusion that persons with disabilities are entitled to forgiveness or return of VAT on the purchase of a vehicle. One is that there is no provision in the law that defines it. In other words, which determines that VAT should be returned to disabled persons and another argument is that there is no money. It's a classic argument. But let's start from the first. Of course, there is no provision in the Law relating to VAT which would oblige the State to repay people with disabilities, to civilian people with disabilities, to purchase cars. That's why we're proposing this conclusion. If it were in the law, and it should be, then this conclusion shouldn't be, so they wouldn't suggest it. Therefore, the argument is not necessary because it does not exist in the law is a circulatory and invalid argument because the conclusion is precisely why it is not in the law. The second argument is there's no money. You all got on the benches, i.e. in your boxes the annual accounts of the State budget for 2004. In 2003, when this conclusion was reached, when the Government reached such a conclusion, and in 2003 when this conclusion was applied without any criteria, so without any restrictions, it was spent, or that means it needed an eye, some more than 16 million kuna. So keep in mind when administering VAT refund to all without distinction, without a criterion of 16 million kuna. At this time in the document that you all have on you, therefore, the annual accounts of the State budget for 2004, at the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, are located in relation to the planned funds of an additional 143 million 883 thousand 391 kuna, and at the position of the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity just over 26 million kuna. Therefore, in both cases, even if this conclusion was applied without restrictions, as was the case with that 2003 conclusion, there was money. The document we received on the benches here in the Assembly shows that in the positions of these two ministries there are funds to cover these costs and that there is no need to change the structure of the budget from the position of one ministry to the other but to exist in the positions of that ministry of funds. Therefore, I think that shows that this argument does not stand. I must say that in talks with representatives of disabled associations, especially the Croatian Federation of Body Disabilities, it is suggested and is an integral part of this second part of the conclusion, it is suggested that in order to avoid any abuse of such a conclusion that solid criteria are drawn up until, of course, legislation is changed, so that solid criteria for the application of this conclusion are drawn up for the exercise of these rights. So, let's say, introduce a criterion that applies to disabled persons or who are alone in a working relationship or who work more than 4 or 5 hours a day on jobs related to the work of a disabled association or other part-time work. And that a person who wishes to exercise that right must be accompanied by such a certificate. Or if it's about students, students or people who regularly go to therapy for health reasons. Therefore, the introduction of criteria that would facilitate control against the abuse of such a conclusion and, on the other hand, would automatically reduce the resources necessary for the realization of such a conclusion. The funds needed when there were no restrictions, therefore, were no additional criteria of any kind, nor were there 16 million kunas. We in position today, if we use the criteria will obviously be less than 16 million kuna. Some predictions won't allow it to exceed 10 million kunas. Today, at the position of the Ministry and Social Care, we have 143 million and 883 thousand, etc., which, for 2004, according to the state budget. So in that position, these funds exist, and there are adequate funds at the position of this second ministry. Therefore, I think we have a chance before the law is passed, and of course we need to go towards a change of legislation and I absolutely agree if any of the clubs or if we agree by common consensus to add that part of the conclusion, that the government is obliged to prepare amendments to the legislation. So, we have the opportunity to do with the means that exist, apparently black on white, for 2004 to do something that is not only in line with the decisions and attitudes that have already been voted in this House, which is not only in line with the European Union Declarations and standards by which we are oriented and whose standards we want to implement. It is in line with fundamental social justice and with the fundamental function of the state, which is the right of all to civil equality. This, of course, will not guarantee the full extent of these rights, much work is needed to ensure that people in their rights are even. But it'll be a step in the right direction. It's not a political decision, it doesn't refer to something that's a matter of political competition, I'd say it's a civilization decision, if you have ideas to be fixed, in order to make any contribution to its quality absolutely welcome. I am thanking my colleague, Vesni Škulić, who has helped us to think about the articulation of this decision, so I ask you to support it not as something that is subject to a political competition whose representative I am, and I believe that it is healthy and responsible in parliament, but rather a civilization step that I am sure will contribute to making a structural civilizational step, in other words, that this is not only solved by decisions as it must be when there is no appropriate legislation, but also to enter into a change of legislation in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39389	Thank you, dear colleague Pusic. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39390	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegation of distinguished counterpart Vesna Pusic, which she said all Croatian military disabled in the Homeland War have tax relief on the import of a private car. Unfortunately, it's not true. This right is achieved only by 80, 90 and 100% disabled other group, with damage, with this degree of physical damage provided that they have damaged their lower extremities, even the blind 100% disabled second group, our right to import a personal car, therefore it is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39391	Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does a representative of the government want to take a word for it? Yeah. State Secretary Dorica Nikolic please have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39392	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. You heard from Mrs Vesna Pusic's statement that the government had its opinion that this conclusion should not be accepted. I am obliged to say that the provisions of the Value Added Tax Act are not... the exemption from paying value added tax on persons with disabilities, which imports or abroad are obtained by persons with disabilities and the return of value added tax to disabled persons who imported a personal car or obtained it abroad from the position of funds from the state budget are not prescribed by the law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. We must say that these 16 million 565 thousand were the funds that were allocated on the basis of the government's conclusion, which came into force in 2003 on 10 October 2003 and were resolved according to those requirements, which could have been made from 1 January to 31 December 2003, followed in 2003 by 207 requests, in 2004. 914, and 2005. 150 because some others complemented the requirements that were attached in 2004. So, I have to repeat that, and thus, by January 25, 2005, a fee was paid, part of the funds for the import of a private car. And since I repeat, for 2005, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia has not provided funds for these purposes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that it is not possible to support the proposal in question. It only says this from technical data, because there is no such thing in the budget, however, I must stress that the government supports everything we have said about equalising rights and that we have guided the guidelines of the National Strategy for a Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities. I must point out here that when there was a statement on the 2003 conclusion that after that it was true, there was an observation from many associations and individuals that the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia made in 2003 was that there were insufficient criteria and that there could be the exploitation of the rights that people with disabilities have in this way. In the meantime, I say, no request has been made for a new decision or came from the constituency benches one proposal to change the criteria, or any other decision has not been made for 2005 in the budget of certain funds. It's a pure technique of the budget, and the rest remain one for this Parliament and for the government to listen to what you and your bodies will eventually decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39393	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is Madam Representative Vesna Škulić, on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39394	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. If it wasn't this tragic, it would have been very comical since none of us thought to refer the bill to it because the government didn't remember it, and it was her duty to remember this category of citizens. So despite the constant progress and the adoption of positive laws, unfortunately in the area of integration many people with disabilities still feel exposed to discrimination. This is why great efforts are being made towards achieving a policy of equal opportunities. So here we're talking about equal opportunities policy, and we're all entitled to the same right. As a country, we must continue to pass legislation aimed at discrimination, preferential treatment and compensatory measures in order to approach the principle of equal opportunities. The Council of Europe recommended to governments the application of a balanced mixed policy of legislative and other measures aimed at eliminating disability-based discrimination in order to achieve full civil rights of persons with disabilities. And what we do. Before us is a Benign document of the Croatian Parliament's proposal for a conclusion, which is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a decision on the compensation of part of the funds for the import of passenger cars at the level of the loss paid to the added value. Unfortunately, in this proposal, the Government did not recognise one of the fundamental rights and that is the right to move and to be accessible, so the government's argument simply does not hold water. We are aware that the right to import a personal car for disabled persons has been misused, but I do not understand why people with disabilities were then punished and not those who needed to ensure a system of protection of the exercise of this right. In 2003, the last government made a decision on the compensation of part of the funds for the import of a private car in value added tax for 2003. According to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, 1307 applications were received and resolved in 1293. 88 requests denied as unfounded. For 1159 users, the total was returned to the amount of paid value added tax somewhere around 16 million kuna. We see that it is neither a large number of requests nor a large budget item. Unfortunately, it is about good will and the way in which people with disabilities problems are respected in the Republic of Croatia. We have plenty of room to rely on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in which, under Article 14(1) and Article 57(2), rights and freedoms are guaranteed and the need for special care for persons with disabilities and their inclusion in social life is stressed. We can also refer to the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in which anti-discrimination measures are highly highlighted. We can refer to a national strategy of a single policy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 which clearly defines as one of the measures equalising the rights of persons with disabilities, which is why it would also tell Mr Kovacevic that disabled people of the Homeland War, so 100% of people with disabilities in the Homeland War, are entitled every seven years, so the state buys them a car and therefore, at a full price, frees them from everything. Invaluables II. The categories of the Homeland War, from 80 to 100% physical damage, also have that right that they have limited movement. Unfortunately, civilian people with disabilities have no right. We can also appeal to common sense and logic and ultimately to our social sensitivity. The only thing we cannot call upon and accept is that the state currently has no money and that this decision will be taken as soon as the state provides the funds for it. We're aware that it doesn't happen most of the time, but there's money. Can you imagine parents who have two children in a wheelchair and it is common that children with cerebral paralysis in one family are therefore one and more children with cerebral paralysis or with muscle dystrophy their agony of everyday life and inability to move because they cannot provide adequate transportation for their children. It is more than exclusive to be a person with disabilities here in Zagreb. But let's turn around in Croatia and see what the real situation is. We can imagine young people who would like to join the regular system and can't because of transportation. People in wheelchairs who could even get a job and have no way of getting to their jobs. Whether we are a society that wants to integrate this population, provide them with a minimum of human rights, or we will easily go over everything and say that in one of the laws it is not envisaged and then do nothing. If this is not enough for us, we can call for a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which during 2003, accepted the adoption of a short-term VAT refund solution for 2003 but also sought the conclusion that was made. So, right now, I also deny Mrs Nikolic that it was not debated and that it was not an initiative to approach a permanent solution because, at that session in 2003, at one of the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission, it was the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on issues of persons with disabilities that reached the conclusion of a law that would have clear measures and criteria for the release of VAT on an imported vehicle. The vehicle for people with disabilities who have difficulty moving was necessarily orthopedically assisted and is otherwise treated in some European countries of the type of England. So, that person who has interference in the moving organs to provide her car as an orthopedic aid. The right to support in obtaining this aid is significant to persons with disabilities because it enables them to have the same legal position, independence, social integration and participation in the life of the community to which Article 26. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. So, in our efforts to get as close to the European Union as possible, it seems to me that this would be to say a little step in our little step or a small step in that approach. Therefore, the number of people with disabilities who need support from the state in the purchase of the vehicle is certainly not high. I note once again that this decision would respect the guidelines of the national single policy strategy for persons with disabilities on equalisation of rights. It would also support the right to move and make life easier for users of this right. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this conclusion but to pass a system law for the following year which will allow disabled persons to apply VAT exemption rights for the purchase or import of cars, according to established criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39395	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the promoter, Vice-President of the House Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just have to remind myself that on 20 January 2005, the Government adopted the Regulation on the conditions and procedure for achieving the customs and tax reliefs of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and, among other things, Article 2 of the Croatian Military Disabilities from the Homeland War from 2nd to 4th group of damage to the organism resulting in damage to the function of extremity or visual impairment. So nothing else regarding VAT release is required by this conclusion or by civil people with disabilities. So in these categories 100% of colleagues, Škuljic said they have group status. From 2nd to 4th, therefore, which, where the result is the damage to extremes or visions have the right to release VAT by the same criteria and in the same way as the wartime military disabled, which I think is in itself should be understandable and is a step in equating. I must also point out that given what Mrs Nikolic said on behalf of the government here. I don't think it can be claimed that the government supports equalising opportunities, equality of disabled persons and their chances of participation in life from day to day, their chances of being able and there's no possibility or desire to show in this case I'd say in the first place a good will to make at least this symbolic step. This is a symbolic step, people, of course it is symbolic and will help a little disabled people who belong in these categories. It will help them to move if we accept these criteria for which this conclusion absolutely has space. So, to ensure against abuse, because in this conclusion they are proposed to be clearly defined by the competent ministry, so that the government can clearly define the criteria so as to avoid abuse. So this is about one symbolic little step but each time it starts with the first step, so let's just make this one such step along the way so that people with disabilities, civil people with disabilities start equating or at least draw closer to some chance to equalize themselves in possibilities. There is no government that can claim nor has that person who can claim I am for the equality of these people but I don't give them a little step, I don't give them any small segment of money that we've established in the annual accounts of the state budget that there are funds in the positions of the relevant ministries. And besides, as everyone knows, the rebalance of the state budget is coming. So, and that rebalancing is obvious that these funds can be secured and black on white, people say whatever you want, say nothing, say anything, but don't say no money because money has black on white. The papers the government sent us show there's money. That's what he's got money for. If there's any other argument, tell him, but the money's not an argument. This kind of inclusion or at least a goodwill that shows the willingness to engage is doing much more than realising their own decisions on the inclusion of civilian people and people with disabilities at all. In this, in this move is one important segment whether we are a healthy modern society or not, in other words, whether we want to be a society that is flexible enough to have space, have strength, have the ability to involve all its citizens equally and give everyone equal chances. A society that has no sensitivity for those who need the most to meet not to have privileges but just to have as many equal chances as possible, such society is not healthy modern society. So here we have a chance to do something that is positive, which is good for all of Croatia, which is good for the idea of a modern fair society in general and of course what is good for these people. In my opinion, it's a task and people have money. Repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39397	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We're having a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39398	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, certainly that the proposal for a tax reduction law is good and, in general, every tax reduction is very good and very popular especially when it comes to reducing taxes for, from importing cars for disabled persons and as a human, and I believe that all of you as advocates would be the happiest that we do not have a disabled person at all, or at least that the State budget is so capable that all disabled persons can buy and donate cars every seventh year as well as the 100% disabled Homeland War that they certainly deserve. The proposal suggests that in 2003, the government decided to release VAT payments for people with disabilities in that year. I wonder why it didn't happen in 2000, 2001, 2003? He's leading me down as a man, 2002? It lists me as a man, in 2003 an election year, so let's give a little regret and use the disabled for political purposes and free them in that year and give VAT for the purchase of cars either abroad or abroad. Also, unfortunately, I may be wrong, and I wish I was wrong, and it happens this year in the fourth month, a month before the local elections again, a proposal to exempt from taxes on imports of cars for disabled persons and again a month before the election. I'm saying I wish I wasn't right about my thinking. It's strange that the Proposition of the Liberation Act comes retroactively, that it comes in the middle of a budget year. I believe that all together, both the position and the opposition, should approach this problem more specifically. Make a law that will not be retroactively applied but a law for the future and for the improvement of all disabled people in our country of Croatia. A law that will solve this problem and also exempt taxes for importing cars or procurement abroad for disabled persons, by category rather than using it for political purposes. The Croatian Democratic Community's club will therefore not support the proposal of this law but will advocate a full adoption in the future of this law which will solve the mentioned problem because I remember, I am not so young, 15 years ago and many years ago in the press: "The grandmother drives the Kawasaki, Grandpa drives the Ferrari" or something like that. I don't think that's necessary for us, and especially for our disabled, and for that reason, I support joining the creation of a whole law that would resolve the adoption of this law, and also its supervision in its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39399	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. On behalf of the HSP Club, a respected colleague Oh, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Corrections, corrections.]] Corrections to a non-tropic quote. Take it easy. First, colleague Vesna Škulić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39400	Thank you very much. I do not think this was a political decision in 2003, nor was it a motive politically given that it was adopted on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities, therefore as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And it was brought not out of politics but out of need. For the real reason that the disabled at the end of the 1990s were punished, so people with disabilities were punished for the inability of the government to control the import system or VAT collection on imports of cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39401	Thank you, dear colleague Škulić. It's a good thing politics recognized needs. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39402	It's incorrect what my colleague said. First of all, he didn't know it was here, because he didn't even read what it was about, so he says the HDZ Club is going to reject this bill. It's not about the law of colleagues at all, it's about the conclusion and it's very short, so you've had time to read it, not politicize it. It was also a shameless lie that taught what partially corrected counterpart Škulić in 2003 that the coalition government manipulated and exploited disabled people for this purpose. So you measure yourself with your own elbow, and where do you get lucky in this way? You take advantage of not only the disabled but all those who... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, you have corrected an incorrect quote.]] [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39403	Correction of the incorrect quote, correction of the incorrect quote Marin Jurjevic. Here you go. Correction of the incorrect quote Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39404	The Honorable Vice President is not the correct quote of fellow Vucicians that disabled people here are used for political purposes. Then every time a legal initiative is given in the House for the benefit of a group of citizens, we could say it is used for political purposes. I don't think that's just not correct, but it's not allowed in such a way to discuss it, not particularly in the name of a party's club, and especially not the ruling party. You openly said HDZ wouldn't accept that. So the government will refuse. Before you ask yourself why the government is taking such a stand against this group of citizens, and your statement or adulation when you said "Bama drives a kawasaki, Grandpa Ferrari" is offensive absolutely because it alluds to someone using this for smuggling. I'm sorry, it's an insult to all the disabled, and I think we should apologize to them for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39405	You corrected the incorrect quote and spent much more time explaining the correcting of the incorrect quote than necessary, but it is your right to use your time. Dear colleague Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39406	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. The Croatian party club will support the proposal for this conclusion but first we think there is something to clarify but don't say there is no money because the money is black on white. The papers the government sent us show there's money. That's what he's got money for. If there's any other argument, tell him, but the money's not an argument. This kind of inclusion or at least a goodwill that shows the willingness to engage is doing much more than realising their own decisions on the inclusion of civilian people and people with disabilities at all. In this, in this move is one important segment whether we are a healthy modern society or not, in other words, whether we want to be a society that is flexible enough to have space, have strength, have the ability to involve all its citizens equally and give everyone equal chances. A society that has no sensitivity for those who need the most to meet not to have privileges but just to have as many equal chances as possible, such society is not healthy modern society. So here we have a chance to do something that is positive, which is good for all of Croatia, which is good for the idea of a modern fair society in general and of course what is good for these people. In my opinion, it's a task and people have money. Repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39407	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Inaccurately, Mr Kovacevic said what it says on the guarantee card. He obviously didn't read it well, and he doesn't know what it says. So, his quote was incorrect, and he could still have been with HDZ in power and realized some of those programmes he's talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39409	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39410	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we have anything to collect daily political points on this subject, because in the Croatian Parliament, it is primarily a task to create legislative frameworks by which all citizens must equally be able to apply the rights that they belong by law. So, I don't think these shootings lead to anything and this is too serious a very socially sensitive and socially fair part of the population that we can't really play with. First I do not want to prove it, it will be the Croatian Party of Retired People during years of action in the future to prove its social justice, and in some ways in spite of all those who are strictly trying to show us. We have a very social dimension, very much our social sensitivity, and among other things, we have already raised these issues in this House. I'll remind you a little bit later. But at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend the Vice-President of this House, Mrs Vesna Pusic, on the initiative launched, because if we once reject this proposal and put it under the rug, then it is very likely that nothing will happen for a long time. I wouldn't speculate at all whether it was given before in the parliamentary procedure before the local elections or not. I think it's our duty for the MPs to start the initiatives, to push and fight for fair relations, that is, the law that I've already said that gives everyone equal chances. Therefore, from that position, I am grateful to my colleague for starting on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS debate on this issue. I recall not so long ago in front of the Croatian Retirement Party that was on November 3, 2004, I asked the parliamentary question to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, vice-presidents of the government. I'm quoting. According to the provisions of the Customs Code, a disabled person with 100% physical impairment or at least 80% of the physical impairment of the function of a moving body is entitled to release from customs when importing a car for personal use. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, by means of a regulation on the conditions and procedures for granting exemption from customs duty from 25 September 2003, further specificises potential useful users and determines the variants of car use. It defines the shortest time limit within which the right can be consumed and defines the necessary documentation and marking of such a vehicle. This Regulation shall apply from 1 November 2003. On 2 October 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the compensation of part of the funds for the import of a private car at the level of value added tax for 2003 to people with disabilities when importing a personal car. I hereby prove my claim that the law has already been applied, that we are not talking about some new imaginary right, but the law has already been applied. We must face the fact that the right is consummated and that this right had what was said on the committee's debate and its black side, or bad practice, which we must also in some way diagnose and sanction. This right could also be consumed retroactively from 1 January to 31 December 2003. The Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 8 February 2004 established the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities who have particularly prominent obligations to comply with legal and other rules in the function of improving the living conditions of persons with disabilities. I've made this particularly clear. Despite what is said, there are a number of serious bureaucratic obstacles to the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities on imports of personal cars. That is why I asked the Madam, then the Vice-President when people with disabilities will be able to exercise their rights uninterrupted and in the context of whether this Government will also by decision or other act regulate the release of persons with disabilities from the payment of VAT for the current year, and because, in the meantime, they are also imposed excise duties which are not exempt under the Tax Act. At that session, at that current afternoon, the Deputy Prime Minister, or Minister, said the following. Mr. Representative, you have well concluded that the government has established this Committee that works and I am sure that the results of this work will be both the answer and that it will partially answer the questions you have asked. As far as I know customs duties have been released all the cars of European manufacturers so that I believe that this is partly satisfying, that is, the answer to a part of your question, and as far as other issues are concerned, I agree that there are many problems that really need to be solved. I believe it will be the Committee and the Committee of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities who must meet by 3.12. On an international day, people with disabilities, come out with some very concrete suggestions. I can't make a preliminary ruling right now, but I have just announced an initiative for the procedure, that is, by the law that we would have sent into the procedure. The Attorney General's Law on Persons with Disabilities, and I believe in it, and I repeat once again to 3.12. That this Committee you mention, which was founded by the Government and the Committee of the Government for Persons with Disabilities, will also answer these questions that you have asked today. I agree with you, there's a lot of problems, but they certainly can't get rid of it right now and they can't solve it in 10 months. We have decided to solve many of these problems for people with disabilities by the end of the term of office. I will not repeat that I have expressed disagreement with the state, with bureaucratic problems, commending every initiative because here the Deputy Prime Minister has tied himself to specific dates. I asked for a written reply, of course, and I will quote it: "to the parliamentary question of the excerpt from the phonogram of the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament, held on 3 November 2004, Silvana Hrelje, representative in the Croatian Parliament, set up in accordance with articles 180, etc., Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I submit the following answer. The Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities at the 3rd session held on 16 November 2004 established a working group for the creation of a proposal for criteria for the exemption from value added tax for persons with disabilities in the import of a personal car whose task is to develop a criteria proposal and to find opportunities for amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. In addition to this, in line with the conclusion of the Government of Croatia's Committee on Persons with Disabilities at the next session, the Assistant Minister of Finance will be invited to further clarify the possibilities of the criteria for the exemption from value added tax for persons with disabilities when importing a personal car and the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Value Added Tax." So, according to these answers, this should seem to be in full swing, that this problem should already be solved and that there should be no problem with accepting this conclusion now, because new criteria and new legislation should be regulated by now. However, we are faced with the fact that there are no new criteria, changes and additions to any of these laws mentioned here are not addressed to the parliamentary procedure. I have to say, I don't see this as a certain privilege to disabled people. This is sort of an orthopedic aid, this may be a means to help in the life of the disabled to maintain a normal quality of life of the disabled and from that position I believe that it must not be manipulated by this right and that in some way it is a big problem or a great weight when it really abuses this right to, now I'm going to say under quotes, a young man is using a car, and the privilege is in the name of a person who may never have sat down in that car. I could not tolerate such things and ask that strict criteria of control of this right be incorporated into the law. Also, I cannot hold more and more of these, and poor practices vote that this conclusion is implemented immediately because this means continuing to carry out bad practice. Because I appreciate what my colleague Pusic said, that we should be healthy, modern and just society. But more than that, I appreciate that we must be responsible and a mature society in which assistance should be given to those who are needed or need help and by reason of the cause, not by means of disability. And for that I'm willing to do it in front of the HSU Club one concession, and the concession is next. Nothing epochal will happen or any major damage will happen in these 6 months, and this is in line with the conclusion of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health which we have unanimously adopted, so we are prepared to sacrifice another 6 months to commit to the Government to amend and supplement certain laws within 6 months, which will include additional criteria governing this area and to apply this right no longer by a decision, no longer by a regulation, but by law apply from 1 January 2006. It kind of fits into this national strategy. In practice, this decision, namely this proposal, of the Committee's conclusion, I think we've reconciled this situation that we didn't put things under the rug, but that we commit to the government one conclusion of the Parliament to do certain actions within the next six months. And I think it is acceptable for the Croatian party of pensioners, but it would not be acceptable simply to reject this conclusion and do nothing, or to make concrete commitments with concrete deadlines. Here, therefore, let more be set up, let the additional criteria be set, let the car class criteria be set, let the most necessary equipment according to the disability category in these disabled people be set up, I have nothing against it. But once a job is done that will be a little more applied, not that we do, to settle such important issues with decisions that can later be interpreted here in ours, or for this speaker as a tendency to get pre-election points. I don't want to think that's it, but I think it's about concern and I want to be in that belief, about caring for those who need our help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39411	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ljubica Lalic, club representative of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39412	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the proposal for a conclusion proposed by our colleague Vesna Pusic. We will support this conclusion proposal for the reason why we do not look at the subject on which it can be politicised and which is placed on the agenda exclusively for political purposes. And we regret that today it is said that this is politics and that it is exclusively in the function of political purposes, which ultimately forces us to reconsider. Whether we were involved in politics, and then when we were in this House, we passed the Laws on Equality, for example, in the children's allowance and children of those parents who don't work, who are unemployed and the children of peasants with those who were employed. For us it was a social issue and a social fair question, and then we didn't think about it being politics, and then when we made decisions in the area of childcare, maternity benefits because we introduced the right to maternity benefits and unemployed women and we didn't politicize. We didn't politicize, we thought it was social justice. And in this case, we believe that these conclusions are absolutely socially just because they eliminate what is a fact, and the fact is that there is discrimination among people with disabilities. That there's discrimination about where disability has arisen. If we go from the constitutional principles of the Republic of Croatia which says to ourselves in the Constitution that it is a socially just state, if we go from the principle that the state is obliged to take special care of people with disabilities and it is not said that there are different types of people with disabilities based on disability, then these conclusions are our constitutional obligation. From this aspect, we are surprised by the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reject these conclusions especially if we have in mind what counterpart Hrelja said was indeed a time for the realisation of the good intentions of the government itself, which the Deputy Prime Minister himself said had in mind, so it was not unknown, they knew and said that it would correct certain injustices, and unfortunately instead of correcting the injustices and what was done, we get the Government's proposal that these conclusions be rejected. And now let's imagine and analyze what the reasons for this refusal are, says this issue needs to be settled permanently, that this issue should be settled permanently but that is no reason to reject the initiative now. This is a temporary solution I allow and with certain corrections but with these conclusions we reject the initiative and we prolong, we delay the resolution of this problem and I voted on the Committee on Labour and Social Policy for possible conclusions, however, I am not optimistic that these conclusions will be respected because the Croatian Parliament has reached... conclusions which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has bound, however, in accordance with some modern habits for the Government, the conclusions do not mean anything. For us, there is no reasonable reason to reject these conclusions of the claim that the budget has not provided the funds, we have seen that there are funds in the budget and how much we are informed from the means of public communication is the rebalance of the budget. So if this rebalancing budget will change some other items, we may see how these funds from the state budget have been spent, and we could see yesterday in the current hour how these funds are spent, so what is the problem then is to ensure that the maximum, maximum, maximum, 16 million kunas are seen, which I also claim will not be needed because we in Croatia are not in favour of continuing abuse. The abuse, however, must not result in the abolition of the right. One legal state must ensure the realisation of rights without abuse, meaning its impotence, what the state is unable to control in a way that the right is abolished. It's just not possible, and it's not allowed. It is also said that there is no money, dear fellow MPs, and MPs have money. We can't say that we're swimming in abundance, we can't say that there's enough money, but that poor cake that our economy and our citizens are able to allocate to the state budget needs to be distributed fairly. Is it justly distributed in a way that a certain category of our citizens, who have problems and which this society does not understand, and that it does not understand them and that it does not give them enough support, we have had the opportunity to see in the implementation of the state budget and now we want to deny them what they need for schooling, to do jobs if they are lucky to get employment? When I analyze that, then I confirm and think about what Radic said a long time ago, "Freedom without social justice means nothing to the people." I think there are elements here that just think about social justice and whether freedom means something to us without that social justice. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support this Opinion, although we are aware of the decision it will be, for the sake of a peaceful conscience, of course we will support something like this. We cannot even be satisfied with this promise that by the end of the term of office this injustice will be carried out, we are witnessing that some laws were passed in 98 with the date of entry into force in 4 months 2000. Well, by following these experiences, we are inclined to believe that something similar can happen to this and this is such a serious problem and not such a expensive problem and a problem that puts this Parliament and this society to the test, we want to carry out our responsibility in a way that is certainly responsible and we support the proposal for conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39413	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What is meant to be achieved by these proposed conclusions? Two things, first of all, are principled nature, equalize people with disabilities in their rights regardless of the origin of disability, and another practical nature is to help these people with disabilities. First, about the principled nature of the problem. Our Constitution in Article 14 states that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right and freedom regardless of his race, skin color, etc. So that Article 14 of our Constitution prohibits any discrimination. Here in the disabled, with different access to people with disabilities, given the origin of their disability on the part, we actually have one discrimination. Discrimination that is completely counter-constitutional and this impossible anti-constitutional situation needs to be resolved. Of course, to accept this conclusion is not only bound by the Constitution, we are bound by the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Declaration that we have adopted here together and from which the Declarations of this conclusion arise. Another practical thing is to help people with disabilities, and there is once again two options, whether they help or not, and there are different views. In 2003, Racan's government made such a conclusion because he thinks it is necessary to help disabled people, it has reached and implemented the conclusion. This government, as we can see from the opinions it delivered here in the House, feels that the disabled obviously do not need to be helped, and therefore this conclusion refuses. My colleagues and colleagues, it's cynical, this government opinion. She smiled at all the disabled in her face like this, didn't smile at her, took a bath with one ugly face. Because what the government says, the government says it does not accept the conclusions because there is no VAT refund in the VAT law. Well, the people of God, and because there is no VAT law, that's why conclusions are necessary, because the VAT law says that VAT is not charged for the purchase of a car for disabled people, the conclusion would not be necessary. Another cynicism, says the government has not budgeted the funds, there is no money. First whoever predicted the funds in the budget, so that same government, and now it has not predicted the funds and now the defence funds are not foreseen. So it's as if some higher power was putting together items of the budget, not the same government, which is for an excuse that she didn't predict the money says the money wasn't foreseen. Let's not say we're being followed by budget rebalances, so that's what she didn't predict means she could make a rebalance, she'll also be at this rebalancing session. If the government wants it, and if it won't, it's not worth the rebalancing, or the budget, or the items in the budget, it's worth nothing because the government simply won't, it won't allow people with disabilities to get cheaper vehicles, it won't. Additional cynicism, says the government has no money and money. 143 million kuna at the position of the Ministry of Health and another 16 million kuna unused at the position of the Ministry of Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, 26. So that's over 160 million kuna and it took 14 million kuna in 2003. We have over 160, we need 14 and we claim we don't have the money. Well, I think the disabled have earned you at least a little more polite rejection. Well, the government could not give an opinion, it could simply not give an opinion but tell the disabled we won't let you do it now because we don't have the money and we won't let you do it because in the budget it's not meant to be and we lied to that budget so we didn't predict it, we won't let you do it now because there's no VAT law. Well, that's exactly why it's being brought because the VAT law doesn't make it cynicism. There is also a cynicism of HDZ here in the Parliament. The HDZ representative says HDZ cannot accept this because it says it should be dealt with systematically. It should be dealt with by law. So who told you not to pass the laws? Well, you had a year and a half to pass the law to solve the system. And in addition, which bothers this conclusion that you continue to work on the law, you, MPs, the government, the entire HDZ so that the conclusion will apply until you settle the law. Who's stopping you from doing the law? And look, the HDZ Club can accept this despite the government's opposition, yes. That would show sensitivity to the disabled. It is shown in this example as far as this event of political animosities can go here in the Croatian Parliament. This is a proposal from Vice-President Dom Vesna Pusic and I cannot be surprised that the parliamentary majority now rejects such a reasonable proposal, one that already existed in 2003 because it comes from the ranks of the parliamentary minority. Despite his support here, we heard the entire opposition. Despite its support and part of Croatia's parliamentary majority, the HDZ pensioners' party says it will not. And that political animosity he's going as far as. No boundaries. To whose harm? So now that you refuse this, who are you going to harm, Vesni Pusic, the opposition parties? So you're gonna hurt the disabled. Only they will suffer your political will, your haughtiness, your unwillingness to accept the opposition proposal, and then when it is evident that it stems from the Constitution, that it stems from the declaration we adopted here together, that it already existed and that the only possible solution now is until some systematic law is passed. I invite you, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, to break the chains of your party disciplines because it leads you into incompetence, on this example it leads you into incompetence and towards the most vulnerable who, if you refuse to lift this right to move. Therefore, I call on you to act on your conscience and not on the party's path because whoever rejects this proposal will show only that he has no conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39415	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39416	Thank you, Mr. President. There were indeed a lot of incorrect allegations from fellow Stazic. It is incorrect that there is discrimination between colleagues Stazic, it is incorrect that the anti-constitutional regulations that regulate this matter now are because for such a difficult saying you really need to give quality evidence and not so casually evaluate it. Then it's incorrect that the government doesn't care about the disabled. Read the government's answer and you'll see how it goes. It's incorrect that this is cynical. The ultimate cynicism is what you're proposing today and you've had four years to solve all these issues. It's top cynicism today. And secondly, to me, I'm really starting to regret that you hate HDZ so much that you can say all sorts of insolences, etc., some statements about HDZ that really don't even stand for you, but here I am really starting to regret that you hate the Croatian Democratic Community so much. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39417	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39418	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I join all those who welcomed Mrs Vesna Pusic's initiative on the proposal for a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to make a decision on the compensation of part of the funds for the import of a private car at the height of the VAT paid for this year. This decision would equalise the rights of all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, while we currently have about 25,000 people with disabilities who would allow for a significant improvement in the quality of life. In the absence of a significant number of citizens, I believe that making this decision would not significantly burden the state budget and, as we have heard in the opening statement and there are items in the budget from which this relatively small amount for the total mass of the budget could be settled without major problems. This is not about a car as a luxury, but about a means that will make it significantly easier for people with disabilities to move. Although there is also a danger of abuse of such a decision and such cases were not an excuse for it not to be made. For possible abuses, police and customs services are competent to do their job and reveal who violates the law, and responsibility lies on us. If we have information that someone abuses this privilege that is primarily intended for disabled persons, we should inform the competent institutions. Those of us who are fortunate to have no such problems should do everything in our power to facilitate and at least partially facilitate the movement and better access of institutions and other contents of everyday life. We need to change the view that it's just them and their families. It's our duty and our responsibility. We are aware that public transport is not tailored to disabled persons and that not only do these persons have problems with access to different institutions themselves but they cannot reach the same institutions and that this is also a problem and access to possible jobs. It is our obligation to enable them to fit functionally into both the workplace and the environment. Some of us get angry when looking around the city for free parking and orbiting several circles around their building constantly encounter empty spaces for people with disabilities. We took good care of places to park, but did we make it easy for them to buy those cars? With so much unemployment that it is only for people with disabilities to get employment, or to access car purchase funds. And I'm stressing them the car certainly does not represent any luxury. Just as this government has provided funds for the reconstruction of the fleet of certain ministries in power, I hope that the same will not be a problem in providing compensation for funds or part of the funds for the import of a personal car for people with disabilities. However, today’s debate seems to be a problem. The degree of humanity of society is also measured by the level of concern of its members who need social assistance and protection for equal inclusion in the working and living environment. Making this decision is only a small relief for people with disabilities when buying cars which should prevent them from closing within their families, moving or simply living, having control over their own lives and moving. Just before, we got the conclusion of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health which does not accept this proposed conclusion, but at the same time commits the Government to establish the basis for solving this problem for next year. However, given the fact that there are no relevant legal assumptions in this year, the adoption of this decision would nevertheless allow for shifts in this year and problem-solving at least one part of people with disabilities to make appropriate legal solutions. I agree and support this proposal, and I hope that other fellow MPs, here from the opposition ranks, will hear it, but I hope that the parliamentary majority will also hear about the needs and needs of this part of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39419	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39420	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly get involved in this debate on the government's commitment to free one part of our citizens from paying a part of the value added tax on importing cars. Well, at first, let me just say that I support this proposal. We have already heard here that there are many of our citizens with disabilities who, if this law is therefore adopted, will have certain benefits. According to the data available in the Republic of Croatia, there is seven thousand two hundred one, one person who has a permanent limited mobility capacity i.e. moving with wheelchairs. There are twelve thousand four hundred eighty eighty-eight permanent fixed persons and about five thousand blind and weak-sighted persons. That is, therefore, a significant number in which all of us must pay attention together, i.e. We must therefore have more care and attention than we have done so far, and therefore the National Strategy has been adopted and therefore the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities here in the Assembly. So one of the most important messages in the National Strategy, so people with disabilities point out exactly the single policy for people with disabilities. It is in this sense that this conclusion goes, therefore, that one unique person is led for, persons with disabilities regardless of the cause of their disability. The Croatian Parliament also adopted a Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities just a few months ago, stating the need to introduce anti-discrimination measures to strengthen the equal position of persons with disabilities, promote and ensure the rights of persons with disabilities and the need for greater equality in the rights of military and civilian persons. There is, in fact, the essence of this whole thing as a disabled person regardless of the time and creation and the cause of disability. This tells us both specifically and, for example, the point of the 20th of our Declaration in which it speaks, which tells us that the Republic of Croatia will equate the evaluation of disability in a way that will prevent any discrimination and encourage the development of a system of protection for the occurrence of disability due to injuries at work, professional illness or other professional risks. So in that direction, there goes the proposal for this conclusion. The introduction of a part of the funds in the import of a passenger car at the level of value added tax would represent one concrete step in this direction since the passing of legal acts represents one stage on the way of working and social integration of disabled persons. This is actually, we could say the first step or just the first step towards resuscitation and the National Strategy and this Declaration that we said I adopted only a few months ago or so ago. In the fourth month of this year. So this is just one step and we'd have to take other steps, too. We'd have to pass some other laws to bring it back to life. Here I have also received an initiative from the Association of Persons with Disabilities, and soon I will put in the parliamentary initiative on their proposal, the proposal for a law on compensation for severe disability. So in this system of allowances, we also have this phenomenon of inequality, and the adoption of this Law on Hard Disability Supplement, which will be proposed in the fall of the Parliament, among other things, would eliminate the present unjustified and illogical situation that is present in the regulation of the Institute of Aid and Care Compensation. Regulation through different laws so far which have not had a degree of disability for their origin but which has led to a situation where, for the same hundred percent disability, a person is entitled to compensation in the amount of one, therefore, of 280 kuna, and to others, a greater fee of 4 thousand kuna. I think it is therefore inadmissible and that in this system we must take this significant step so that these people are equal in their rights because the disabled, 100% disabled, regardless of the cause, has the same needs for care, therefore, as far as health costs are concerned, regardless of the cause. So one can't get 280 kuna, and the other can get 4,000 kuna, and for example, the cost of care paid by the people who care for these people is also a few thousand kunas a month. So there is discrimination that we must avoid as soon as possible. I hope, therefore, that this conclusion and this law that will come to the parliamentary procedure in the fall will be adopted in order to adopt the right to the equality of life of all. They also supported the policy of equal opportunities. All in spirit and the National Strategy and Declaration brought by this very Parliament. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39421	Thank you very much. We still have on behalf of the SDP Club a five-minute debate on the respected representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39422	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This book I hold in my hand is legislation aimed at discrimination against people with disabilities. So it's a Council of Europe document. I note again that we are in a hurry to join the European Union, and I think that we should also go in creating our legislation with this lead. And also in short, in just a few lines, I want to say that the funds exist, so once again, there are funds, and the rebalancing is being calculated before us. So it's up to us now that we're going to reroute those funds to support this conclusion. We're not talking about the privilege here, so we're talking about the rights and empowerment of this population. I note once again that so far persons with disabilities have been approached exclusively as a medical model, but persons with disabilities should be integrated into society and treated through a social model, or as a human rights issue, or where human rights are violated by persons with disabilities. I would also like to point out once again that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2003 Committee has reached conclusions requiring the Government of the Republic of Croatia to develop clear criteria for the release of VAT on imports of cars from 1.1.2004. Unfortunately, the government has done nothing about it. The SDP club supports these conclusions and is not driven by political motives. Once again, it is not driven by political motives, but by the fact that we think we should support every right and every proposal that will strengthen people with disabilities, because I don't think people with disabilities are the category to which political points can be reached. I just think it can increase the image of the Republic of Croatia in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39423	Thank you very much. Proposer, respected representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39424	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I thank all those who participated in the debate, and of course I especially thank those who supported this conclusion, and I hope that we will be able to convince those who have not supported it for the time being. I have to say, first of all, it might be a good idea to keep an eye on how it's spoken publicly and to say that I was shocked by my colleague Vukic's statement, so that he would be luckiest that the disabled is gone at all. In fact, disability is a form of human existence just like age, childhood, youth, any belonging to an ethnic group, belonging to a particular race group. It's simply a form of human existence. Therefore, there is no one to be happy or unhappy that the disabled exists or does not exist. It is a form of human existence and the first next step we are also familiar with is of course thank God I don't have a female child or thank God that my neighbor is not a Serb, Chinese, Roma, Croat, depending on who's talking, black. Thus, it is not something that such an attitude can have. It is simply a form of human existence, and while we as a society are not aware that it is a form of human existence and that the quality of ensuring equality, social participation for people in all forms of human existence, that this is the primary purpose of the function and the task of the state, so far there is no movement and so far we will be able to do so, I hope that this is what my fellow Wolf has escaped. But this is the kind of thing you listen to in Parliament that's really shocking. He also said the law comes retroactively. As it is known, of course, it is not about the law, so the law does not come into force with retroactive force, it is about conclusion. That's the principle we had in a series of cases before that. Therefore, there is nothing unusual as we have established once again, the tenth time for the 2004 budget on the items of the respective ministries of money. The second we have a rebalancing, therefore, in this situation and this year it can be covered. It was also said on behalf of the HDZ Club that we are using this for political purposes. Many colleagues responded, so let me react in my own way. You're right. I use and use for political purposes, because absolutely, I think there is no one in this House, and no one in Croatia who does not know that I and HNS have always, everywhere and before I enter politics, advocated civil equality. Civil equality is our political position, and we believe that our political attitude is not only enough, but that it needs to be translated into concrete measures and into legislation. Our political stance is to eliminate any discrimination by any standard and this is one measure, one small step. We do not claim it to be a little more than one small step in realising this political attitude of civil equality. If your position is discrimination, if your political position is civil inequality then we really have fundamentally different political views. But I don't think so. I think there's just been a confusion in trying to defend some people that shouldn't be defended. He's got money for it first. The second is in line with the policy formally declared by this government and HDZ in this House. So it's not about any astronomical means, it's about small means. Therefore, there is a chance of realising this and it must be the political position that is the subject of consensus in this country, which is the political position of civil equality. If it is thought of politics and preparation for elections, as far as I know, no choices are ahead of us. If HDZ colleagues are not familiar with something that we don't know, it might be the same. But how much, and in politics as is known today, what is remembered in three days of new topics, new people, new initiatives. From that point of view, I don't think this initiative can be criticised. But that kind of cynicism, that kind of cynicism, is what degrades politics in Croatia. So, everything that makes sense, everything that contributes to some kind of justice, if I didn't suggest I, if he didn't propose my club, then it's some game, then it's some hunt in a blur, then it's some other motive. Guys, you need to do it once and then, of course, you just throw it at politics in general. One should try to distinguish what we really think, what we really want to realize, and why we're convinced that it's right from wrong. And almost, and what the other will tell you, what others will think of you, will gossip on you and that kind of competition inter-party needs one time to put an ad act. There's a place where you can work it. There are topics that can be worked on, but this is not such a subject. About the grandmother who drives Kawasaki and the grandfather who drives the Ferrari, I won't even talk. I think it is below the level of public speech in one Parliament, and if it is to be avoided, there is space in this conclusion. It was also a comment on behalf of the HDZ Club. I don't really understand what was going on with my colleague Wolfie that way. So in this conclusion, there is this possibility and the assumption that these criteria are defined. The second sentence is in the conclusion. The decision will regulate the conditions and procedure for the provision of a part of the amount of the tax paid to persons with disabilities for the import of a private car in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005. So it is assumed that the government will make a decision to regulate the procedure, the criteria, everything we've talked about. There's no obstacle for the government to do that. So we don't get into too long a discussion about the status of wartime military people with disabilities and civilian disabilities. They simply need and have to, and it is normal for them to have the same status, so both of them to be free from paying VAT when buying a car, and then there is no confusion. This idea to punish people with disabilities because there was an abuse of such a decision made by the government, so, the former government in 2003, it's the same thing as saying let's end mandatory primary schooling because there are those who go to school and they don't learn anything. It is probably the other way around, it is probably necessary to edit the system by minimising the possibility of abuse, not punishing those for whom this is clearly necessary and for whom our view of ensuring their inclusion is also necessary and necessary in order to be able to live normally. This is an opportunity for Parliament from an institution that only declares itself to be also an institution that is doing something concrete. Which doesn't offend anyone, doesn't marginalize anyone here, doesn't give anyone any special advantages, does something useful, good and close to reason. That discrimination among people with disabilities exists, that's true. There's legislation, you can see for yourself. It exists in the Government Regulation of 20 January 2005. So there's nothing to talk about because it's just black on white. This is an initiative and an opportunity to reduce such discrimination or to move in the right direction to reduce this discrimination. This is finally, colleagues and colleagues, a typical topic for consensus. Typical theme for a consensus. It gives everyone an opportunity to contribute one small step in line with the fundamental idea of civil equality. There is no other option, it is indisputable not to do so and it is incontrovertible with such one, I agree, a small step for one segment of the population but a step that, in an essential, fundamental sense, improves the quality of the state. And the quality of the state by what was considered a charge here, which is according to its political profile. He represents the state as a country that is and wants to be a state of civil equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39425	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39426	Mr. President, there are a lot of incorrect allegations, especially in the findings and claims by counterpart Pusic, that the HDZ Club encourages and discrimination and that it is clearly not in agreement with civil equality, etc. These are completely incorrect claims that do not stand, particularly do not stand in the context of what the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community Club said. It's a completely, completely incorrect colleague. It's not about any discrimination and any inequality. It is certainly our goal to fight and fight for equal rights, and we will always and everywhere do so, but to accuse such a thing that has not been said is really not correct in this House of Commons. Therefore, if someone is said to be happy that someone is not disabled, it implies that he is happy to be a healthy person. Completely in the right sense. Therefore, you do not have to interpret the statement of the representatives of the HDZ Club in such an incorrect way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39427	Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39428	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pusic said a whole series of inaccuracies, but to get out of Mr. Vukic's context of exposure and say that it would be best if they were gone, as you said, and to interpret how it suits you and to say that it is the greatest cynicism, I think it is cynicism. And by means of Mr. Vukic, then take a look at the entire HDZ that we're not for civil equality, that our attitude is discriminatory, so much evil and so much inaccuracy in one place, it's really precedent. However, we cannot cure your wickedness, but we can forgive it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39429	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, which is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a decision on the compensation of part of the funds for the import of a private car in the amount of value added tax for 2005. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament in the mentioned content is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. Conclusion adopted with 67, for 2 abstentions and 26 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39433	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On the basis of Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is initiating the procedure for the adoption of the Decision of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Mission in Afghanistan. The only peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan was agreed by the Bonaan Agreement, concluded in December 2001 as a key document establishing then a transitional administration over the country with the assistance of the International Community and drawing up a post-Italian future for Afghanistan. The mission has been approved by the United Nations, the Security Council Resolution 13-86, and its main objectives are to assist the then provisional government in developing national, security structures in rebuilding the country, and in developing and training the security forces of Afghanistan. The Security Council resolution of September 2004 approves the operation of ISAF both outside Kabul and surrounding areas. Armed Forces members of 35 countries are participating in the International Forces in Afghanistan today. ISAF international forces represent a coalition of military forces. Participation in peacekeeping missions is the most concrete contribution to strengthening stability and security in the world. The ISAF peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan is very demanding, but particularly important for the Republic of Croatia for several foreign and internal political reasons. In the foreign policy plan, participation in such a demanding mission profiles the Republic of Croatia as a reliable partner who can meet greater security challenges. The participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF mission with NATO members also significantly strengthens the political credibility of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to contributing to international security and stability by participating in the ISAF mission, the Republic of Croatia confirms its commitment to the objectives of the anti-terrorism coalition. The Republic of Croatia is entering the key phase of reforming its defence system, which will ensure that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are interoperable with the forces of the Member States of the North Atlantic Union. Croatian defence capabilities are constantly being upgraded through the Partnership for Peace, especially through participation in international peace missions. Today, the Republic of Croatia is successfully participating with a contingent of 50 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. The first reference of members of the Armed Forces to this mission was in February 2003. Co-operation with NATO members in the peace mission in Afghanistan, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia gain important experience in the area of planning and implementing joint operations of multinational forces. By participating in a multinational peacekeeping operation conducted by NATO members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, they will test not only their interoperability but also their ability to conduct remote and logistic demanding operations as they are expected in the future, and especially when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the North-Atlantic alliance with NATO members in the ISAF mission, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will gain important experience in the area of planning and implementing joint operations of multinational forces. About 8,000 members of the armed forces are currently participating in the ISAF mission, mostly from member states of the European Union and NATO. We believe that our current engagement in peacekeeping missions is not enough, however, to achieve our strategic goals for NATO and the European Union membership and to run for a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. To participate in the peace operations of the Croatian Armed Forces, they are preparing NATO procedures for troops, pedestrian companies, water for special actions, military police, engineering, sanity, ABKO troops, and special technical capabilities of helicopters for evacuation. In order to strengthen interoperability with other Western countries, which is in line with the agreed partnership objectives. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have enough trained soldiers to ensure regular rotation of forces every 6 months in the pedestrian company of the military police and the sanity team. Following the adoption of the Croatian Parliament's Decision, the number of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the ISAF mission would gradually increase according to the following dynamics, in August 2005, 4 members of a multinational mixed medical team to operate at the Kabul airport as part of the Greek-military hospital. In February 2006, a walking company of 83 members will be deployed and logistic support with 10 members will likely be needed to increase the number of staff officers depending on NATO's offer and plans to send 2 to 3 military experts to the Lithuanian rural reconstruction team in Čaccaran. In August 2006, the number of staff officers will be increased to round the quota of members of the Croatian Armed Forces to the proposed number of 150 members. For the sake of Slovenia, NATO member states and the European Union are participating with 270 members of the Armed Forces in international peacekeeping missions. Non-NATO countries also make a major contribution to global security and stability, so Finland today has 768 members in international military missions, Ireland 261, Sweden 471, Switzerland 215, Georgia 183, and Morocco, which has 447 members of its armed forces in Kosovo. The upcoming elections in Afghanistan will boost security forces' demands, NATO will send a request to its members and partners for additional forces, which means that NATO will expect to send the request to the Republic of Croatia as well. At this point, we can engage forces of one hour in NATO-led peacekeeping missions. By engaging the force of one hour in such a demanding mission, it profiles the Republic of Croatia as a reliable partner who can respond to greater security challenges and significantly strengthen the political credibility of the Republic of Croatia with NATO members and confirms its commitment to the objectives of the anti-terrorism coalition. By signing the US-Adriatic Charter in Tirana in 2003, the Republic of Croatia, together with other members of the Action Plan for NATO, Albania and Macedonia, committed to strengthening mutual co-operation to strengthen defence reforms, increase security in the region and finally accelerate the Euro-Atlantic integration. To show their true intention to contribute to the efforts of the North-Atlantic Union in Afghanistan by joint action, three states launched this initiative at a defence ministers' meeting in Skopje in June 2004 to send a joint medical team to NATO-led ISAF operation. The three countries' experts have launched preparatory actions and joint training of medical staff, which has been successfully implemented so far. The Allied Transformation Command has proposed that the team act as part of a Greek-Belgiumn military hospital at Kabul Airport. All three countries have accepted this proposal in principle and a medical team preparation procedure has been launched. The financial resources for the implementation of this decision in 2005 are secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the Ministry of Defence of 45 million kuna, and will be planned in 2006 in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia on the item of the peacekeeping mission. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Defence, the Government proposes to the Parliament to adopt this decision, which would have made a previous decision in paragraph 1 that Afghanistan ISAF would be referred to up to 150 members of the Croatian Armed Forces with the possibility of rotating. In paragraph 2, the Parliament would give authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for each rotation. A Article 3 of this Decision obliges the Ministry of Defence to report to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the rotation carried out after each rotation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia referred to in point 1 of this Decision. This would be a previous decision and, in accordance with the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police and civil protection in peace operations and other activities abroad, in accordance with Article 4. The decision to refer shall be made by the President of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you, gentlemen, for your support in making this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39434	Thank you very much, Minister. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39435	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 46th session held on 29 June discussed the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, ISAF, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. In the opening presentation, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia familiarises the members of the Committee with the reasons and interests of the Republic of Croatia for which 150 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are proposed to go on a peace mission in Afghanistan with the possibility of their rotation. The government official states that participation in peacekeeping missions is one of the ways in which Croatia contributes to peace and security in the world, as one of the partner goals of the Republic of Croatia agreed with NATO as part of the implementation of the NATO accession process. The Committee supported the position expressed by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following the discussion, the Committee assessed that the continued participation and departure of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan strengthened the political credibility of the Republic of Croatia and that participation in this mission was of interest to the Republic of Croatia, so the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan, ISAF in the text as proposed by the Proposer of the Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39436	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The club of HSP representatives, respected representative Pero Kovačević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39437	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The first thing I must say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, which is also said by the minister, which is in the explanation that we do not agree with the claim that the Republic of Croatia is entering the key phase of reforming the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. In order for us to enter the key phase of reforming the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, we had to start reforming or re-establishing the Armed Forces, and so far we have done neither the reform nor the reconstruction of the armed forces, and we say it in 96, but we have done a clean reduction of the members of the Armed Forces according to this, the reconstruction, the reform and the reduction, and they will never be synonyms. And now you should be re-editing the reform of the armed forces, and that was visible to you from the reports the government filed last year. And anyone who doesn't understand what the reshuffle means, which means reform, let them read military encyclopedias, read military strategy and doctrine, and see what it means. Reforming means doing something better, something more effective, not reducing. You can reduce the number of members but then you have to do better weapons, better military equipment and everything else. The second thing that we also think is not accurate enough, and that's according to the government, this mission has been demanding so far. In our opinion, she was not only demanding, she was also risky, and now she's entering a phase of possible death. Why do we say that? Because we see for ourselves that jurisdiction is extended not only at the end of 2003 to the Kabul area but has been extended to the whole of Afghanistan and we know that this area is quite a lot of deaths, incidents, excesses and everything else and now with this additional work and our platoon, our members will not only have an area of action within the meaning of the Kabul of this part but have a wider one, especially in this section when elections are coming and therefore we need to be careful and aware of the situation. So the second situation was in the Kabul area, the second is risky and the second is a whole other issue of death. Why do we say that? Because for us, it is a clear next thing, that our members are willing to participate in such missions because our members have a war experience and this real war experience that has been involved, and this has been shown, and it has been recognised by members of other armed forces that they are best at dealing with such situations. These others participated in various exercises and this is a pure war experience and therefore they are desirable for NATO and everyone likes to have members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. We have seen for ourselves that many situations and the military police mean she solved from the part where she helped the civilian forces or the civilian police and what was happening. And now we're entering the part that's very important to us, so there's a possibility, and we're aware of the fact that members of the armed forces volunteer to go on these missions and normally we won't go against it because that way they're still earning something. We know the situation with salaries, material position and everything else within the Croatian Army. But for us, the rights will be crucial, we need to hear the defence minister's response, or the government in a given situation. It means that this phase of risk becomes a phase of death. It must be like, I'm speaking militaryly now, we need to see what Croatia is planning in that part of Croatia, whether Croatia plans to strengthen its forces together with all of these, means to protect existing forces because when it enters the phase of death automatically means that it can come to a situation or you will send additional forces. If we send how we will do it and how do we know ourselves that we do not have transport aircraft for these purposes, for these purposes than we are using now, we pay transportation planes for transportation both from Croatia to Afghanistan and back. I think it's even costing that one flight over $100,000. Or we'll draw strength. So, variant b. when it comes to the execution of whether we're going to get our strength out, and we know that there have been already such peacekeeping missions, normally peace-making, that the United Nations or the forces they had to get out of because they couldn't act and control the situation. Now, if that variant is how are we going to get those forces out? So we don't have the techniques, we don't have the means to work there. Or they'll give help, for example, before it was German logistics, now they'll be Greek, and we need to count on that if something like that turned up they'd first draw their strength. Therefore, we are interested in the military situation, so that's part of the condition. So we will generally support the proposal for this decision but we want answers to these questions that we think can become very important at some point what and how Croatia is trying to do in these cases when the mission can come to a real death. How shall we, shall we withdraw our members? If we want to pull or send forces, or within the meaning of NATO or these participating countries there is and there would have to be a plan for such opportunities, such situations. Therefore, this is very important to us, but we generally support the participation of our representatives. And in the end, I just have to say that we have to be aware that this participation in these missions doesn't mean that it's going to make it much easier for us to join the NATO alliance because we heard the last statement from the US Secretary of State that it doesn't matter because he's pulling it back with General Gotovina's case and stuff like that again. And yet we need to be aware, we don't have enough money to reshuffle to finally start a reconstruction, reform, and all of this is still being paid out of the state budget that's meant for armed forces. Now it's a order of size where 45 million is but normally when it grows to 150 members and this whole thing is a far larger order of size. So, what happens to us is that we won't have any for these needs either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39438	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39439	Mr. President, it is absolutely incorrect that Mr. Kovacevic said that so far it was only a reduction and not a reconstruction of the reform of the armed forces. Countless things have happened, I'm going to point out, just some of the speeches about how he's done a very serious reconstruction of the armed forces. For example, command was introduced in Croatia by the Land Army, so command of the strongest branch. Isn't that a reshuffle? Then a territorial organization was changed, instead of six choir areas today we have four, the Croatian Guard Assembly was abolished. We know what this huge military unit often did not have much to do with the military. The number of Guard brigades has been reduced, hence the reduction and their structure. What's that? What's that? What's that? And I'm not saying that at the Department of Defense level, instead of eight administrations, there were four administrations. These are therefore all the procedures that speak of the fact that these years have been done very serious with the reconstruction of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39440	Thank you. HDZ club respected representative Kresimk Qosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39441	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! On an external-political plan, the participation of the Republic of Croatia in such a demanding mission as the ISAF mission in Afghanistan allows the Republic of Croatia and, politically, on the international stage, to be profiled as a reliable partner who can meet the growing security challenges by participating its armed forces. In addition to contributing to international security and stability by participating in the ISAF mission, the Republic of Croatia confirms its commitment to the objectives of the anti-terrorism coalition. Today, when we talk about the extension of Croatia's participation in this demanding and difficult mission, we should remember all those aids of thousands of soldiers who have provided peace in the Republic of Croatia since 1992. By participating in a multinational peacekeeping operation, the ISAF led by NATO members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will not only test but they test daily not only their interoperability but also the ability to conduct remote logistics demanding operations as they expect in the future, especially when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the North Atlantic Alliance. Co-operation with NATO members in the ISAF mission, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will gain but point out daily important experiences not only from the area of planning, implementation, joint operations of multinational forces but from that operational day-to-day management, gaining knowledge from those standard operating procedures that are very important for effective and effective participation in daily work. What should be particularly pointed out is that the Croatian military contingent in Kabul has so far created an extremely positive picture of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Armed Forces, the Croatian Ministry of Defence both in international circles and in Afghan hosts, which confirmed the numerous talks we had a month ago in Afghanistan. I have often pointed out, and today I especially point out that Croatian soldiers in this demanding peace operation are the best ambassador today to the Republic of Croatia in the world. It may seem like a formal statement, but only when you see the extent of daily communication at all levels of these people would you say that the intensity of international, daily contact with German generals, with American generals, officers, officers, common households, joint, joint mission, joint work I would say daily. During his work, the Croatian contingent as the only Croatian component in Afghanistan has so far represented the Republic of Croatia in all segments and that is what you would say is not enough. This is no longer enough and therefore the expansion of our mission in particular in the civilian segment is important and for a whole series of reasons, because it is not acceptable or usual for soldiers to participate in all those meetings and in all those discussions where large political and other decisions are made and we expect that in that civilian segment our mission in Afghanistan will soon be expanded and we hope that by forming the relevant Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a number of reasons. Diplomatic, political, and there is no need to ignore what economics I will say more about because annual investment in the reconstruction of Afghanistan's infrastructure is moving in billions of dollars. Only entrepreneurs and smart people in this world know how to find their place. Today, when we make decisions like this tomorrow, we really shouldn't formalize too much for a whole series of reasons I want to talk about here. When we talk about extending the mission to Afghanistan, then we must certainly talk about all those issues that determine the safety of our people in this demanding mission. Today it's 50 people, soon it'll be 150 people. Conversation in the Croatian Parliament on issues of their security is not only an important political task but a task that represents good democratic customs. In these 150 people, among these 150 people are soldiers, officers, but also diplomats. There are cops, but there are both women and girls. And there will be more and more responsibility, but not only responsibility for their safety I would say but also our desire to know what they are doing, how they live and must be an integral part of our daily life, I would say our usual political life, and not only that once or twice a year we may remember all those people who live and work in very difficult and risky circumstances. All of this today seems very good, efficient, well organized, but we must at least deal with possible scenarios that are real when soldiers do their job under increased risk conditions. In Afghanistan, it's not war, but Afghanistan looks like a war zone. What if one of our soldiers comes back in a chest with a Croatian flag one day? We must also talk about this because only then will all of us and the entire Croatian public have to ask ourselves if we have done everything to reduce the risks of their stay in this demanding mission? Did we do everything we could to make sure the tragedy didn't happen? Even when you do everything in living and working conditions in such circumstances, executions are an integral part of the normal life of today's Afghanistan. Yesterday, no small number of American soldiers were killed in the vicinity of Kabul. So we need to give more and more attention to that dimension and to that aspect of their safety. Certainly at the level of the main headquarters, at the level of the Ministry of Defence it seems that their training is as high as possible, that they are well equipped. In the end, it's about experienced people. It's about people who want to do it, who can do it, and that's why we need to talk about some other issues that are beyond their jurisdiction. I'll just mention some of them. Today being in Afghanistan means the following. Depending on which part of Afghanistan you are deployed as a unit. There are parts of Afghanistan where the risk is lower. There are parts where the risk is far greater. The ISAF mission, a NATO mission so far has been limited to Kabul and extended to the northern part of Afghanistan but in phase 3 and phase 4 of the Afghanistan mission is expanding towards Iran, towards the Kunduz area, and in phase 4 to the southern part of Afghanistan towards Kandahar, west and east towards Djalabad, where almost daily fighting with Taliban terrorists. And it is not excluded in that sense that after making our decision, different changes may occur in the mandate of the ISAF mission, which means that our officers, our soldiers, will no longer be in Kabul in a relatively safe environment but can be found in substantially changed security circumstances and therefore I think that we must actively participate when discussions are being held on where Croatian forces will be deployed. It is unacceptable to fragment our forces that 10 soldiers do not know in Feizabad in the north, and today our officers and our diplomats live in that area almost isolated without any communication. In winter, it's an area you almost can't get to. So at meetings in Brussels when it comes to structuring forces, we have to be, I would say very active, and we expect our embassy and our permanent military representative to be very active in this regard and that all these activities will somehow be combined and coordinated. Furthermore, one important problem is related to the ISAF mission, not only in the ISAF mission but also in other ISAF missions for the so-called "ISAF". national caviettes which determine the use of weapons and military equipment. For now, there's practically a complete mess in those missions. Some units have some powers, some have very strict restrictions and sometimes it is known that a certain commander has a certain task but that part of the national contingent is not at all ready to carry out such tasks. The enlargement of our mission will likely require one day participation in the battle groups and should be taken into account. Costs are an important part of the whole job. The costs we had so far were I would say almost negligible given the importance of this operation, given its international, political and security profile. However, it should also be known that the funding model of NATO's peacekeeping operations is changing soon. What's been done so far won't be in the future. Certainly as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I do not want to bother you with this, but I think the Croatian Parliament must know more about these aspects at some point. It is unacceptable that our representatives have unacceptable pay gaps. Those who work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have better salaries, those who work at the Ministry of Defence have worse salaries and these are issues that require our attention. The rotation and period of stay in Afghanistan is extremely important. Recent analyses in post-rheumatic war syndrome show that US troops who came from Iraq with a duration of stay on the ground of 12 months had a percentage of PTSD prevalence of more than 20%. The Germans were very careful and responsible for the problem. They had stayed with their troops in Afghanistan for up to 6 months due to unacceptable statistical problems with the psychological health of their troops decided to reduce the duration of their missions to 4 months. These are certainly issues that deserve and attention when it comes to the Croatian contingent. Furthermore, I said when it comes to these peace operations, then in future reports, I think we need a more comprehensive review of them from various aspects, in terms of the foreign ministry, not only the Ministry of Defence, but also the Ministry of the Interior. Because people from these ministries are also involved in these peace operations. During our stay in Afghanistan, we also took advantage of the opportunity to discuss economic issues because in those parts of the world Croatian companies also worked their entrepreneurship, their ambition to enter this area and participate in the construction of infrastructure should be normal and ordinary. Certainly in the conclusion of the HDZ Club will support such a decision by the Government for a wide range of reasons, but what I think should certainly be highlighted, that it would be very good to have a more complete, comprehensive debate on all of these problems that I have just said, just a part of them, and there should certainly be one broader consideration about these issues and the position of other ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Good parliamentary practice marks the following that almost all parliamentarians from those military contingents who are participating in this peace operation are visiting their soldiers, because in recent times there were even 20 parliamentarians from the German Parliament who visited and visited all these troops and I think we will have to create a practice in the Croatian Parliament to be part of our good practices to discuss responsibly and make important and key decisions. It's hard without understanding what a man can only experience and see in the field. I'd say that's final. With the support of this decision, it should be extended with the requirement that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertake to report regularly at intervals of 6 months on the life and work of our contingent in the peace operation in Afghanistan, including reports and views of the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other institutions of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39442	Thank you very much. IDS agent club. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39443	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, At the moment, there are 8,000 members of the armed forces mostly from the European Union and NATO participating in Afghanistan. When I tell NATO, then, first of all, I mean the United States. Afghanistan, however, remains the world's first economy when production of hashish, opium, heroin, etc. I'll take care of it. It is even more important to me than to draw strength, although responsibility clearly for every Croatian soldier should be assumed upon himself by this Parliament, not only by the president of the state, the minister, but by the Parliament. I cannot understand on the other hand that the United Nations, the European Union, NATO, the United States, etc. They think they can seduce order in Afghanistan, establish transitional structures of government after the collapse of that Mule Omar and Osama bin Laden without being able to prevent drug trafficking. And there's something wrong with that. It's as if the international forces are to be cynical and to benefit from such circumstances. This is absurd, however, Croatia must make clear to its partners and these are members of the ISAF coalition, that their mission makes no sense if Afghanistan is the largest drug production polygon in the future. I understand that the attack on the World Trade Center in New York on September 11th on the Pentagon also on September 11th, the operation from Afghanistan. Because on September 11th, the attack on the World Trade Center, or attack on the Pentagon, was one of the greatest, most monstrous acts of terrorism in human history and reactions and the United States in that case, the United Nations was, by my deep conviction, correct. The regime means who designed that operation, that is, who was beaten and protected by Al'Quid, was supposed to be derailed and that should be said openly. However, these 8,000 ISAF members. So, 8 thousand members of the best soldiers the International Community has, that they are now unable to control with all possible technology of heroin smuggling and opium from Afghanistan as the largest producer of these substances, I simply cannot understand it. Or the muskets are going over it now so I don't know if maybe they're funding some of the government's interests in that Afghanistan. Unlike Iraq, where America did something that it shouldn't have done, the mission in Afghanistan is logical and I keep it justified. In Iraq, however, there is something else that many also do not understand. We all know there's a war over there for oil. America will have oil, and the rest if American companies sell it to them. However, the elections there have shown something else, that probably no one is for America, but when 70% of citizens vote for Shita and Kurds, then all these bombs in Baghdad have character and interethnic war. However, no matter what, the American war in Iraq is unacceptable from a moral aspect. Croatia must clearly repeat on every occasion not the engagement of its troops in Iraq. We must not go to Iraq, we have nothing to look for, nor because of any investment Mr. Cesic, Cosic, had just spoken about billions of investments in Afghanistan space. Afghanistan, however, is something else. We've finally been there for a few years and there. I said Afghanistan was run in the 11th of September. Finally, Croatia was there in 91st, 92st calling for the help of the United Nations and I see no reason why Croatia would not in any way repay itself to the International Community when it requires sending soldiers to a crisis point. We must as a country run a clear policy, help yes, but participate in, say, occupations like those in Iraq absolutely not. That I think should not be the principle of just Croatian politics. This is finally very close to what I say and to those countries that I mentioned earlier, I was a minister, who are not members of NATO, who are also giving soldiers into the pensions of the mission. I mean here in Finland, which gives 768 soldiers to the stabilisation forces around the world. Ireland is present, for example, with 261 soldiers around the world, a Swedish neutral country with 471 soldiers around the world. Even one Switzerland with 215 soldiers participates in the stabilisation forces part of the world, not counting clearly the papal Guard. Sometimes our best ambassadors, to paraphrase Mr. Cosic, were in Croatia seamen or Croatian sailors, today unfortunately our best ambassadors become soldiers. To be cynical, after we destroyed our fleet. Just remember the Croatian line. It is also clear that it is not a problem for Croatia to direct 150 soldiers, it is likely that there are several more volunteers. Croatia is the problem of funding, while Swiss people who defend their neutrality are neither the problem of money nor its volunteers. So, IDS will raise hands for Croatia's mission to Afghanistan, handling the fact that UNPROFOR and the Republic of Croatia helped in the most difficult moments. So selfish we just can't be today. Here at our premises, there were five, six of them, and I think even eight thousand UNPROFOR soldiers. This is where they got hurt. Members of peacekeeping missions also suffered before UNPROFOR arrived. Today we have about 70 to 80 Croatian soldiers in various missions around the world and it is understandable that they are exposed to executions and it is huge, at that moment, responsibility or at the moment when we make such a decision, first of all in the Parliament. Not just, I said, the President of the State, the Prime Minister, or the Minister. I therefore believe that this Article 3 of this Decision, which speaks of the rotation and obligation to inform the Committee on Internal Policy, is not the happiest solution and that this notice should go to the Parliament at any time. So the responsibility for the death of any citizen sent by the state of Croatia outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia must be not only at the Ministry of Defence, the Government but also at the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. So, on the other hand, it must be clear that the Parliament will control, monitor, send Armed Forces outside the Republic of Croatia, or oversee there the mission. And that's the point in my court. This is where the government is now operating from the knowledge of the Parliament's Committee on Internal Policy and we keep it at the IDS Club that it's not enough. The parliament has never disputed sending a Croatian soldier out of the country when it comes to peacekeeping missions. Except when it was wanted as in the Minnesota case to bypass the Parliament. Finally, the Parliament was bypassed by an unfortunate interpretation of the Constitution, more specifically by the provision of Article 7(3), which was the first such precedent in Croatia that should not have happened. Speaking of this package, however, Minnesota, Georgia, then Albania, Pula is mentioned there, etc., IDS will vote against this package because we do not want to bless what we believe is constitutionally questionable and the other we are opposed to using Pula airport, even if it is 10, 15 or 20 days a year where members of NATO or the United States of America and their planes should disturb sub-season peace. The last time we did not make it to the 2/3 majority in this House was when this package of Georgia, Ukraine, Pula, etc. was done. So up to 102 votes and I'm ordering you, don't count on IDS votes in that case unlike Afghanistan. Maybe we should just mention the money. This is where 45 million kunas are mentioned. 45 million kuna is money for maximum, maximum for one year of Croatian water, as 50 Croatian soldiers will say. And 150 soldiers, so one company will cost the state budget incomparably more. We can freely say that a Croatian soldier on a peace mission outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia is a yearly Croatian budget, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the taxpayers' tax is costing 1 million kuna. By calculating clearly everything that goes with that soldier, from logistics, to weapons, his replacements, etc., where the fees are certainly the smallest item. All in all, and given first of all the role, means, the International Forces in the Defence of the Republic of Croatia, in the period 91 to 95, and we are aware that without the same war, it would be far more bloody, crueler, therefore, and therefore the Republic of Croatia cannot escape from its international obligations, and participation in such missions is certainly the international obligation of each member of the United Nations. Okay, we all remember the role, let's say, of the Dutch Battalion in Srebrenica, but without international intervention, I repeat, the war in Croatia would be far more ruthless, and the question is if and how to end the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I said, IDS will vote in favour of this bill, but not the proposal that military exercises take place at Pula Airport, even if they should take place in the second half of the 9th month. It's clear there's no way that this airport could turn into a NATO base or anything. It must, however, be a civilian airport, it must not be a military airport and perhaps some business failures by the airport or airport, which it is dear to, may also be linked to these Croatian and American arrangements. Finally, I want to repeat once again that responsibility for these 150 soldiers who will leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia the next day and meet in Afghanistan is primarily at the Parliament. Not only the President of the Republic, the Croatian Government and the Minister of Defence. That's why we need to enable these people all possible logistics, we need to level their salaries with the salaries of our diplomats abroad, and I absolutely agree with Mr. Cosic, and since he comes from the ranks of the ruling party and talks in front of the HDZ Club, I want to believe that he will go in that direction. And clearly, we need to fight for their safety even though every mission is risky and everyone is aware of what these soldiers are getting into. The more these troops in that second or third phase will be moved towards Pakistan where conflicts and conflicts with the Taliban are under way. Everyone, clearly, of these young people, 150 took responsibility for themselves, but there is one security as far as possible, or as far as possible, must be guaranteed by the Croatian State, and in it above all by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39444	Thank you, correcting the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39445	Here's a little correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Caine said I quote "that the international community cannot stop drug production in Afghanistan". That's not true, the international community can stop drug production in Afghanistan, but the problem is that there is no means to do so. Eight thousand soldiers against 120,000 soldiers who have warlords controlling drug production is indeed a small force. That's one aspect. Another aspect, 70% of the gross-national income in Afghanistan belongs to the production of drugs and the moment you try to do so through camps, international peacekeeping forces flying missiles, etc. Yeah, but with a lot more victims and a lot more risks, and a lot more resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39446	Thank you. And another correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39447	Well, there's more correcting to the incorrect assumption that I'm only going to focus on two of the most important. The issue of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been resolved by the Storm, we know how we solved Srebrenica and everything else, because the Storm has solved the issue and Bihac and all other things, therefore, Mr Cain did not say it correctly. And the second is incorrect, as no members leave tomorrow to Afghanistan nor is rotation but the first part goes to August and the second part only for the year, so you should have read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39448	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh Club of Representatives HNS-PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39449	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, several very famous and principled views of the Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats, about our participation in peace operations, peace missions being twice the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, it is our political, external political affirmation, it is so called. The defence diplomacy in which the Republic of Croatia can very much be affirmed, especially as it is our comparative advantage because our army is more developed than most of the armies of the countries that are just entering this world of peace operations, therefore there are our investments, which we should invest so least accordingly, there is our affirmation the easiest, because our members of our Armed Forces have good training and have a war experience that can also help under these circumstances. And that our comparative advantage should be greatly used. Another thing that is also very positive is the training of our members in action in this new context, new tasks, interoperability as it is often said and practiced in new circumstances, in circumstances outside the country, in the circumstances of joint compositions with other units, etc., therefore these are two things that are very useful, because this second one will speed up our army's transformation towards that ideal, according to which we aim and it is full interoperability and full coordination of their actions, equipment, procedures, etc., with the actions of NATO members. Therefore, these are two things that are very useful to us independently, this should be our basic interest and, of course, in this way, we help and establish peace in or maintaining peace in various parts of the world, and in this way we also have this contribution to the general international interest, therefore the interest of preserving or somewhere even maintaining peace. These are two things that are absolutely large, crucial and in this sense, of course we have always supported the action of our forces beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, within the framework of, of course, peace missions, especially those based on the documents of the United Nations and we are opposed to that of which is outside of these documents, as the global organisation should be affirmed on that segment. This is a mission, which is not the mission of the United Nations in the strictest sense of the word, but it is one coalition of forces that acts on the basis of the United Nations Resolution, thus it can be said that it is a mission that is politically led by the United Nations and that is why we support it and we have supported it before and of course we will support it in the future as long as it is within these frameworks. But the question is, what does this decision really mean? It is often fought here that two members of the armed forces will be assigned to an observation mission and here we give the Government of the Republic of Croatia authority that 100 members of the armed forces point to their own will in missions that we do not know what kind of character they are. The military police that are now operating in the ISAF operation in Afghanistan is a unit that can enter a very high level of risk, it is a force that is armed, and while we are discussing the deployment of observers who are unarmed, medical teams etc., where that was Haiti, Ethiopia or Troy here, we are giving authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to indicate if what we have so far had 50 members of the Armed Forces, 100 to 150 more according to the Government's findings and depending on how long the rotation will be, what will be the structure of these units, etc. This can, of course, include the question, or the government's decision on how dangerous this new mission is or how different a mission with more members is. The situation in Afghanistan is not so good, but for 4 years international forces have been operating there, except for the initial establishment of peace, so war breaks, something much to do with stabilising internal relations, political relations that would then guarantee peace on this always troubled part of the world, has not been achieved much. We know what kind of instability exists in the neighbourhood of Afghanistan, whether or not it will be complicated there, whether this mission will become more difficult than it is, whether the United Nations will bring perhaps a new resolution that will characterize the mission itself as more difficult than it is today. This, of course, we do not know any of these questions, so it is not logical for us to give the government of the Republic of Croatia so broadly and so timely power. We here don't limit time at all, we don't even talk about what the structure of the force is, when we talk about the structure of the force today it's our most sophisticated unit being the leader of the military police. The question whether we never talked about it in the Croatian Parliament, which would be the best unit, what kind of activity would be the best, least dangerous for members of the Armed Forces where they could be affirmed most and what they should strive for. We have a well-trained military police platoon that's been there for two years, but we see here from what the Ministry reports that we have one pedestrian company, we have two engineering waters, we have one sanitary team. We welcome the Sanitary Team, and the fact that it is in collaboration with Albania and Macedonia of engineering waters, but it seems to me that the pedestrian company, or any pedestrian unit, is actually the most widely used human potential and, in fact, often the possibility of entering the most difficult and complicated, most dangerous and risky operations. Whether there is room in this international distribution of peace operations that the Republic of Croatia may claim to have some units that would be humanitarian character and part of, of course, that these military structures of our engineering waters are some kind of step in that sense where the danger of our members would then be less. I assume that often times the danger of members of the Sanitary Units or of some humanitarian units, or of engineering units, is less than members who are directly with a rifle on their shoulders or in their hands in a situation to control peace or introduce peace. That's what we never talked about here, and that's of course very important. Perhaps for some sophisticated units such as sanitary waters or some Polish hospitals, or water purification units, initial investments may be higher but the risk is lower and perhaps the country's affirmation because they have such units that are not as simple and the country's affirmation is getting bigger. We haven't talked about it and of course these 150 members, it means 100 more members than it is today opening up the possibility of it being not knowing what. And I think we should talk about that too. Therefore, this decision is too broad a decision and I don't think it's good for the government to be able to change this peace mission, circumstances are not so stable, it has such long-term and so broad powers. Therefore, the HNS and PGS Representatives' Club will accept this decision on the condition, of course, that the amendments that we are going to propose are accepted because we consider that it is not a good decision as wide as possible and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has authority and in this respect we will propose until the end of this debate. The first to set out in paragraph 1 of the decision on the reference of 150 members of the Armed Forces shall set a time limit in the course of 2005 and 2006. This means that any reference that would go beyond those years should go to the approval of the Croatian Parliament. It is the first amendment that we will propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. The second is also reporting in order to take part in the resolution of these issues that I spoke about earlier, which would be optimal, which is best for the Republic of Croatia, where we can most affirm ourselves, which is least dangerous, deadly for members of the armed forces so that we can discuss this too, we will propose an amendment requiring a report once a year on the participation of ISAF members in Afghanistan. So, on this example, we would not only be informed of the difficulties but actually see what our perspective is and what is the best, most optimistic way of participating our members in these missions, which, along with all their positive sides, have, of course, both the positive and the sometimes very pronounced dangers and, of course, should be taken into account. So these are our views on this decision to take part in the participation of members of the armed forces in Afghanistan. We will, of course, support her under these conditions that we have spoken of, with one more note. The question is whether the Parliament has the right to make such a decision at all. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the appointment of members of the armed forces to operations outside the country is decided by the Croatian Parliament. The question is whether the Parliament is so long-term and, in fact, in large units, a large number of its members, it's about a hundred members that the Government is free to decide if we don't count these fifty members of the military police's water. This is of course the question whether it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which, in this sense, is very strict, in my opinion, even more stringent than in some situations and in some cases should be, but to put aside the constitutional dilemma and difficulty, I think it is logical to decide on such large decisions as to refer this or that structure of the armed forces to a hundred members in such an operation that can become a risky matter, however, at least once every two years the Croatian Parliament should decide and at least once a year the Croatian Parliament should receive a report on how the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in such an operation is taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39450	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. ... with a session and debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan. [[Home is not saved.]] On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39452	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to be very brief and point out only some fundamental remarks, not wasting valuable time on repeating what has been defined and established long ago at the moment when a decision has been made that for both the Croatian state and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is good to engage in international activities on the military plan. I agree with the argument from the argument that this activity of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is useful and contributes to the improvements in two directions. One is in strengthening the defence and security capabilities of members of our Armed Forces, and the other is in promoting the goals of joining the Republic of Croatia with different types of political, defence or social integrations such as NATO, the European Union, the UN and other similar associations. What I want to repeat briefly is that in all these activities of the Armed Forces, in this Afghanistan that we need to take steps or decisions today on some steps in the dimension of the mission itself, or our participation in this mission. In all these missions, I say, and so in Afghanistan, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have done their job well and used the benefits of both of these routes, which are why they are sent outside Croatia. And they have perfected their skills and abilities on the one hand, and on the other hand have contributed significantly to the positioning or repositioning of Croatia in the International Community, especially in those associations relating to defence and security activities. And it's all nice and wonderful now, and the SDP will support this decision. However, the SDP has objections to this Decision even after the minister has just met me that the Ministry and the Government accept the suggestions tabled here by fellow Rados concerning the reporting of the executive authority to the Parliament in relation to the scope of the mission. I think that's how it's defined. I have to admit, at this point, I'm not sure, and there wasn't enough time to clarify what was meant by the mission. But I know what it says here on paper, which is that here in my explanation, it's not clearly defined exactly what I would mean by the scope of the mission. In fact, we will make and support the SDP's decision to participate up to 150 troops in the ISAF mission instead of 50th in the future. However, from the very explanation that one company is expected to call, and other than that it is said that doctors and drivers in common with the countries of the Adriatic Charter will make one team, a medical team, completely unclear and it is entirely uncertain that this additional contingent of soldiers in the ISAF mission will work. What duties they will act on, and in that case, they certainly assess and evaluate other things. From the amount of financial resources needed to do so to the final one today, the risk assessment and then some important decisions. I know very well that it is not possible to define everything in detail in advance for the next time, but unfortunately I also know that these negotiations are long run and being prepared and that at this point in the Ministry of Defence they know very clearly what the needs of the International Forces in Afghanistan are and what is expected of Croatia. Well, since I know very well that the Ministry knows that, I don't see any reason to be here in front of the representatives, before the Croatian Parliament, in front of all of us sitting here whether or not we will support this Decision. Some say they will, some say they won't, we will at the SDP. I don't see any reason to be more specific to us today when we make this decision after which there will be no subsequent decision because we are making a decision on rotation, which we also support. Why don't we put ourselves more clearly here on the paper that is, what are possible activities and even what are possible areas, which is what something here today was about. In the opening statement, the minister said something about it, but we cannot and should not accept such practice. We're here a serious body that seems to me right now won't be a problem for this important decision to be made in the required majority. I'm saying, no matter what some demagogues come forward here. But then why don't we get the material ready properly? Which is why we don't get what's really going on here, not like this, because it's definitely about some new activities, some extended, possibly expanded activities. This Parliament is very well aware of what the military police department is doing. We all know and that's what we've talked about here a hundred times, the military police platoon that's out there we know exactly where they're located, we know exactly, and we knew that before they left what their assignments were. It can be very simple to assess their risk and everything else. However, some new activities, I repeat, against which the SDP has nothing, there is nothing, we will vote for this Decision, but we cannot accept that this, I would say, is untransparently offering us a decision. What's gonna happen? I'm asking you respected colleagues and colleagues what will happen if later our company or part of our troops is deployed to some duty or some location around which there will be no consensus in this House. I'm afraid those questions are the most sensitive ones that make up most of this House right now. I fear they and the biggest opponents are any exits of the Armed Forces from the Republic of Croatia and participation in any activity. Well, if that's the case, then I think that before we make this decision for us, I think we should be a little more detailed about it. As far as the Ministry knows, as far as the talks and negotiations are concerned, at executive levels, at operational levels, I think the information collected should be presented to us, and all this explanation, or most of that reasoning, contains those old, principled, political facts that speak in favour of making a decision that our armed forces participate in these activities. And finally the last remark that I have mentioned here is that it is questionable whether these planned funds will be sufficient to cover the actual costs of missions, and then extended missions. Now I'm going to warn you about something that we at least talked about in the SDP when we talked about the budget, we're probably going to have a rebalance, so there's going to be a chance again. The Ministry of Defence's budget, and this item, too, is underrated. I know that in the end it will be settled so that some things will not be done at all, and then the insufficient resources on some other items will be covered by it. It is not good practice, it is not smart, and if this mission costs more than today the planned 45 million I appeal to inform us about it, and that then all together when the budget is rebalanced, we stand by and we say, gentlemen, we have decided that this is good for Croatia, it should provide enough funding. Here, these are our comments from the SDP Club and I ask you not to take them especially you, Mr. Minister, wrong, as truly well-intentioned remarks because we truly want to help make this activity of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence even better and even more useful for the overall interests of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing that seems to us, other than these steps at international level, is the participation of our Armed Forces in the ISAF mission and some other peacekeeping missions, and even in joint exercises, that everything else that needs to be done in the Armed Forces from the training of all members of the Armed Forces, to the realization of a step-by-step reform that follows, that far lags behind the results, preparing and participating the Armed Forces of the Republic at international level.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39453	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39454	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Antunovic has incorrectly claimed that the parliamentary majority is against such missions. This is incorrect, and it is quite clear in the presentation of representatives of the HDZ Club that the club is providing support and that HDZ is providing support to such missions it proved in the launch of peace missions and participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations more than 10 years ago. However, precisely because of this responsibility because we were the ones who launched the first participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia we insisted and asked for all additional documentation to be made available to the Croatian Parliament to have full insight into the implementation of these missions he regularly reports. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39455	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39456	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club also expressed its positive belief when sending the peace forces of that contingent concerning the Republic of Croatia to Afghanistan, it has shown its commitment to all UN missions aimed at creating stability, security, wherever in the world. The role of the Republic of Croatia in such and these missions has its deep and great significance. In these few years, Afghanistan has shown from the aspect of the role of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia the part often very rarely mentioned in this Parliament, and the public remains deprived of the values that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the international forces operating in Afghanistan manage to carry out there. The Republic of Croatia has just been shown, thanks to the peace or if you want, to a coalition of military forces in Afghanistan, that it has trained parts specialised in the most difficult conditions and the most difficult operations. Of course, we agree with the assessment that both on the external and internal plans for Croatia, this presents a positive challenge, of course we are all grateful that so far there have been no victims, of course we cannot say with certainty that the victims will not be, as for any of us is completely untrustworthy, that we will all sit in these benches next year, for this reason or for that reason. However, the fact that it is a high-risk mission must not diminish our efforts but also a clear interpretation of the role that a particular country such as the environment or as the position of the Republic of Croatia should constantly build and that is the trust that should be had in this vital part of our community such as the Armed Forces but also create trust which can be said with full right that it has been created within the framework of a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan in these past years. Therefore, of course, this proposal for a decision which, in relation to the previous situation, is different in terms of the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia being different in terms of the contents of the mission, of course it is somewhat different in terms of the contents of that mission. But these are all the challenges that other countries and our neighbours have, all of these are challenges that must be met in the context of creating a better, better and more peaceful world. These are all challenges that belong to Croatia as well as other countries. Therefore, we do not have the right to be isolated, and we do not have the right even in the context of political options, or in the context of whether we are in opposition or in a position to look at this matter. The mission to Afghanistan is attended by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, members and members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are trained, aware and fully responsible for the decisions called by the Constitution, the law, the decision of this Parliament and their own choice. Thus, it is a little hypocritical sometimes to cry over the different circumstances in which we are in which we are sometimes speaking more about ourselves than about members or members of the armed forces. Therefore, the HSS Club as it wants to be fully responsible and will support this proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace mission in Afghanistan. Of course, we want to join our concern and that we absolutely want to ask the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia that the circumstances that may arise result in the circumstances in which Afghanistan is located and the circumstances are risky that in the event of the occurrence of the deadly circumstances, those circumstances which we naturally do not expect and that we do not want to, but which may be, too, wish that the prevention of those who would occur would provide for members and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan to be protected in good time by the Republic of Croatia, have at least the same conditions in unwanted cases that may occur and that any prevention against them can be transferred. Therefore, of course we are pleased that every six months, the Parliament will be informed, as the Government has announced, and we keep it positive, but we remain with the assessment that the message to the members of this Parliament and to the members of the armed forces that are located anywhere in the peace missions and this kind of mission that can be called and military character should be encouraging, it should be supported by representatives and representatives of the highest home. There should be a pedestal for what they do, there should be a common motive and common belief that Croatia needs this. Affirmation on the outside but also stability within the internal but also in the region is something very important for the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we join all those who seek to strengthen the preventive guarantee that we can give, to strengthen the budget and budget for the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the next period, to strengthen the content relating to the quality of life, to the quality of stay, and also to the measures of insurance and prevention that members and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia should have in such a risky mission, and to finally start to respect those who honor, the reputation and power of the Republic of Croatia are transferred outside to a country that is not unknown to them, but the reputation of members and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan is unquestionable, and it is visible and it should serve the honor of all those who know it and it is our task to bow down to them and to do all the circumstances that are difficult for them from our point of view to facilitate their work and provide all the preventive measures that we can make them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39457	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39458	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! I would first and foremost like to give recognition to the members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia both to soldiers, officers and officers and to all those who have been in the accompanying staff for having done their duty with dignity so far and quality presentation of the armed forces and to the Republic of Croatia in this international mission. Secondly, I would like to remind you that this mission is an international which is primarily aimed at helping the provisional government in Afghanistan to develop national and security structures in the reconstruction of the country and in developing and training the security forces of Afghanistan and that, in practice, this structure or this goal contains one of the fundamental knowledge that should have been mastered and trained, which is crisis management. And in such a situation, it should be pointed out that this is the first situation approved by the United Nations and that at the same time the forces of the United Nations do not carry out the task neither NATO nor do it but perform coalitions, including 36 countries with a special place and the role of the Republic of Croatia and which it does honorably. Second, it should be recalled that the new Security Council Resolution 1520 allowed the operation of these security forces to be extended and done beyond Kabul in addition to its activities in Kabul. Furthermore, it should also be said that in this way not only their knowledge and experience but actually in the coordinated and connected interaction of forces, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are being tested for the first time. They have little opportunity to test together with the actions of the largest number of NATO members, with the fact that for the first time in the field, NATO forces do not have a special force for Europe, a special force for doing this or what it is actually about the forces of NATO members who work together in common. And this is for the first time actually where the forces of the Republic of Croatia work with the forces of the NATO alliance. The truth of the will as individual members of those countries, and that is what she wanted me to or did not want to recognise as part of the MAP, as part of the Partnership for Peace, is practically one of the forms of action, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to join NATO forces, and that is one of the tests, which is one of the very successful texts that carry out and realize the forces, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. And there's something else in particular that needs to be pointed out. That we have been given the opportunity to send out of these 50s we have sent from the armed forces down and now by extending up to 150 members we can practically send parts of the pedestrian hourly specialized units, then engineering lines related specifically to construction and demining, transport helicopters and medical staff. Or more precisely. We can send that part of the force that we otherwise reported as forces, potential our forces tomorrow when we become an equal member of the NATO Pact that practically enables us to practice. To the truth, it would be better if we had the opportunity to do this on the burden of NATO's funds or any other international organisation or alliance, not on our own resources, but we would certainly have to invest and it would be much bigger without the practical and real situation in which our armed forces are currently located, etc. What is particularly important is that the training, training and training of members of the Croatian Armed Forces at such a level is raised to protect them in a quality way and then, of course, carry out the entrusted objectives and tasks they receive in the united units. And in this regard, I personally join all those who support the continuation of this action and its expansion to 150 members, with a particular support for the 2003 US-Adriatic Charter signed by Albania, Macedonia and Croatia together with the Americans, and particularly for the possibility that part of our medical staff in the joint assembly will also be sent to Afghanistan to practice there, the truth to the will not with all their technical means, because we simply do not have them but with the Polish hospitals that will be in that section. And here I would like to point out one particular fact. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia is still considering it, there are no operational plans yet, and they should start preparing them. What is done in NATO and elsewhere is more to include not only the civilian component as administrative and technical assistance in providing services but also associations that are specialized and which are usually followed before or after or together by an army such as the Croatian Red Cross, for example, related to the action on training and saving of the population in the area affected by the crisis situation, and you know that the most explicit form of the crisis situation is exactly the war situation or the situation in which this is located. The colleagues mentioned in the debate among other things that Afghanistan is now an area where drugs are produced and so on. You know, there's everything in the back area. Not only drugs but also drugs, unfortunately, and arms smuggling and organised crime and prostitution and "traffic inga" and everything else and in such a situation, it is absolutely necessary to give additional support to our members of our armed forces there and not only through discussions in the Assembly that they feel the support of the political parliament but exactly what counterpart Cosic was saying. It would be good for a parliamentary delegation, and perhaps within that parliamentary delegation to include the Croatian Red Cross to visit our forces, it is more so that they are not singled out as independent forces than have been joined by the German forces, and now they should be joined by Greece, Greece. Therefore, in such a situation, it is quite important that they feel a higher degree of connection with their homeland or the Republic of Croatia. There is only one question left for me here in the decision, and this is the question of authorising the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the armed forces in rotation. According to our constitution, the Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces is the President of the Republic. The ministry certainly has its powers and powers. I am not sure whether such a decision should be made by the Government or by the President of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given that the Government should be given the money. Perhaps we should consider that point 2 is changed in a way that empowers the President of the Republic of Croatia to establish on the proposal of the Republic of Croatia the duration, rotation and so on, and so on, all of these forces and thus fully functionally constitutionally-legislatively connect it on the one hand, and, on the other hand, we would also practice both this management and command system as it is present in the NATO system. And the decision is made politically elsewhere, but actually when it comes to this part, it's done by those who normally command the operational army. Thank you very much. I'll support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39459	Thank you very much. And a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39460	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. After the release of praises said about Croatia's participation in this mission, it is also time to say which observation at the expense of the plan, or at the expense of the Croatian Government's intention to significantly increase our contingent in Afghanistan. I will make the same arguments here and the same questions that we raised three years ago when Croatia first sent its soldiers there. For the first time in Afghanistan and sending the Croatian army there is not, the trip to Afghanistan and sending the Croatian army there is not a classic peace mission. And that is why it is truly amazing that this is being discussed as going to the Croatian Army or its members on an observation mission in Sierra Leone, Kashmir or Haiti. The Croatian army is going there this time and especially this time outside Kabul where military operations are being conducted and it is quite certain that it can participate in military operations. Secondly, what is the Croatian strategic interest in participating with our troops in Afghanistan? What's the strategic interest? What do we have in common with Afghanistan besides maybe heroin smuggling routes? Third. The trip to Afghanistan and participation in the ISAF mission do not guarantee Croatia's NATO entry. That's, that's a fact. Fourth. The Croatian Army, with its NATO standards, does not have to prove its ability and adherence to NATO standards in Kabul or Kabul. We don't have to do that in Afghanistan. So in Afghanistan, either in Kabul, or in Kandahar, anywhere else, we don't have to prove the competence of Croatian armed forces or its military standards. And fifth, this is a high-risk mission. Sending only to Kabul was a fourth-degree security mission so highly risky and this is far more than that. Kabul itself can be treated relatively secure and the rest of Afghanistan definitely not. There's no peacetime conditions, they don't go as observers. They go as "peace making" and all that together in a country that is military-politically unstable. And the sixth, 45 million kuna funds are ridiculously small. For this means will be far, far greater. One hundred thousand Euros cost only an aircraft that operates... Our troops, let alone the equipment we'll have to send. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So for all these reasons, for all these reasons, it's really hard to listen to all the praises and big words about sending our army there. I repeat, this is not about going to a peace mission, it's not about some separation troops, it's not about military observers, it's not about the humanitarian unit, it's about the Croatian Army going there potentially and in a combat mission that can end tragically and we need to start thinking seriously about it here. No one argues that our soldiers are capable of it, no one disputes that our soldiers are prepared to do so. But as I asked in 2002, what is the Croatian interest in sending our people there? If we're not going to join NATO with that? If we do not have any touch points in terms of geostrategic security there, and I would like to be explained how the stability of Afghanistan affects the military-political stability of Croatia here? What effect will this domino effect take place on the route from Kabul to Zagreb that we must send 150 people there? So they're in Iran, they're not in Afghanistan. So when we talk about it then we have to bear in mind that it's one thing to talk about it on some round tables, at geopolitical gatherings and all that, and another thing is to send 150 people out there with a vague strategic goal in a high-risk mission. That won't get us into NATO any faster. The countries that are there are ladies and gentlemen already in NATO. And we, be careful, send troops there to make it easier for us to join NATO, so that we may have to send our troops to NATO's missions. So for all these reasons, I cannot support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39461	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39462	Dear Representative Tadic said it is unclear what interests of the Republic of Croatia are through participation in this international mission? That's incorrect. I think it is very clear what interests, obligations and responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia in, participate in this international mission. Dear gentlemen, we should remember that 13 years ago we needed the assistance of the International Community. That we got that help. That people came from Nepal, from Argentina, from all over the world. It is part of international responsibility, international solidarity and it is our obligation. It is our obligation and it is not true that it is unclear, I would say very clearly and it is our obligation and it is not our obligation and it is not our interest to be in NATO alone because of that, not that we are only participating. There are many other interests to be aware of, and they are largely clearly highlighted here today, said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39463	Okay. But let's not correct vague allegations. We don't have that institute. Defence Minister, Berislav Roncevic. Final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39464	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank you for the debate, for the views expressed, so before I look back briefly on certain views, the Government has made an amendment to the proposed decision, which, at the end of the text, puts an end to the point and adds the words "until 31 December 2006" and the second amendment, the third one, is changed and said. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to report every six months to the Croatian Parliament on the status of the mission and the work of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in that peacekeeping mission. The government accepted the debate held by the distinguished representative Rados on behalf of the HNS Club and the PGS and others, as well as other MPs, and I would now briefly. There is not a single international peace mission that is not at a certain risk, because if it were not for that risk, probably the International Community would not even open the status of an international peace mission. The possibility of a struggle exists, but in the form and form of self-defense from a potential threat. I said in the opening statement that members of the Croatian Armed Forces are acting within the coalition forces. NATO's command leading this international peacekeeping mission also has an evacuation plan, namely to protect members of the Armed Forces participating in a peacekeeping mission. Therefore, members of the Croatian Armed Forces are involved in this part. In addition, Croatia has additional opportunities, since during 2004, it refurbished its two transport aircraft AN 32, which, along with several, can reach Kabul with certain technical limitations and serve possibly to evacuate members of our Armed Forces. In the international peacekeeping mission ISAF in Afghanistan and in the international peacekeeping missions of the armed forces, we send people who are fully equipped, the quality of equipment of members of the armed forces currently on the mission is greatly surpassed and the equipment of countries that are far richer than the Republic of Croatia. I had a chance to see for myself. All our members, i.e. units to water level and lower, have and are equipped with quality communication devices. We have installed certain frequency towers in the Kabul area as a possibility of additional communication and we have technically solved this problem. The members of our military police are involved in the establishment of peace, the reduction of crime, so just for information Mr. Cain is not exactly not to combat illicit drug trafficking. The members of our military police are actively involved in ensuring the destruction of seized narcotics. So it's also about that segment whether it's enough, if it can stay for discussion but the fact is that it's also working on it. Several MPs have also asked the question and the financial capacity of financial resources. I said that in this year's exposure plan, in this year's year, only a military police platoon would be sent to Afghanistan. It is four members of the three countries times four members, and this year we have definitely enough insurance, and I said that the creation of the 2006 budget should normally take care that the number of members in this international peace mission can be reached by 150. What's the scope of the mission? The scope of the mission has been established by the Security Council Resolution and the matter is clear. Risk assessment is, she changes daily. There is no constant assessment of the degree of danger. She changes a day. Sometimes it changes a week. It is sometimes how we follow the report of our mission in Afghanistan, sometimes for several weeks and weeks, there is an unaltered degree of danger. Therefore, even members of our armed forces who are there are highly trained, professionally related to work, professionally treated and to their own protection, and thus far we have not had any extraordinary events except for one use of firearms in the event of an inappropriate movement of a motor vehicle towards a member of our military police at the checkpoint. Several views have also been expressed on the possibility of endangering our soldiers. However, gentlemen, I warn you that in the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police, civil protection of civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad. In Article 11, there is a provision that, in the event of an unforeseeable change in the mandate for the implementation of the peace operation and other activities abroad, the need for the application of force or threat to the ex ante decision on the continuation of participation or the need for withdrawal of members of the Armed Forces shall be made either by the Croatian Parliament or by the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia, and in the third paragraph even if members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are exposed abroad to the execution of the President of the Republic may decide on their immediate withdrawal. So we have a legal mechanism for both rapid reaction and in cases like this. Finally, a review of Mr Kovacevic's statement on whether the reform has begun or not. The reform of the defence system is certainly part of these international peacekeeping missions, as our members gain additional experience. How we were able to direct them to this international peace mission, which is technically required simply by systematic military exercise, and once again I appeal, and when we vote tomorrow on the proposed military exercises, there is no training without previous training, without previous military exercises, so please support and for that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39465	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Now I'd like to vote, yes, someone doesn't have a key. Okay. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. The debate on the text of the Decision is over. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within the deadline and by the HNS-PGS Representatives' Club. I ask the defence minister, Berislav Roncevic, to declare the amendments to the HNS-PGS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39467	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment of the HNS and PGS Club corresponds in substance to the amendment tabled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In part 2, in the second amendment, the Proposer, on behalf of the Club, proposes to report to the Parliament once a year, and according to his amendment, provides for a commitment every 6 months to report to the Council on the mission status and status of the mission, and I believe that the future amendment of the Government creates both greater commitments and greater dynamics, or more frequent reporting dynamics of the Parliament, the Government then does not accept this amendment, and we believe that the amendment has already been consummated in the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39468	HNS club PGS, respected representative Jozo Radoš, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39469	Yes, Mr. Minister has already said, and that was our agreement, the urgency to submit reports to the Parliament once a year further strengthened by the amendment of the government to do so once in half a year, so the government was very spotty, the government's amendment to the benches before the amendment of the Club of Representatives, so it's not... as in the case of the Chemical Law, I withdraw both amendments, because the amendments to the Government are substantially consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39470	Thank you very much. The amendment was consummated, accepted essentially and withdrawn in this way, but it was accepted in essence. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision requires a two-thirds majority vote by all MPs, at least 102 votes. Please engage. Mr. Representative Luka Bebic, president of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39471	Instead of hearing that some MPs didn't bring the key, if that's true, then we could raise our hands if it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39472	Please, who doesn't have a key? Now he's got it. So that's where the DHL mail came in. All right, we've got the keys, we all have the keys, so please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. I find that with 103 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against decisions taken on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan, the text proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs should verify the mandates of the representatives who are here, who come instead of those whose mandates go to rest or who are in other ways, so I would ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report. I'd like more representatives to enter the hall so we can verify that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39474	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First, we have a report on the start of the stay of MP Radiir Cacic's term of office and the start of his deputy, Zlatko Korajevic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 14th session held on 30 June 2005 the written request of Representative Radiir Cacic of 9 June 2005 informing the Commission that he had been appointed to office on 9 June 2005 in accordance with Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, incompatible with the duty to which it was appointed and to put the parliamentary mandate to rest. As Mr. Cacic was elected representative as candidate on the list of the Croatian People's Party in the 3rd Election Unit, the Croatian People's Party is in accordance with Article 12(1). The law ordered Mr. Zlatko Koračević as deputy representative in that election unit to start acting as representative instead of representative Radiir Cacic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Radiir Cacic as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Zlatko Korajevic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a Decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and to initiate the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative. As it is determined that on 9 June 2005, the stay of MP Radiir Cacic's mandate began and that the parliamentary duty was in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 30 June 2005 began acting as Deputy Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39475	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and in accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club. The proposal is to vote manually in this case. So please, who's in favour of this decision of the mandate committee? Thank you. Against? There isn't. I find that the proposed decision has been unanimously made. Here you go, Mr. President, on your way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39476	The next report is on the start of the stay of MP Zvonimir Puljic's term of office and the start of his deputy, Krona Peronja. At the 14th session held on 30 June 2005, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written request for a term of office in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Zvonimir Puljic, an MP at the Croatian Parliament by act of 28 June 2005. As Mr Puljic was elected representative as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the 10th Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The law laid down that Mr. Kruno Peronja as deputy representative in that constituency began to act as a representative instead of a representative of Zvonimir Puljić. The Commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of the representative's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy crown of Peronja. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a Decision on the standstill of MPs and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative, which states that on 30 June 2005, it had begun the rest of the representative's term of office as a representative of the Parliament and that the parliamentary duty was in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 30 June 2005, he began to act as Deputy Representative of the Kruno Peronja [[Intruder: I am for an individual vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39477	The proposal is appropriate. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to ask Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić to vote manually. I am voting on the proposal for this Decision. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? We're asking for a result. 81 votes, the decision taken unanimously. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39478	Report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Ana Lovrin and the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Rada Ivas. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of representative Ana Lovrin from 17 June 2005, which informed the president of the Croatian Parliament of the re-behaving of the parliamentary post. The commission found that the stay of Ms. Ani Lovrin's parliamentary mandate, elected on the Croatian Democratic Union's list in the 9th election unit, began on 25 February 2004 and began acting on the same day as her deputy Rade Ivas. The Commission has established that certain conditions have been met by law and is in accordance with Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament rests the term of office of representative Ana Lovrin ended on the 8th day since the submission of a written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament since 17 June 2005 on the re-behaving of the representative's duties. In accordance with the words, the mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament after the debate was held that the decision to suspend the term of office of representative and the termination of the deputy representative's term of office, which states that on 25 June 2005, the term of office of representative Ana Lovrin was suspended and that Deputy Representative Rada Ivas, 25 June 2005, ceased to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39479	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this Decision. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? The result? I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 91 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would now move on to swearing an attorney. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of Representatives Zlatko Koračević and Kruno Peronja will be sworn in. Representative Ana Lovrin took an oath at the beginning of the parliamentary term so there is no need to give it now. The oath shall be given in a way that the President of the House shall read the text of the oath, and then a representative or representative after being called up and pronounced by the oath. I will read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the Law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39480	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39481	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krono Peronja. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39482	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39483	Thank you. Congratulations to representatives Zlatko Koračević, and Kroni Peronji at the beginning of the conduct of the representative's duties and on the follow-up of Ani Lovrin's representatives. All two MPs and MPs from this moment on are participating in the work of this house. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39484	We further have a report on the cease-resistance of the representative's term of office as a representative of Zvonimir Sabati, and the start of a stand-off for the same representative. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 14th session held on 30 June 2005, the written request of the representatives of Dr. Zvonimir Sabati, of 16 June 2005, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 9 June 2005, the office of the mayor of Varazdin County had been relieved, thus suspending the reasons for the stay of the parliamentary mandate and due to the incompatibility of the conduct of that duty with the parliamentary duty. The commission also considered the re-application of Dr. Sabatija for the term of office shall be sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 14. The law. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Mr. Zvonimir Sabati, elected on the list of Croatian Peasant Departments in the 3rd Election Unit, began on 22 December 2003, and that his deputy Josip Vresk started acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 22 December 2003. How's Mr. Grissom? Zvonimir Sabati pursuant to Article 13. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the continuation of the behaviour of the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the representative's term of office as a representative of Zvonimir Sabati ended 8 days after the application was filed. The Commission also found that Mr Sabati submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office and that Article 14. Laws fulfilled by law lay down the conditions for the commencement of the term of office, Dr. She's ringing Sabati. According to the statement, the mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament after the debate was held that a decision should be taken to suspend the term of office of MPs and the start of the term of office of MPs, which determines that, on 24 June 2005, the term of office of representative Dr. Mr. Zvonimir Sabati and that on 24 July 2005 a pardon started on 24 June 2005 with Dr. She's ringing Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39485	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of this Decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 98 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39486	The next report on the suspension of MP Velimir Kvesic's term of office and the start of the appointment of the representative of the same representative. At the 14th session held on 30 June 2005, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Velimir Kvesic of 23 June 2005 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 20 June 2005 he had ceased to act incompatible, in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The commission also discussed Mr Kvesic's request for his term of office to be sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 14. The law. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term for Mr Velimir Kvesic, elected on the Croatian Party's list of rights in the 6th constituency began on 23 December 2003 and that his deputy, Pejo Trčević, started acting as a representative of the Croatian Parliament on 27 January 2004. How is Mr Velimir Kvesic in accordance with Article 13. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the continuation of the behaviour of the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline of the Committee found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Representative Velimir Kvesic ceased on 8 days after the application was filed. The commission also found that Mr Kvesic submitted a written request to the president of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office and that they were in accordance with Article 14. Laws fulfilled by law lay down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Velimir Kvesic. In accordance with the said mandate-immunity committee, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of representative, and the start of the term of office of representative, which determines that on 1 June 2005, the term of office of representative Velimir Kvesic ceased to rest and that on 1 June 2005, Velimir Kvesic's term of office began to rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39487	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? unanimously with 99 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39488	Finally, the report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Đura Brodarac and the start of the term of office of the same representative. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of representatives of Đura Brodarac from 21 June 2005, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 20 June 2005, the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County had been relieved, so the reasons for his representative's term of office ceased, and due to the incompatibility of the conduct of those duties with the parliamentary duty. The commission also reviewed Mr Brodarac's request to put his term of office on hold to the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 14(1) of the Law. The commission found that Mr Đura Brodarac's term of office, elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community in the 6th election unit, began on 22 December 2003 and that his deputy professor Ivanka Roksandić started acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 22 December 2003. How is Mr. Djuro Brodarac in accordance with Article 13. The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions had been met by law, so the rest of the parliamentary mandate, the representative of Đura Brodarac, ceased on 8 days after the application. The Commission also found that Mr Brodarac submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office and that they were in accordance with Article 14. Laws fulfilled by law lay down the conditions for the start of Đura Brodarac's term of office. In accordance with the said mandate-immunity committee, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of representative and the start of the term of office of representative, establishing that Đura Brodarac’s term of office had ceased on 29 June 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39489	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 97 votes to make the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39490	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, in accordance with Article 204(2), as announced by the Rules of Procedure, I will propose the addition of the agenda of the 15th session to the meeting – Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Zeljko Krapjan and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Ivan Jurkin. I'm asking if any of the MPs have objected to including this point in the agenda? There isn't. I hereby order the ladies and gentlemen of the council that we have completed this item on the agenda. I suggest we take that dot right away and absorb it. Do you want to take over from the president? Thank you very much. - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Željko Krapjan and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Ivan Jurkin The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was received at the session. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr Damir Sesvecan, to file a report. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39491	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39492	Please colleagues at the beginning of the second point I said we'd break that point and complete with this point when the quorum is established. That's what the Parliament has agreed to. Please let us stick to what we agreed. Here you go, fellow Sesvetchan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39493	At the 15th session held on 7 July 2005, the Croatian Parliament's term of office found that by resigning from the parliamentary office of Deputy Representative Željko Krapjan, in accordance with Article 10. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has ceased its parliamentary mandate and the conditions for the other deputy deputies to start acting as a representative. The commission found that Mr. Zeljko Krapljan on 23 December 2003 began acting as deputy MPs in the sixth election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Mr. Ivan Shuker. The Commission found that, with the termination of the parliamentary term of Mr Zeljko Krapjan and the notification of the Croatian Democratic Community, they were in accordance with Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament on a person who, instead of Mr Ivan Shuker, will exercise a parliamentary duty fulfilled by law laid down conditions for the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Ivan Jurkin. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a Decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of the deputy representative and to initiate the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative. On 7 July 2005, the parliamentary term of office of Deputy Representative Željko Krapjanu shall be suspended and the parliamentary duty shall be in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 7 July 2005 began to act as Deputy Representative Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39494	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate on the report. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? No one. Who's restrained? No one. I find that a decision has been reached unanimously with 85 votes in favour. Advocacy. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Jurkin, will be sworn in. The oath is given in a way that the president or chairman of the House reads the text of the oath and then the representative after being called up and says, "I swear." "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work of the State of the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Ivan Jurkin representative of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39495	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39496	Thank you very much. I congratulate the representative on his sworn oath and wish him success in carrying out his honorable and responsible representative's duties. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's escort our colleague Krapjan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39497	I would now like to interrupt this debate on budget rebalancing and move on to the Report of the mandated immunity commission on the termination of the representative's term of office, Mate Štimec, and the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Tomislav Tomic. I ask the President of the Committee, Damir Sesvecan, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39498	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 16th session held on 12 July 2005, the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament found that it was in accordance with Article 10. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has ceased its parliamentary mandate and the conditions for the other deputy deputies to start acting as a representative. The commission found that Mr. Mato Šimac, on 22 December 2003, began acting as a representative, running for office in 4. The election unit, as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list. The commission found that, with the termination of Mr Mate Štimec's parliamentary mandate and the publication of the Croatian Democratic Community, they were in accordance with Article 12. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, on a person who, instead of Mr Mate Štimac, will act as a representative of the law, laid down conditions for the start of the parliamentary term of deputy MP Tomislav Tomic. In accordance with the words, the Manadat immunity commission, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative's post. On 12 July 2005, Parliament's term of office of representative Mati Štimac was suspended and the parliamentary duty is in accordance with Article 9(2). On 12 July 2005, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began to act as Deputy Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39499	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal for an Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 93 for 2 abstentions. The proposed decision was made with the majority. We're moving on to giving an attorney's oath. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Tomic, will be sworn in. The oath is given in a way that the president of the House reads the text of the oath, and then the representative after being called up and saying "I swear". I read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.". Mr. Representative Tomic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39500	I swear!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39501	Thank you. Congratulations to the representative on my sworn oath, I wish for the successful conduct of a responsible representative's duty! ... [[Applause]] - The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Collateral Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39503	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The first is the report on the suspension of MP Marijan Mlinarić's term of office and the start of the term of office of representative Marijan Mlinarić. At the 17th session held on 14 July 2005, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Marijan Mlinarić, doctor of medicine from 14 July 2005, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 11 July 2005, the office of the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia had ceased the reasons for the rest of his representative's term of office, and due to the incompatibility of the conduct of those duties with a representative's duty. The commission also discussed Mr Mlinaric's request to put his term of office on hold to the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 14(1) of the law. The commission found that Mr Marijan Mlinaric, elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in III, was at rest. The constituency began on 23 December 2003 and his deputy Vladimir Pleško began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 23 December 2003. How Mr. Marijan Mlinarić is in line with Article 13. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Representative Marijan Mlinarić ceased on the eighth day of the application. The commission also found that Mr Mlinaric submitted a written request to the president of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office and that, in accordance with Article 14 of the law, the conditions laid down for the start of the term of office of Mr Marijan Mlinarić were met. In accordance with the words, the mandate-immunity committee, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of representative and the start of the term of office of representative, which determines that on 22 July 2005, the term of office of representative Marijan Mlinarić ceased to rest, and that on 22 July 2005 the term of office of representative Marijan Mlinarić began to rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39504	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 88 plus 2, 90 votes. A unanimous decision has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39505	The following is the report on the request for authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Slavko Linic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session held on 14 July 2005 the notice of the Municipal Court in Zagreb from 14 July 2005 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that the private prosecutor "Abas Komerce" d.o.o. Zadar filed charges against MP Slavko Linic over a crime against honor and reputation committed with the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. How Mr Slavko Linić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term of office, a decision approving the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Municipal Court in Zagreb, informed the Croatian Parliament of the need to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Slavko Linic. The mandate-immunity committee shall, after the debate has been held, unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision denying, during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against Agent Slavko Linic on a private case for a criminal offence against honor and the reputation of the slander committed under Article 200(2). The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. Reason: The Commission took the principle of not taking the view that the application for the initiation of criminal proceedings for the offences of slander and insults to MPs is not taking away parliamentary immunity, and that it does not approve the initiation of criminal proceedings against Slavko Linic for the act of slander because the proceedings can be initiated even after the end of Mr Linic's term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. The position of the Committee is that the Institute of Immunity has been established in order to protect the dignity of the duties, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings as well as any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this, could make it impossible for the representatives to act on a regular basis and affect the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39506	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that the decision was made with 91 votes, 89 electronic and two manual and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we now have an interesting little case to say. On Wednesday, lawmakers at the current morning, MPs from the HSP ranks particularly the first, SDP, HNS and others pointed to a very serious problem that emerged. Namely, the Chemical Act has entered into force, it has started to apply since 1 January 2005. Under the law, the Government was to establish a Chemical Office no later than nine months after the date of entry into force of that Law and to adopt implementing rules no later than six months after the date of entry into force of this Act. The government did not do so, so the Government's Regulation amending and supplementing the Chemical Act postponed the time limit for the application of the Chemical Act from 1 January 2005 to 1 July 2005. That means tomorrow. However, the conditions and assumptions for the start of the work of the Chemical Office have not been ensured within that period, and when that law would start to apply tomorrow, this means that imports, transmission and transport of chemicals would be left unsupervised. And so many representatives and many clubs pointed to the problem. For these reasons, the Government today set out a proposal to amend and supplement the Chemical Act with one single amendment to propose a postponement of the application of this law for 31 December of this year. There have been consultations with club presidents and I would like to ask for one understanding, the President of the Republic is also ready for the prolongation of the law, to put this bill on the agenda now, to discuss and to vote. If that's okay with you, I'd like to ask you to confirm that, so let's put it on the agenda first. Who is to be given the emergency procedure on the agenda? Thank you. Against? No one. In agreement with 96 votes, the draft law was included on the agenda. I'd like Secretary of State Vladimir Vrankovic to give a brief explanation. You don't have to. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. All right. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this bill. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find 94 votes for and 2 abstentions to amend and supplement the proposed Chemical Act. Thank you indeed for the maturity and understanding of all MPs and MPs. We corrected one government failure and thus ensured that both transport and transport of toxic chemicals remains under surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39509	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs! Let me explain the proposed amendments to the Law on Middle Education. During the adoption of amendments to the laws and additions, of course, we consider in our discussions optimal solutions, but the best check is actually a check when the law enters into force and when it starts to apply. The latest amendments to the Law on secondary education were almost five years ago, and in that time we could see how the law was implemented and what it would be worth to change and how the law would improve. So we went with a proposal to amend and supplement this law, so let me say in turn what it refers to. We have witnessed particularly recently, especially from our media, that on school trips and excursions we have unfortunately and unwanted events, many times accidents happen and this is not well established but not only by the Law on secondary education but also by some other regulations, so we have, of course, approached this matter and regulated it legally. We therefore propose that, when adopting annual plans and school work programmes, each school is obliged to do so at the beginning of the school year, so by September 30th, to take trips and excursions, the conditions and the way of implementation are prescribed by the minister and to give a framework that will help schools plan trips and excursions better. Furthermore, we have decided to propose, respected MPs and representatives, that we allow all high school students with major motor problems or chronic illnesses who cannot attend school classes to do so in a parenting home or in a health institution. We think it's really good to do this, and that's the kind of solution we have in elementary school. Our intensities that these children, that these students are not the same learned but that they are included in the system of secondary education. We further suggest that until now it has not been the case that the statutes that bring schools, which will have to be amended after the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws, will have to give the former consent to the Statute of the founder of the county or the competent authority of the city of Zagreb. So far, the police school of the Police Academy of the MUP has educated adults for the interest of a police officer, but it has not been legally covered by the Law on High School, so we have anticipated that change. So far, the head of secondary school has been a management and pedagogical leader, however, we believe that this should be defined differently. It would be more specific to say the professional manager because it is not only the pedagogical leadership of the school but also the need for other competences, so we think it would be desirable to define it this way and, by the way, I have to mention that professional associates in our secondary schools are really very busy now because since 2003, the total number of professional associates in 358 public schools in the Republic of Croatia is 386, along with 24 other requests as many as we have, so that number will be 410 so in some schools that are larger than one professional associate, so they are also co-workers of the director and they also care for pedagogical jobs. We suggest that the possibility be opened to appoint a deputy director, which has not been the case so far with the full powers of the school director. It is true that these are extreme situations, but we also have to predict this in case the principal suddenly gets sick especially at the end of the school year when it is necessary to sign the testimonies, when the students, when the students are bound by deadlines that want to continue studying so that we do not have this one gap or that the person who needs to do these jobs is not authorized. We further propose amendments to the school boards for a number of reasons. First, we've had nine members of the school board so far, and now we suggest that this number be reduced to 7. We think that's enough. We wouldn't re-evaluate the structure, so that would be the founder, the truth in a slightly different way. And school teachers and, of course, parents. We suggest here that the term of office is 4 years for the members of the school boards, but that for the representatives of the parents it is not necessarily 4 years but until the time until his child is therefore a student of the school, and the moment he is not a student of the school that the founder can replace him on a proposal from the Council of Parents. So practice has also shown that parents are no longer interested in working on the school board when their child is no longer a student, and most often do not respond to meetings. We further suggest that the responsibility of members of the school board be strengthened, so that if they do not carry out their duties, they can be resolved, and the possibility is also opened to be resolved by the entire school board unless it does those jobs to which the law and the statutes of the school undertake it. I'm going to mention a fresher example of practice why are we specifically invited to do this? It happened that the Educational Inspector found that one of the directors acted against the law and suggested that the school board be rid of him. But the school board refused. Afterwards, the educational inspector addressed the minister of science, education and sports to resolve what the minister had done. The school board shall meet to appoint the acting director and appoint the acting director in that person the minister has relieved. A tender for the full term of director and the same person who has been re-elected shall be opened after a period of time. Such situations are indeed inadmissible. We must sharpen the responsibility of the school boards and, of course, strengthen the founder that this is not happening in the future. In these solutions that we have proposed that is, such situations are disabled. Furthermore, we propose also because of the example in life that future school secretaries have high or higher professional training of legal or administrative professions. We especially need this because schools are very often found in court disputes and so far almost regularly these court disputes are lost because of the lack of such competences by the principal and most often do not have school secretaries. This knows many times because we have to pay more damages and if we had a good legal representation, maybe it wouldn't have happened. We therefore believe that this solution is good with the fact that all of those secretaries who are currently in the work of the secretary are not obliged to have such qualifications but to remain in their jobs. In one article, we must conclude because it has not been lawfully provided for a student who has been rated insufficiently to repeat the class. Instead of the top sportsman category, we suggest he be a categorized athlete. We admit that it is restrictive, but it's better anyway than being a top athlete. One of the articles discusses matters carried out on the basis of public authority and predicts, of course, that they are guided by the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since teachers carry out a very responsible job, that special requirements are for them, that their tasks are indeed great, they introduce children into a large world of writings. They are raised, often role models to students and idols, and, of course, parents send them with full trust to teachers, so they must have special responsibility for everything, so there are certain cases where persons who are convicted of certain acts cannot work in schools or when a certain procedure is conducted against them. So far, in the Law on High School, we have had an ad for employment and now we suggest that it be a competition. So the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship feels that we need to level this with basic education. It is likely that qualifications are now open and other possibilities, that the Employment Service can publish this on websites but we must also bear in mind that all those who seek a job especially for the first time are looking for a job that may not have been able to get the equipment to follow it and that is why it may be a better solution to be a public tender. We also opened up the possibility that all of our teachers who are constantly employed in schools and going to work in the supplemental teaching abroad, that they can after, but for the longest 5 years that they can get back to their jobs. The same applies to lecturers at foreign universities. If we did not open that possibility, then it would be very doubtful if we could cover all the jobs abroad for Croatian citizens who need additional teaching. We must be extremely responsible to them and open up such an opportunity. Furthermore, there is no law, and this time we suggest that all those teachers who passed a professional exam in elementary schools, and after a while they go to work in high school to be recognized and not to have to take it again. The current provisions of the Law also provide for systematic checks to be carried out every 3 years. This is really good and beneficial because many times a person does not want to admit to himself that he suffers from a serious illness, and systematic examinations reveal it. That's expenditure, 600 kuna is for men, and 900 kuna for women. However, we believe that this solution is indeed good, but in addition, we suggest that the practice has shown that such situations unfortunately exist, that if the teacher is assessed as having impaired psychophysical health to a degree that significantly reduces his working ability, he may be referred to an authorised judgment of his work ability. And here we propose another amendment relating to retirement. So, with 65 years of life and 20 years of retirement, that in that school year a teacher or director must retire, not as so far that they can enter into a contract with a school board that would allow them to continue to work. We believe that when the terms of retirement have been obtained that they should retire and open up the possibility for all young people in the employment records of the Employment Office to be employed. In addition to these amendments to the Law, let me say something in the second part about one major news that we are predicting by the amendments to this Law, which is the introduction of a state degree. Instead of graduations and finals so far. So far, the students have passed and will, of course, take another 3 years of graduation or final exam as a form of internal examination where the teachers who taught the students, who evaluated them all the time, where they were also questioned on the exam. So it's an internal exam. Examining committees most often adapt it to the school itself. There are no standards set for the entire Republic of Croatia and therefore we have a rather unequal situation in the Republic of Croatia. When we discussed the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, then here in this House, a finding was made that we must accept. That education in different schools, in different parts of the Republic of Croatia, is dramatically different. It's a fact and our intention is to change that image. So we want to standardize this procedure. Because the situation is significantly different, the higher the quality of work we have in some schools, in others much lower we often hear from the world of work that students are not well prepared for the labour market. Not everywhere, in some parts, and equally from higher schools, it is often heard that students do not come with good enough knowledge to continue their education in the educational verticals. So from some schools come highly well - prepared students, and from others extremely bad. Therefore, it is one reason, of course not the only reason that our study efficiency is quite weak and that the number of highly educated in the Republic of Croatia is quite small. According to indicators from past years of all students who enroll only 30% of them study and finish. Only 30% of them finish studies, and this 70% never finish studies. Of these 30% who finish the average study is 7.7 years and only 7% of them finish the study within the deadline. The state finances public education, but in return it does not require a certain quality. She didn't set some standard, and she didn't make it clear to the schools that that's what she's expecting for what she's funding school. We therefore want to achieve two fundamental objectives. This is primarily raising the quality of education and the second goal is to facilitate students' enrolment in colleges, i.e. these two stressful situations that they have at the moment, and these are proms and university entrance exams to actually turn into one stressful situation to be just a state graduation that high schools will accept instead of admission exams. Of course, we can't prejudge this by this law, it's going to be a high school matter. They have the right to decide whether the state's graduation will be accepted as a substitute for the admission exam. We are convinced, since this project is well prepared that there will be no reason not to accept the state's graduation instead of the exams. For basic two of the following reasons. In view of the appointment of the Council of the project of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport for the introduction of the State Graduation in the Croatian School System, not only are teachers from secondary schools involved but teachers from the university are also involved. The second part is the committees in question, which will carry out test catalogues, government graduates' tasks banks, prepare national exams and include teachers from both high school and secondary school. So now, for the first time, teachers from universities and high schools have found themselves at one point in the common interest. They will jointly prepare national exams and national prom, and if they are already involved, if they clearly articulate what it is they need in colleges to continue education then there will really be no reason not to accept it. During these four years ahead of us, apart from these working meetings that we have had with them, we will still do a lot of work with teaching students, vice presidents, and probably arrange how in the end it all together for individual colleges should look like this would be accepted as a substitute for admission exams. Preparations are also foreseen and they start by conducting national exams at each class level and the first national exams concerning mandatory subjects would take place in the spring as of next year. So in Croatian language and mathematics and foreign language. Students will be in a position to choose mathematics or foreign language, and in the perspective we intend to introduce information as a national exam at second-class level. Now, of course, we're not ready for this, it's too ambitious and it'll take time for schools to get good equipment, to no longer be an electoral subject in basic IT schools, to be staffed by schools and at that point in time, in due course, when these assumptions are created when national exams are conducted in information science and to be a condition for the state's graduation, then we'll be able to say that at the moment that we'd be the first country in Europe to have all students who finish high school in IT education. So that's the second literacy we're talking about now except for the one that was established in 2001 by the census where we're not very good at. In these amendments to the Law, we have therefore provided that the national exams to be carried out in preparation for the state's graduation to oblige all schools to use the results of national exams for the school evaluation process. This school evaluation process will actually raise the quality of work within the school itself, where the school itself will, according to a special regulation, be passed by a minister who will correct what the national exams will show to be deficient. We're not sure that national prom, so we don't have the illusion that it'll solve all the problems, we're sure it'll open up new problems, but it will open them up in a way that every school is highly motivated to solve these problems immediately. If the school finds out that there are not enough professional staff and that it is a handicap then it will be highly motivated to solve this problem whether it will be combined with the local self-government unit to scholarship students of senior years of study to get a job with them as soon as possible or if it will be additional school equipment if they find their equipment weak. So a number of problems will open up but surely with one desire to solve your problem. The moment we introduce this system of external evaluation, it is certain that schools will become comparable, and of course no one in the system will care if the results of a school that is 2 km away from another school are much worse and have equal professional education and are equally equipped. So then it won't be just for the principal or the teacher who sees that the results from his colleague are much worse, there won't be any parents who send children to those schools, but will actually ask everyone in the system to improve it. We have done quite a lot in preparation for this project, I will remind you since last year when we passed the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in November, since then we have adopted a scientific project to introduce state graduates into the Croatian School System, which employs 6 scientific recruits for different areas. Afterwards, we formed the Council of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the introduction of state education into the Croatian school system, so we sent letters to several addresses to send representatives and also to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and when we received feedback at the beginning of March this year, the council was appointed. Immediately thereafter, the Council adopted the necessary documents, i.e. the Rules of Procedure on its work, and subsequently proposed the appointment of members of the expert working groups to prepare national exams, to produce examination catalogues and, of course, the preparation of tasks for the State Graduation Bank. The project council will be a roof authority, held up to now 7 working sessions that have been very serious, and now the commissions in question have started with their work. Afterwards we also requested reviews of this project, the external review from the Republic of Croatia, and when it was all ready we asked for the opinions of the competent ministries and referred to the Government's procedure for amending the Law because we are fully prepared for the introduction of state graduation. I have to tell you that everything that the state's graduation from the conduct of the exams, from technical implementation to practically some sort of check that we had with a trial test... the examination that was conducted at 47 high schools, to 1350 students and it worked impeccably, the truth that it was translated materials but the secrecy was fully guaranteed when they were translated that a private company who was in charge of the delivery was engaged, the delivery was mostly in bank safes, it was clearly said by the persons who could and at what time raised the test materials, took them to school and to the students to open it because it was all packed in foils. This is the same procedure we predict to the national centre for external evaluation and education, so we don't have to look for a private company but actually do it ourselves. So one part of that work will be done by the committees concerned, which will be bound by the regulation that we have brought about the confidentiality of the data for conducting the state's graduation and national exams. At the national external evaluation and education centre where the commissions are working, no access will be made to anyone else from the national centre, even some rooms will not be able to enter the director of the centre, so that the confidentiality of the test materials will be guaranteed. The delivery to schools so since it will be conducted at the same time, will be guaranteed as I have already mentioned, teachers who taught students will not question students, so they will come from other schools, who will be careful under which conditions they are actually implemented, it is precisely specified how remote students should be from each other, which conditions must be, which test centres may be etc. All these materials go back to the national center where they're read by optical readers, so we don't have that subjective assessment anymore, which is actually very important. Materials are kept, students have the right to insight and, after a certain time, to compete, to demand the destruction of these materials. Let me finally say that we have foreseen by the transitional provision that all students of this school year who are ahead of us, in 2005, 6 who are enrolling in the first class of high school programs that in 4 years they will be taking the state's graduation, so school year 4 2008/9. and students of secondary and artistic schools a year later those who enroll in 2006/7. He's going to go to state high school in 2009/10. School years. All students who have entered the final year 2004/5. In the year they'll be taking the prom and the final exam as scheduled so far. In the end, I am convinced that you will make a decision tomorrow on the introduction of the State Graduation into the Croatian School System, that you will help raise the quality of our secondary education, study more effectively, use the experience of other countries better make this work out of them and there is really no reason for fears, we prepare everything extremely well and tomorrow when you make a decision I think you will do a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39510	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39511	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State! At its 16th session of 29 June, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education, with the final proposal for a law. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The debate supported the proposal's intention to remove the difficulties identified in the management of secondary schools by a large number of organisational improvements, and in the context of part of the proposed solutions, there was no consensus on whether the proposed changes and complements could achieve the intended purpose and the different approaches reflected clearly in the outcome of the vote, which was generally very favourable to the proposal. There were seven votes for and only three abstentions. These recommendations mainly referred to the election of directors. There was an opinion that the minister should still confirm the selection of directors. There were conflicting opinions. Then, on the competences of the school boards and their composition, their appointment and several other details that were discussed. For example, Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the issue of insurance for children athletes living in such special treatment. However, one thing was absolutely unison, unanimous and it was a support to the idea of state graduation. There are all the board members to be agreeable and there I say there were no obstacles, with the clear fact that this text is actually just the initiation of one process that will lead in four years or more to the realization of that idea which is clearly accepted by consensus. We also agreed that there were no technical options to call back the board and some technical remarks were such that they could indeed be resolved to some amendments, so that then we concluded and decided that some amendments in which we were more or less all consensual myself would be submitted personally and clearly all the other representatives who participated in the debate would either submit their amendments, which I say do not question the whole of this proposal, because I repeat, after the debate was held, the majority of the votes, seven votes for and three abstentions. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39512	Thank you very much. Do any of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities? Mr. Board President, Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed at its 24th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education, with the final proposal for a law. And the committee considered this law as an interested working body. The debate expressed regret that the proposed law is adopted by emergency procedure because it contains solutions that deserve to be discussed more closely. Moreover, some newspapers such as the State's Graduation ask that through public debate the widest public be informed before the law is passed, since it is a fundamental change in our school system. Proposer’s explanation that the law should be adopted by emergency procedure because the application for enrolment in the 2005/06 summer enrolment period. start on 30 June and that the law should enter into force before that date, under quotes, so that children, parents and the public are made aware of the conduct of the state's graduation is immaterial if it is borne in mind that the parliamentary session at which it should be held at a time when it should already take effect. The following are particularly highlighted from the issues to be clarified. From the point of view of human rights, it is discriminatory to assess the provisions of Article 23 of the final draft law amending Article 85 of the applicable law. In particular, Article 4 of that Article provides that a teacher who is found not to be able to properly perform obligations in educational and educational work due to permanent psycho-physical health impairment if the school does not have adequate other jobs to do so will cancel the work contract. In this article, the concept of psychophysical ability is not defined. It is expressed the opinion that such a provision raises the fundamental human rights of the person affected and that the reason for the applicant to comply with the provisions of the Labour Act does not solve the problem. I especially warn on this article 23 because so far it could be fired, an employee who had reduced psycho-physical ability only if he did not accept another job offered to him and now can get fired anyway. It's one big regression, one big reverse position of people, people in education. In particular, our Committee draws attention to this and, in fact, the Labour Act is bad about it, and this High Education Act was better. In relation to Article 6 governing the adoption of statutes in high school, the opinion has been expressed that they are unnecessarily complicated by the adoption of that act because the proposed provision indicates that the school board will establish the text of the statutes, then that the statute will be delivered to the founder, and that it will be returned from the founders to the school board instead of having the statutes adopted by the school board and confirmed by the founder. So it's only one way and it's coming back. It is believed to propose the text not only complies with the procedure but reduces the role of the school board in the process of adopting a basic school act. The question has been asked why, in the proposed Article 27(2), the right to return teachers selected for work in the supplemental setting for children of Croatian citizens abroad and teachers appointed as lecturers of Croatian language and literature at the foreign university to work on jobs he has previously worked on and on other tasks for which he meets the requirements only limits to five years. The members of the board eventually supported the introduction of the state graduation and the national exam as the most significant newspapers proposed by the law, believing that this should be a positive contribution to the development of school education with us. It noted the need for the project to be introduced in a broad and timely manner to inform the public and educate all interested. At the end of the debate, the Committee unanimously concluded: - It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39514	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39515	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on secondary education, we could even say as a logical sequence of what happened at the last session because we adopted new amendments and additions to the basic school law, and this is what we almost said at the beginning of identical alignment. In 2001, a decentralised model of management and funding of secondary schools was established. During this period in practice, it has been shown that the current Law does not well define a whole series of provisions and that there is a whole series of irregularities. It is therefore necessary to support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law. It is good that the amendments to the Law on primary education and the Law on secondary education are harmonised, and above all those relating to the previous consent of the founders in the procedure of adopting the Statute, which certainly gives great obligations to the founders and also great powers. The status of teachers, professional associates and other school staff, the way employees are employed, the way in which schools are managed, on the conditions to be met by the school board's director, election and authority, is given great rights to the founder to appoint members of the school board, the number of members of the school board from 9 to 7 members is reduced. It is also defined in this Bill proposal and the termination of the contract on the work of high school workers with 65 years of age and at least 20 years of internship. The establishment of a working relationship for a certain time without competition therefore reintroduces this status and the right of teachers who have been elected to work in the supplementary school, for children of Croatian citizens abroad or those who have been appointed as lecturers of Croatian language and literature at a foreign university so that, after a certain deadline, they can return to their place of work at the end of their duties. It's one newspaper, and we think it's good for people who decide to work with our students abroad. The paper is also a release from the obligation to pass professional exams by those teachers who passed professional exams under the Law on primary education and who work in high school. However, the HDZ Representatives' Club proposes that the activities of organising and conducting expert examinations for teachers of general education, professional associates and educators as the public authority of the Croatian Institute of Education, and the activities of organising and conducting professional examinations for teachers of vocational schools, since these are secondary schools and there are also vocational schools as public authorities, are entrusted to the Professional Education Agency which has been established for that purpose. He's just making sure he's taking care of his teacher's professional training. Newspapers in this Law and certainly to be welcomed are the possibility of teaching all those students who, because of their health or difficulty in teaching regularly, are possible to maintain or in a health institution if they stay longer or even at home, in elementary school so far was possible. High school didn't have this fixed, so I think it's absolutely right that these students have the right to this kind of instructional, we'd say a form of teaching. As in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education, this proposal introduces the obligation of the Director to report to the Centre for Social Care on the violation of the right of the child. In the current Law, it was not regulated legally. And it is introduced in the same way as in the Law on basic schooling of workers who are being prosecuted for the crime of taking bribes, violent conduct, abuse of intoxicating drugs, criminality against sexual freedom and sexual miracle, violation of family obligations, abandonment and abuse of a child or a minor or any other criminal offence committed to the harm of a child or a minor. In addition to all the above changes that relate mainly to employees or school management, it is important to point out the right to those students, and here the promoter said that they are good athletes that they can participate in competitions and preparations and that they carry out the course of physical and health culture according to a specific programme brought by the Ministry. So far, it has not been in the Law of High School, and it was said to be top athletes. There are very few top athletes among high school students who carry that category so most often decided on teaching councils or school principals will they release good, very, very high-quality students who are also very high-quality athletes, will they even let them go to national competitions? I think that's a good thing that's been regulated by this law and that this top-notch category has gone down to, I'd say one might seem a lower category, but really for the number of kids involved in the competition and the best. Of course, the most important changes in this proposal are the introduction of national external evaluation tests. The aim of these exams is to obtain information about student performance, providing really and feedback to schools in order to evaluate and improve the quality of work in schools, setting standards and standards in evaluation. National exams are standardised procedures to check students' skills, skills and skills. They are conducted by the National Centre for External Evaluation, and on which we were founded in 2004 last year at one of our sessions and decided and passed the law. The school is also expected to carry out self-analysis, self-valuation, and thus define its development goals. Another important newspaper that we all agreed on already here is the introduction of a state degree. In order to develop economically and in general, taking into account processes that occur on the labour market, the introduction of state education into Croatian education is given a system of external evaluation of the school achievements of students at the end of four years of secondary education. The testimonies obtained after the state graduation serve as an objective indicator of student preparation for continuing education or the willingness of students to successfully adapt to labour market requirements. Introducing a state degree in education is directed at a student. To his accomplishments. Competence as well as the results expected of it at all. Unlike the existing graduations and final exams, which so far had different criteria for teachers and schools of lack of a standard of student learning and achievement, the inability to compare schools, the lack of data on qualifications, the competences of students, the results of the graduation now had no impact on improving the quality of education. All of this led to mistrust in quality when enrolling students in further education when they enrolled in higher education or when entering the labour market. The introduction of a state degree is just about to be achieved the opposite. And at the end of the day, what can I say? Respecting the specificities of jobs in the education system, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education will ensure better functioning of schools, better quality control of lawfulness and work in schools by the founders and the Ministry. Start preparations for the implementation of changes in the education and adaptation system to the European Union education system and everything, because of what the HDZ Representatives Club has said here, will support the adoption of this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education with two amendments that we will propose to the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39516	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HSLS Club, LS and DC, Ms. MP and Vice-President Đurđa Adlešić and then Mr. Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will really just brief my opinion on behalf of HSLS and LS, and my colleague Piploic, on behalf of DC, will see that he is in fact a joint support for the amendments to this Law of our Club. Because we hold that the law needs to be passed and this is the final bill of law. Rather, we could say that the Law is already late than it is going too fast because this Law actually solves a series of shortcomings that have had a negative impact on the effective functioning of the high school system. We know there was no problem with replacing the director in case of outbreak or prevention. Indeed, there were cases or situations where the director was unable to give power of attorney, e.g. in a sudden illness, so he had no one to sign the testimonies or diplomas, and it was known to happen just before the entrance exams. I would agree with the objection to Article 23, which my colleague, Radin, warned of. I am convinced that the Secretary of State will, on behalf of the Proposer, consider this article together with us and see the possibility that it is more precisely defined because there are indeed possible abuses, but it should be clear and say what the assessment is, in fact, how much it will cost taxpayers such medical examinations, who will pay them. And let me also say, as an educational worker, it's okay for educational workers to go through it, but why exactly are we or people who work with them on a list of those that might be among the first to be examined? There may be people who work in other jobs that this rule and this article could apply to. It is also good to address the problem of disbanding the School Board, and to resolve the directors in cases of apparent violations of the regulations. We'll agree that the state's graduation is good, well solved. However, it is necessary to be completely honest and to say that all students do not have the same, and almost no similar conditions in which neither colleagues nor colleagues professors and teachers are taught in view of the place of residence. And that's why it's going to be very interesting to see the first results. I do not want to say that those who work in poor conditions always have worse results, but you should see what can be done to make our students work in approximately similar conditions. What can be done about the standard in school, not just the pedagogical standard that has been somewhat resolved. I want to say that there is a possibility that we can get rid of the equipment of our schools. I think the secretary of state mentioned a development plan for the education sector for the period 2005 to 2010. So, the government document of the Republic of Croatia towards the World Bank. So, you can run, you can run right for high school, and I think it's a $85 million loan. So, if we spend so much on our high school standards, we keep it so that the shifts are really visible. The part relating to the way the minister will take such acts, I believe, is necessary, regardless of what I think educational workers are among the last to be prescribed and excursions. However, it is necessary to prescribe very clearly both sublegal acts and standards on the number of educational workers accompanying a particular group of students. It's very important because when there's a problem, they're too big. It is children, children or students in a very sensitive period of life, and that part really needs to be dealt with very precisely by sublaws. And I think it would be good to warn in these acts that Croatia also has beautiful places that our students can visit. Between Dubrovnik and Spain, it would be good to warn that it would be good for children to meet Croatia, meet Dubrovnik, meet the northern part of Croatia. Instead of very cheap and better not to say anything about the quality of summering, for example, Spain, Turkey or some other country at a time when we can talk about the beauty of our Adriatic. What I would especially like to commend is Article 2 which prescribes teaching for students with severe motor problems and chronic illnesses can be organised in a student’s home or health institution. That was the only option for elementary school. I just want to warn you that it really, really gets rid of it so that this article is fully enforceable or that as much as possible so that it doesn't just stay at the declarative level. Because I have to remind you that there are schools where children with wheelchairs can't get in. They're usually worn by moms or sometimes by classmates and classmates. This section relating to the appointment and resolution of the director is unfortunately absolutely necessary. Sanctions are also needed, however, for this part relating to high school workers who stop a contract with 65 years of age and at least 20 years of insurance training is good because it allows young teachers who are unemployed to come to work. It's hard to imagine someone who is 64 and 65 years old, let no one get angry, who can do quality work with new generations of 18 and 19 who are far and far more written and oral, perhaps than many of us here. And it's hard to keep track of work at that age. However, I believe that there is still a need to make sure that the school year ends. So as not to interrupt classes in any month, only because of someone’s emphasis, for example, on the 1.4 years of internships. We will therefore uphold this law. We believe that it is good to adopt an emergency procedure, but it will indeed be necessary to inform Parliament, so why not the public about what the results of the state's graduation look like. Well, then maybe you can see how much this has to do with the material situation in schools and professional representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39518	Thank you very much. Frano Piploic also owns the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39519	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in a few minutes, I'll say what's on behalf of DC. In fact, we in DC hold that this Law, these amendments and additions to this Law, is actually a necessary path that we need as a society to cross stone by stone to come to that vision of Croatian secondary education as the essential basis in the system of education and the construction of man in our society. The vision that the Government, or minister, has offered what is now offered in this Law, is in fact the realization of a part of that vision that must clearly pass its time. We believe that this is the addition of the entire system of education and its alignment with the real needs that, clearly, will change and change the legal provisions to get to that final goal. So we're holding actually that this is really one step forward. Here she mentioned her colleague, Roksandić, that a month ago we had a debate about primary school. Almost the same problems were related to primary schooling, so what we supported there as elements in building up the system is what we have today in secondary schooling. Let's say what I would particularly point out is the introduction of a national exam as a standardised procedure to check how many students are able to use knowledge and skills from certain subjects. How capable they are of using it in practice. So we have one, something we need. I remember when I was in primary school, high school, there were former famous commissions, and when they came, it was fear and shivering, in the last one period of our school turned into regular biflaves, in the end they were especially biflains when the past system ended when much was pounding by heart and almost little could be applied in practice. I believe that this way of checking, through a national exam that will periodically pass through a 4-year schooling system, that this bifling will be slightly abandoned from high school and that actually students at the end of high school will be much more qualified to apply those skills that they acquired during high school in practice. I would also mention two categories that you well mentioned here are a category of students who have difficulty in their development, that there is a legal possibility for them to be treated specifically with a special article that is good for me, and we have talented sports talent that these students who have the talent for the right sports and also cannot respond equally to the obligations in high school that this sport talent is not choking, as you can see the quality athletes are our ambassadors, very efficient and in today's communication system athletes are an important component, in this promotion of state, society, etc. I'd make two remarks, I made the same remarks when we talked about elementary school. Namely, Article 19 here states that work in high school cannot be carried out by a person who is legally convicted of one of the crimes against the Republic of Croatia, which states the crime of bribery, violent conduct, abuse of intoxicating drugs, sexual freedom, sexual disorder, violation of family obligation, etc. I think that another two words should be inserted here, meaning who is convicted, or suspected and against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, you have today that the person who is possibly unskilled has entered was a pedagogic, raiser, in school, in Sisak, we now have Bezovica as an institution where students are also educated, so to come one person, I think that should be inserted here means who is the suspect and against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted. Because a person like that now, if this law is in force now, such a person can get a job under this law, report to the competition, etc. I think it should be introduced. And one more thing I am thinking aloud that in Article 2 of that same article, paragraph 2, says the teacher and the other worker against whom the criminal offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is being brought away from doing business to being entitled to judicial judgment, clearly he has the right to compensation for the monthly salary of half the salary during that period. What will happen if this person has failed and the case has been discovered, which is the period he spent at work, etc., as we will assess, whether this person, with various legal tricks, will succeed in delaying the process and can receive half that salary for a year. I think it should be specified for the efficiency of the entire system to prevent these individuals. I would install here if they were automatically fired if it were discovered that they had failed and that they had previously committed it and it wasn't recorded at the reception in a working relationship. Let's just say this is a very important component to me, the process of education, education of children is a very responsible process and I can only do responsible, moral, persons. Finally, I will mention article 25. Article 25 states here that the students who wrote high school are final with the school year 2004. 2005 means that at the end of the period, they are taking their graduations according to the old system. Why don't we open up the possibility for students who were one year old, so this year they're done, why don't we open up the possibility if they want to take the state's graduation, why don't we make sure that on their request it's not mandatory but if they want to pass the state's graduation, why don't we let them do it. I don't think it's a big loss, nothing new will happen in the first year when we start on the new system that there won't be any big differences. I would suggest there, however, that children who want to pass state's graduation be allowed to do so. I mean, we're going to make this proposal very clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39520	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, representative Marija LUgarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39521	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The fundamental purpose of these proposed purposes of these proposed amendments and the addition of doubles is, on the one hand, to amend certain provisions of the laws relating to school management, and on the other hand, to make normative assumptions for the introduction of state education in high school. We at the SDP Club strongly support the introduction of the state graduation but cannot agree with the proposed changes concerning changes to the management structure in secondary schools, since the de facto management system is centralized and disrupts the already achieved degree of autonomy of the school. For us in the SDP, the autonomy of a school based on teacher autonomy, the professional competence of teachers is a key moment, and a key fact is that it should be based on improving the quality of school and strengthening the importance of school in the local community. Therefore, we cannot support that part of the changes and additions that represents a step back from the school's already achieved autonomy. In doing so, we primarily think about the changes that apply to the choice of members and members of the school board. So far, in the Law, it has been a solution for teachers on the school board to be elected by all school workers, for parents to choose their own parents and for the founder to appoint his representatives. Now, the Ministry is proposing that everyone, but absolutely all the members of the school board, be appointed by the Founders. So we have one very clear setback from choosing according to the appointment, or from the freedom and autonomy of teachers and parents according to the appointment by politics, and that's not a good solution. We are sorry in the SDP when it was already going to touch the school boards, why did the government not propose changes that would mean quality shifts in the school board. For example, we regret why instead of putting the selection of members of the school board into the hands of politics, it did not define a solution that individual members of the school board would, for example, appoint institutions or companies from the economy, because much of our fellow citizens end up in high school. For example, why no representative of the crafts chamber has been introduced within the school board of crafts schools. Such quality and qualitative solutions would certainly support us but those that are proposed, who are in school and the school committees are returned to politicisation and the political will of local powers cannot be supported. At the same time, by applying this Act, if it is adopted as proposed, everyone will be replaced within 60 days, but absolutely all of them and the complete existing school boards and appoint a new one, which reminds us overwhelmingly of some political cleanups that I thought were long gone, please read the latest article of the transitional provisions. The bill also asks about provisions relating to the powers of educational inspectors who have absolutely nothing to do with the Law on Educational Inspection. Unfortunately, the biggest problem is not that formal discrepancies, because it is a much bigger problem that the proposal of an educational inspector that does not have the authority to do so under special law, and imagine the minister's assessment can disband the school board and can be replaced by the school's principal. So what kind of message are we sending? Obviously another example of completely inappropriate school politicisation and we in the SDP cannot be in favour of such a solution. We cannot be in favour of a proposed solution that reduces the level of working and social security of teachers in secondary schools, this concerns the proposal to amend Article 85. A law that regulates procedures in case of impaired physical health teachers. So far, it was worth the provision that a teacher whose health has been so damaged that he can no longer work in the teaching school must free up direct education work and deploy it to the workplace according to his remaining work ability. That provision provided such social security to the teacher. On the contrary, it is now proposed that the provision be loosened and that if the school does not have the right job, the teacher simply cancels. This is unacceptable, therefore, if we know that continuing work with children is a highly stressful job and that the disorder of teachers’ health is mainly due to the work they do. This is already becoming a serious problem, especially in secondary schools, and given the growing number of cases of child and parent violence against teachers, there are already very serious demands from some professional associations and teachers' associations for the well-fused teaching profession. I do not think that this solution is the smartest but quite certain cancellation of the work contract in the event of a teacher's health disorder is not a solution appropriate to a social state and we cannot support such a solution. And the Republic of Croatia is and I think we all know it here still in accordance with Article 1 of our Constitution of the social state. The second part relating to the introduction of state graduation is me and I want to make it quite clear and unequivocally clear to me at the SDP Club we fully support because it was from our club in the last term and it was our club that proposed it in the last term and the Parliament accepted the conclusion that it had committed the Government to propose the establishment of an institution that would conduct an external evaluation, including with the State's graduation. When we proposed this two or three years ago, we suggested the deep-aware needs of setting up an evaluation system because it was precisely the system of evaluation and the quality of the evaluation in some way measures for the quality of the entire system. We thought then and today that the introduction of a school evaluation system is a good step which can and certainly and will encourage other changes in the system, because just now systematic implementation of the evaluation will give us insight into the right state of affairs, define problems and offer us the way to solve it. And I want to take this opportunity and once again very clearly define the concept and importance of external evaluation in education. External evaluation is a set of defined and very clear measures and procedures aimed at assessing and assessing the effectiveness of the educational process and objectively monitoring the outcome of education. The external evaluation is carried out by an institution that is outside of direct educational work, it is our national external evaluation centre and it is a division of the internal evaluation that teachers and students are primarily doing for themselves and assessing their own performance. We consider it necessary to point out that the most widely popular segment of external evaluation is a state graduate, but only one element in the whole of the system and therefore it is necessary to develop other components of the external evaluation system. Furthermore, the entire project of introducing an external evaluation and introducing a state graduate will not be a mother but absolutely no purpose if it is the purpose and goal itself, because if there is no functional integration of the external evaluation system with other segments of the education system, the desired goal of implementing the external evaluation will not be achieved, we will influence and give an incentive to introduce innovation into the education system, in managing the system and creating an educational policy. Without a yet connected and complex system based on high professionalism and ethics, we will not achieve the desired goal of improving the quality of educational work as well as of directing students to the desired goals of education achieved by work and pawning. And we need to be aware of this in the debate on state graduation because the limit between good performance and hard work is extremely thin, and the consequences of a poorly designed and executed external evaluation system can have devastating influences, especially since it is questionable to the purpose of school because it is very easy for the purpose of schooling to learn answers to several thousand questions from the catalogues examined. Therefore, we need to be very careful in making final decisions and we are warning and we want to take this opportunity once again to warn the ministry that it is high time for serious and professional and not advisory criteria that are based on curricular reform. In this regard, we would like to point out once again that the selected methodology of work for the adoption of a national curricula that starts from the catalogue of knowledge, or from HNOS, is completely missed, and that all the dodoactive and pedagogical profession says that it is necessary to work exactly the opposite because the objectives and outcomes of education and levels of competences achieved are first designed against some of the needs of knowledge from catalogues without clearly and very precisely defined objectives. Knowledge catalogues or new HNOS can only be an effective auxiliary measuring tool of measurable indicators, but they cannot in any way and must not become a valuation criterion. On the side now that our legal system in education does not generally know the catalogues of knowledge and HNOS, it is an obligation for teaching courses of knowledge catalogues and HNOS or HNOS can be a very bad message if we want to promote competences and desirable levels of congestive operations and acquired skills. A few words about the state's graduation itself. The state's graduation is written and spoken in public and because of the closeness and perception of simplicity, everyone feels very competent about the state's graduation talk, but contrary to the popular belief that the state's graduation as some magic wand will solve all our problems the truth is just the opposite. With the expected positive effects, the introduction of state graduates will generate a number of problems and will cause major earthquakes in school. Therefore, it is necessary to prepare well and it seems to us in the SDP that, based on the scientific project that is now being done in the Ministry of Education and Science, it should be implemented gradually respecting the current situation in schools and respecting all the specificities and different areas of Croatia. I think it's clear enough here, but it's not bad enough to mention once again that if and only if the State's graduation project will be based on relevant scientific projects, with respect to the experiences of the countries that introduced the state's graduation and if we look at the introduction of the state's graduation as a process and as a result, the state's graduation will ultimately be a good project for the benefit of students and schools and not just another trauma in the whole system. We would like once again to give a very clear warning and call on the current educational authority to take good care of it. It is especially important to form the standards of the entire system of state graduation because we think it is already clear to all of us that state graduation must be conceived so that throughout the course of education it directs learning from factography to problem solving, from reproduction to creation. And of course, this system of national examinations that is being introduced must be complemented by those views and they must not become just dry tests to verify knowledge. And we warn here of the exceptional importance and quality preparation of test catalogues although we do not understand how in the real system in everyday school life, so to express myself, cohabitate test catalogues as very clearly formed national standards of minimum competences and levels of success and according to the announcement of a special adviser to Minister HNOS for secondary schools whose work for gymnasium should be started in the autumn. We also have a big job to do to adapt participants and users of the education system related to the state's graduation because if only one generation of students is damaged because of the introduction of the state's graduation, there will be too many generations. A few words about deadlines. It became almost a rule that everything about school was brought in at the last minute and by an emergency procedure. It's completely inappropriate for large systems like education. It is today and tomorrow that the applications for high school applications are due, and I think that this way by pressing the Parliament to discuss this important law in an urgent process, it voted on Friday so that the enrolments could be carried out on Monday by the Government in some way and it was blackmailing Parliament in view of what it was not, but absolutely no need, because there was enough time to prepare this Law. It is important that students know at the time of enrollment what school they are enrolled in, in which conditions will have to be trained, and in this sense a very clear message to our education minister that he is a little less involved in propaganda, that he is a little less involved in jumbo posters and TV spots, and a little more concrete solutions. And at the very end of this debate, and based on everything that has been said so far, both here and on committees, and on the basis of the State Secretary's promise of 6 or 7 months ago which has not been realized, we will repeat the conclusions that would oblige the Government to propose, in accordance with the legal provisions of the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of a pedagogical standard because it is not right today, that all of our students and students at the end of school would be valued according to the same indicators, and that we have not previously provided them with the same learning conditions. And in the end, I said that some totally unacceptable provisions and procedures regarding the management of the school and our obvious and our vote on this bill will depend on how the government and the proposings will be manifested on our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39522	Thank you very much, dear colleague. State Secretary on behalf of the Proposer Mr. Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39523	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs allow me to refer briefly to these discussions that were so far. This, I'd like to start with what Honorable Representative Selem said on behalf of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The question of the choice of director or solution as we offer, of course, that we have countries like France, such as Italy where the minister appoints or in some countries where he confirms directors and indeed the minister should be involved in the selection of directors, but the basic prerequisite for that would be that we have a monitoring system which we unfortunately do not have. We plan to develop a monitoring system for directors and this is contained in this document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the development plan for education and education systems from 2005 to 2010. The moment we develop this tracking system, then the minister will be able to actually say why he's confirming or not confirming someone. So it certainly is our future, but at this point, we really can't go to such a solution. Furthermore, thank you the most beautiful representatives of Roksandić who suggested that we keep both the Agency and the Educational Institute in mind when it comes to public authority. I hope that you will submit the amendment and we will be very happy to accept it because of what we are actually going to open up the possibility to the Educational Institute, but also to the Agency to do this job that needs to be done. Furthermore, on behalf of the HSLS and LS Club, Croatian Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic warned of several things. She mentioned similar conditions and school equipment. Caution is good of course and this observation is indeed in place so that we can expect equal results if we want to standardise everything, if we want to raise the quality of education then all conditions should be approximated. We don't have it now, of course, but I dare say we're getting conditions to fix it pretty quickly. So by amending the law in 2001 when we decentralised the system and when we opened the possibility that the founder of the equipment of the school in this case, that the Ministry is doing so now with this same document that I have shown to the respected representative Selem, I would also like to say to the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament that in this document in the government that we have run for the World Bank and that we reflect on a substantial loan, that part of these funds will be focused on this part, and I am convinced that over the next 4 years when our students will first appear at the State Gradu, that these conditions or the equipment of schools will be approximated and that there will be no such big differences. In addition, respected MP Piplovic asked why and last year's generation, so students who enrolled their first year of high school programmes in 2005, why don't they go to the national prom together with these? This is unfortunately simply impossible because, since 2007, national prom will not be implemented until 2008, 2009. And finally, respected representative Lugaric, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, mentioned that it would not be bad if the board of directors were also representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. I would like to make it clear that we have very good relations with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, who through their representatives in the counties is very helpful in many jobs, especially when it comes to planning enrolment and direct contact with all schools. I am here taking the opportunity to really highlight this cooperation as an extremely good example of cooperation between the Ministry and all those addressed to the Ministry. It is also mentioned that ethics is also mentioned when it comes to the state's graduation or the external evaluation of education. This is what we take special care of, and we actually want to remove everything that is now being told and what belongs to this category by introducing state graduation and external evaluation. For these reasons, therefore, in order to start with this and to give a clear message that we will take special care of the moment when the scientific project was accepted then, then the project manager and his associates were able to hire scientific recruits on their own proposal and this would probably be accepted as most common, however, we did not exactly do so for these reasons so that no shadow of doubt would fall that someone was choosing someone close to himself and perhaps has no necessary qualifications. We then opened a tender that registered 435 candidates and out of those 435 we chose 6. I hope we've chosen the best according to what they've done so far, which we feel is that we haven't made a mistake. You further talked about what kind of approach it would be when it came to making test catalogues and all that regarding further steps in the work for national exams and for the national prom. Of course the procedure is actually like this. What we're about to affirm is the primary outcomes of education, so out-of-state competences. In the second place is the method of testing as it occurs, the examination of these output competences. On the third method. And that next step concerns teachers, or their necessary knowledge, of the equipment and ultimately comes, the contents come. So the outcomes define all of this and the contents themselves. And finally something about deadlines I said very clearly, respected MPs yes, that there was really a lot of work to get to. Believe me, we haven't done all these steps that I've listed in the opening statement. If I hadn't said all that to which it went during and what dynamics since November last year, so far, if we hadn't done it all by this time, we wouldn't have gone with that proposal, but we'd have left a year later. Since we did, and all the procedure ended until 9 June when the bill came to this House of Commons, we thought it was enough, what we couldn't really overlook, we didn't know at that point that there would be a two-week session, otherwise nothing would be questionable. But nothing like this, if we pass the law tomorrow, it can be published in "The People's News" on Monday or Tuesday, and nothing will be disputed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39524	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, colleague Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39525	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State. Here, I'll start here where the secretary of state stopped. So it says that this law must come into force before June 30th. Today, June 30th, therefore, there is almost no longer any theoretical possibility for this law to enter into force before 30th of June, all for reasons for children, parents and the public to be informed in time about the introduction of state graduation for high school students, in accordance with Article 25. The law. So, since it didn't happen, then children, parents and the public won't be informed in time about the introduction of state graduations, etc. I'll talk about that state graduation a little bit later, but the fundamental question that State's graduation concerns when we're already talking about students and parents being informed whether this state's graduation is at the same time a classification exam for college. This is a fundamental question that they are interested in, but this question is not answered by this Law. Thus, he does not answer the most important question. The question, therefore, is what would they lose, what would they lose if this law did not come into force before 30 June. But a little bit more about State's graduation later, and now generally about the law. The law actually has three parts that are non-consistent to each other. The first issue is school management and this whole context of the law can be marked as further centralisation, unnecessary centralisation, step back. The second question is working-law relations that are more or less controversial, even if I'm going to say something about it later. And of course, the third and biggest question, however, about it, the Law hardly speaks of it, it's a matter of state graduation. So, on what is the real shift in this law, a really big step forward is this state prom, but on this state graduation except for the deadline when it should be introduced, this law is practically saying nothing, and I'm afraid that this and the way that this state graduation is going to be introduced in the wrong way. Already today, I need to know something about how the state's prom is going to be introduced, what the procedure is going to be, what its structure is going to be, etc. However, this Law hardly speaks of it, and there is virtually nothing about it in the light of the Law. But first by these individual points, these whole changes. So this is the Law which is the further centralization of the secondary school system. The question is why does the proposer do it? Of course, if you have a centralized system that some things are easier to do. Some decisions are easier to make, some problems you avoid, but you get a fundamental lack of system that it is centralized and that everything is decided from one center. Therefore, there is no possibility that as wide as possible the number of subjects can be involved in decision-making. That's the point, actually, and democracy and all that maybe making decisions is a little longer, a little more complicated, but ultimately, those decisions are more quality. The easiest question is to bridge these problems by going back to the centralization of the system. Speaking of which, it should be asked whether the Ministry that wrote this Law consulted the Government's Centralisation Commission. The government has set up a decentralisation committee, which among other things has the task of preparing and decentralisation in the education system, both basic and medium. Obviously, this Law is completely contrary to what the objectives of the Government's decentralisation commission are, and the Government's bodies should act naturally in line. The second question is whether regional and regional self-government units and the same regional and regional self-government units have been consulted on this Act. One of the basic provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government is that when you enter into matters of the competence of units of local or regional self-government to obtain their opinion and get their consent, if possible. This time of course, I suppose, it wasn't done because I assume that no county would easily agree as the founder to reduce its rights, reduce its powers, reduce its powers for the account of the central authorities. Thus, not only has this step taken back on centralisation but the European Charter of Local Self-Government has been violated, which in itself is not a problem. That we're going exactly the opposite of the direction we're supposed to go. Decentralisation and in the segment of education is a path to which we will surely go, surely decentralisation in this country will advance with these small shifts back like this Law. Therefore, the question is why does the Ministry of Education do so when it is clear that our destiny or what we must certainly do in the next 5 years or I do not know how strong decentralisation and in the segment of secondary education. I will not specify what specific examples and solutions are here in the Law on Centralisation. That's, that's what we were talking about, so we don't need to talk about it too much. As far as working relationships are concerned, some solutions can be accepted from this Law, but I would ask at least two questions. It is said here that the teacher who is returning from abroad is being taught some items for the children of Croats living there, he is being kept a job. And we know that our principals don't keep their jobs in primary and secondary schools. So it seems to me that the function and duties of the director, his ability to return after a few years, so that he wouldn't have to be the director all his life, is to return to the same place he went to the headmaster's office, so that he could return, teach his class. It seems to me that this is somehow more necessary and likely and has more cases like this than it is for the insurance of that place for our teachers who teach Croatian children abroad. I am for that solution, it is a good solution and they should be able to do so, but in particular, you should consider leaving such an opportunity to our directors because they or they have no place to go back so they are forced to be directors their whole life, which is often the case or in some ways that are not entirely in accordance with the Law, they keep their jobs, at their school or at their fellow school. So, in some neighborhood, all of this could be dealt with naturally by allowing them to return from where they went to the principal's post. And I have to mention here, too, that is to say, even if it was said, the question of a business conditioned failure to teachers who have difficulties in the mental state. So, people who are disabled, so they're sick. And this solution that is now proposed is actually a step back in terms of social protection of the rights of such people. We have so far had the opportunity to employ these people inside, therefore, schools, within the system, not in those places where they worked. Now, if that's not the case, then if they don't have the right place, then they get a business-conditional notice, as well as those to whom the school offered a place of replacement, and they didn't accept it. So we're equating one category that refused to accept the offer, and one category that that place wasn't even offered because there's no place in that school. This is a high level of social insensitivity especially for this last category of people who have psycho-physically impaired health, whose school did not even offer a replacement place, and instead without any coincidence and without any consequences giving business conditions of notice. This is a very strong step back in terms of social sensitivity and the protection of the social rights of such people, whose rights should, in particular, be protected. And finally, the biggest step in this Law is national graduation and national exams, however, nothing and almost nothing is said about it, something about what it might look like can be seen if this budget is looked at, and then it's seen by these budget texts that will be for 2008 and 2009, which should be much more seriously accessible to the planning of that state graduation, and here it's not at all talking about something that seems even more difficult to me, even more complicated, which are national exams, national exams that should be periodical and throughout high school education, national exams that should also be conducted from this centre of external evaluation of education, so from the state level, should be unique, should be standardised, periodical and throughout education here not speak a word. The assumption that you can have a high-quality state graduation, and I agree with all those who said there would be difficulties at first in the first year, and this should be of particular concern to you that you have developed a well-planned system of these national exams. Here national exams, about the costs of these national exams, about the people who will conduct these national exams, about the catalogues of knowledge for these exams absolutely nothing is said, therefore, it is very questionable what will happen to our system of graduation, if we don't even have a elaborate system of national exams, and that the matter is even worse if the development plan for education education education education system is read in 2005 to 2010, which, by the way, is a bunch of phrases, I will only read some of these phrases like "that the knowledge and abilities of Croatian citizens focus on creating the necessary synergy of global development", so who can understand that, which actually means. It is not a unique case in the document, most of the document is rich in such phrases. Some things for which a solution has already been found for 50 years, such as a formulation in collaboration with the ministries in charge of economic and regional development, will develop national, regional education-based educational profiles, in order to develop human potential development plans, and will encourage changes in line with these plans. Well, that's the thing that's been saying for 50 years, we've been talking very intensely for the last five years, is that something that can be a plan for development, education and basic education 1005? In 2010, it should be a taste of measures of complete plans, not some phrases that have been known for 50 years, especially some of which we have been talking so intensively about for the past 5 years. In this document, I am going back to the question of state graduation, it says that the new national curricula for secondary schools, which will follow the needs of the labour market will be completed by 2010 and will follow the principles... for primary school, should this national curricula not be a premise for standardisation of the learning process in our secondary schools and, on the basis of this, a presumption of national exams, and only then, a presumption of national graduation. And here, in the plan for the development of systems, education and basic education, it says that this national curricula will be completed by 2010, so that it is possible to expect that the state's graduation for which it has not been well worked out and national exams to be successful in 2009. So these are all very big questions that are not settled here in this law. It would be good if we had a bar to explain the indications of these solutions and it is a very demanding process which will cause very serious difficulties especially in the first few years of its change. Based on all of this, of course, I'm just saying, so this law is a step back in terms of management and professional autonomy of secondary schools, we absolutely don't need it, we're not going to have much harm from it, but we're not going to have any use for it, we're going to have small shifts back because those big questions haven't answered and that's the question of state graduation, and it's just one proposal that I made on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and PGS, which is that this law is to be proposed to the Croatian Parliament for 6 months. Namely, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture was when we discussed the Law on Fundamental Education that we adopted on 10 June this year, dissatisfied with this law, which proposed that a new Law on Fundamental Education be proposed within 6 months to the Croatian Parliament. Since this Law almost entirely reflects the solutions to the law on basic education, it would be logical that, when we discuss the law on basic education, we could also discuss these two interlinked laws in a unique way, so that both the final decision and the one and the other law should be better than it would be if we had a partial discussion only of the law on basic education. So I suggested, on behalf of the HNS PGS Representatives Club, that the government propose a law on secondary education to us within 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39526	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the time has elapsed for a ten-minute hearing on this agenda item. One correction to the incorrect allegations of the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39527	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Rados said that some provisions of this law reduce the county's powers. No, the county's powers are not being reduced here, but the founder's powers are being given here to appoint school boards and give prior consent to the statutes, and the founders, since 2001, have just been the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39528	Thank you. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39529	Mr. President, colleague Roksandic did not correct the incorrect assumption and, in this sense, injured Rule 209's Rules of Procedure because in resolving this Law which says that the school board has been disbanded, which so far has been the jurisdiction of the county and today it is, according to this new solution, it is now the authority of the state administration body, so it is the transfer of powers from the level of county to the state administration and certainly a reduction of the powers of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39530	A misunderstanding, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. State Secretary Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'm going to take a brief look at these findings of yours, first of all when you talk about deadlines, I'm in the opening letter on this, but here I would point out that for all of the most relevant day of enrolment, not the day of registration itself. Furthermore, you said on several occasions that when it comes to national exams and when it comes to national graduation that nothing was said in the draft amending the law. I refer you to pages 3 and 4 of that section on the assessment of the situation and the consequences that will result from this Law and, therefore, in the part that speaks of the assessment of the situation and the consequences that will result from that law and in the part where the estimated costs for the state budget are spoken of, and all this exposure that I had at the beginning is, in fact, an integral part of the proposal of the law as it does otherwise. When it comes to the costs of national exams, then I must say that these costs are not only this part that is listed in the table but they will actually be the regular costs of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and when we passed this law in the Croatian Parliament, then we said how much the adoption of this law will cost and what dynamics will be employed by persons at the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. The content of national exams and national graduations, a complete project should not be so set up that it explains everything in the law and that it goes in the same width as you mentioned. So this fundamental question that you've been talking about is a lot of talk, and in this part we're actually just determining the opening of a legal opportunity to introduce the state's graduation in three articles, so in the third where it's about national exams, in the 25th where it's said that the state's graduation is being introduced in both the 17th and the 25th where it refers. Speaking of centralisation or decentralisation, I must remind myself that the founders of primary schools, county and 32 cities in the Republic of Croatia and the founders of secondary schools are the county and city of Zagreb. You mentioned disbanding the school board. I have to make it clear here that the proposed provisions are not aimed at without reason at derogating the founding rights of units of local and regional regional self-government, but are trying to ensure effective protection of general interest. It is indisputable to say that the school is a public institution, and it is one whose services are mandatory and whose use is a matter of pleasure. So it's about the highlighted general public interest. It is also an undeniable right of the central state to intervene in situations of frequent serious violations of the law and in accordance with the provisions of Article 66. The law on institutions of desire is an effective way of sanctioning the illegal behaviour of the managing body in schools and the irresponsibility of the founders who oversee that body and who have the opportunity to take certain actions before the intervention of the central state is necessary. In the case of education, it cannot be accepted as one measure but as set out in Article 66. The law on institutions because judicial termination of the school is certainly not in the interest of students, nor parents, nor of the general interest of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39532	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39533	A very good colleague, or Mr. Secretary of State, said that everything that needed to be explained was stated in the explanation. However, I have said that almost nothing about national exams has been mentioned. National exams are a very important assumption that national prom could be conducted in quality. And there was at least something to say about national exams. What's said elsewhere, not in the basic law that introduces national exams, is not enough. What this budget says is about state graduation and not national exams.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39534	Thank you. Dear Representative Dorothy Pesic-Bukovac on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39535	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Here today, as we all know, is June 30th and today students are enrolled in high school for the school year 2005/2006. And today we're discussing the High School Act. Tomorrow we'll probably vote on it and that means our future high school students don't know what conditions they're enrolling in and what they're waiting for in their schooling. This law, according to the IDS, should come on the agenda at the beginning of the school year but have the entire school year to prepare and start applying from the course of the next school year. Such an approach would give everyone time to prepare for students, parents, teachers and founders. The IDS Club can therefore not support this bill and through my debate you will see also, of course, other comments that the IDS has since we believe that there is a very important matter that has come to us by emergency procedure, as the Law on elementary schooling has also come to an urgent procedure at the last session. It was still a school year, but now as far as high school is concerned, even the school year is over. We in IDS must indeed express our regret that this is how the government plays with us not only but with the future of young people who need to be educated and their schooling conditions change practically every school year. It seems to me that this Law amending the Law on secondary education has been written by practically the same person who wrote the same law on primary education because it is the same way and the same are the mistakes. Although I must say, the Ministry has sent the questions and asked the union and the Association of Croatian High School Directors for opinions, none of their opinions or suggestions have been respected, and I doubt, indeed, the well-meaning of the ministry to address the high school system effectively and in quality. The work version came too, according to the IDS, too late. She didn't show up until late April this year at the High School Office. Given the suggestions that were made there then, we must say that there were good ones and that the government did not really put any of them into its proposal. I will list only a few examples that we thought were good and should be included in this proposal to amend and supplement the law. First, that the Director may return after the Director’s job has ceased to be done to work on which he has previously worked or to other tasks for which he fulfils the conditions. Secondly, to open up the possibility in exceptional situations of selecting teachers without competitions such as when a teacher gets sick at the end of the school year and you have to go to competitions that according to ideal circumstances must surely last 20 days. And in that time, the school year can end. Thirdly, it is necessary to open up the possibility for high school principals to continue to be educated, to be able to advance in the profession and to give them the opportunity to get mentors and advisors. Fourth, to introduce state graduates into the high-school system since the 2005/2006 school year. but only as an experimental program. The way in which a state graduate is introduced under this law is such that it is introduced only in high school and it should be asked what is wrong with other four-year-old schools, for example Central Medical, Hotel-Tourist, Economic. They're all good and high-quality schools and now it's gonna be like everybody wants to go to high school and there's gonna be a lot of pressure on them and we know they can't all go to high school. And of course, the rest is undefined in what way these students will go to college afterwards. The remarks that we have on the bill can only go a little bit by articles may be clearer. In Article 10, we believe that, instead of an educational inspector, the right to propose to the school board a discharge of directors, that possibility should be given to the founder. If the school board fails to resolve the director on the basis of a proposal from the founder, it shall not be the right to inform the minister of this, and in case the minister assesses that the proposal has been established to disband the school board as well as to give the founder. In this way, the founder would be given at least some powers and the possibility of affecting the resolution of the director for whom he assesses that the functions are not carried out in accordance with the law and the Statute. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of the Law on secondary education under an emergency procedure, Article 11 states that more powers are to be conferred on the founders. The proposed Article 11 amending Article 50 has amended the composition and the way in which the school board is appointed. Instead of the current 9 school board will have 7 members. 3 from the ranks of teachers and professional associates proposed by the teaching council, 2 from the parents proposed by the parent council, two from the founders' order. That if I go back to before it's the same as in elementary school. All seven members will be appointed founder. The question in which the founder's rights are greater when the founder's appointment of 5 members of the school board is related to proposals from the teaching council and the parent council. The founder's appointment of all 7 members and, of course, 5 members are not independent but must be carried out by other people's proposals in no way gives him greater rights. The influence of the founders will not be achieved through the work of the school board and will not further have the potential to influence the selection of directors. So much for the greater rights of founders. We in the IDS suggest that the composition of the school board has at least 3 members in the founding office. Two teachers, two parents and three founders. Article 12, we believe that it gives too much authority to an educational inspector or that the sole founder can determine that a member of the school board does not fulfil his obligations. The person who appoints has jurisdiction in determining the reasons for the resolution. Why is the authority of an educational inspector involved? In addition to why was the authority to disband the school board given to the Office of State Administration in the county rather than the founder? In this regard, we are also proposing some amendments, so we will see if the Ministry will be willing to accept them. So we're proposing jurisdiction for disbanding the school board that it should be given to the founder. Article 13 proposes to be deleted because we do not see a reason for the secretary of commerce to be established by the statutes. Neither in other institutions nor in those in culture, health or social care is the practice of establishing the affairs of the secretary by the statute without saying that it is ridiculous for the minister to determine the number of administrative and technical staff in individual schools. As far as Article 19 is concerned, we also feel that it is not good that although there is no final judgment, the teacher can get away from work and give him only half the salary. In Article 23, if it is established that the teacher is unable to fulfil obligations due to impaired psycho-physical health, he needs to be offered another post. We must really, as it has already been said today, be socially sensitive and indeed offer other jobs if not even a disability pension, and even today it has been said that teachers could be given an unfettered job. In Article 29 of the 60-day period for the harmonisation of the statutes and 90 for the appointment of the school board is too short. The same question arises who will perform the coordination? The existing school committees, which is legally questionable because the amended law will establish a different system of school committees as well as the way in which they are appointed. Or a new school board, which is legally questionable again, because first of all it is necessary to amend the statutes of schools in order to appoint school committees based on amended statutes. We believe that this issue was to be resolved by transitional and final provisions of the law because this represents another legal void and doubt. Regardless of this unwarranted indiscriminateness, there is another problem. It is obvious that in the process of compliance with the Law of the County Assembly, they must decide twice. Once agreed to amend and supplement the statutes of schools, and secondly on the appointment of a member of the school boards. If the Act on Amendments and Supplements enters into force in early July, as is possible until the beginning of the school, and this is to bring the statutes in line with the consent of the representative bodies to that effect more than the summer period when, as a rule, representative bodies do not meet at least in August, and schools do not work either. The fact is that before the start of the school year, school committees determine the curricula and programme and other activities in the function of educational and educational work of the school. By the start of school, the new school boards will not be appointed. Will the current school boards function as managing bodies until the appointment of new ones? This should be established in the transitional and final provisions. We in the IDS think that, after all this, there will be nothing since the decontralisation of education and that centralisation is being reintroduced and that the minister becomes to say "a cadica for all" to the people and the founders of the local self-government are being demoted. Even if the minister brings about where they're going to go on a field trip or I don't think it's necessary to talk. And lastly, I think that when everyone comes with some kind of school law proposal, they always say that this is one of the transitional solutions and that we need to make complete solutions, but I haven't seen that it could go into some kind of systematic reform and that we have some whole solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39536	Thank you very much. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39537	Honorable President, honourable MPs and MPs! I would like to make a brief comment on what the esteemed Ms. Prosecution mentioned in her debate. The preparations for the introduction of the State Prosecution were launched in 2003. If we'd like to go in preparation the way you suggest that all this be thoroughly prepared then we should start from primary school. Then we could count on the state's graduation to be introduced in about 15 years. What you suggested to be an experimental prom for four years, so in 2008, you know what that would mean? That would mean that, we want to relieve the students and turn the two stressful situations into one. So, of course, high schools will say theirs. So instead of prom and entrance exam, you only have prom. And to admit it instead of a lot of exams. What you're proposing would mean that in that experimental year, students are taking their graduation because they have to have a certificate of completion. They suggest they take an experimental graduation and, of course, take the entrance exam. You would have introduced three such situations, and that experimental prom wouldn't have given them any indicators. Why? Because students know they're only worth their graduation because she's a condition to show up at college and she's a certificate of completion. They wouldn't be motivated at all if they took experimental prom and didn't take it seriously. We wouldn't have any feedback or benefits from that. And for these reasons in such a way go into introducing experimental graduation really isn't worth it. Better, then you better not go. Furthermore, when we talk about high schools, so those who enroll in 2005, 2006 and professional and artistic schools in 2006, in 2007, then a year later, there are reasons for this. So we're ready for high school at this point. I can go to prom right now. And these others go a year later because we are in agreement with the Croatian Chamber of crafts, with all the partners and social partners you mentioned agreed that we need to do some more jobs so that they are ready for graduation. Right now we have 527 occupations and programs, too. So we have occupations that are out of date, no one's looking for anymore, for which schools don't ask for first-class approval. That number is almost 300 with everyone you mentioned. We in this year want to make it clear which programs remain, which programs we will modernise, which will no longer be. It's only when we do that job, and a year is enough for us because we've established the Professional Education Agency that's going to run it all together, then they're going to be ready. As for your findings, please don't give the wrong information to the public. So nothing changes at this point. The conditions for enrolment in the university are laid down by graduation or a final exam. The moment the state's graduation replaces the prom and the final exam, the moment will be the condition for enrollment in the university as a state prom. So there's no question what they're going to do with vocational education now. The point is very clear. Furthermore, you are talking about the return of the Director after their term of office. Oh, that would be great, and we'd have more candidates to report to the principals now. Some won't because they don't know where they'll end up, but the Labour Act won't let us. We can't. So that's actually the problem. Well, we wouldn't be running away from a better solution. Next, you're talking about the founder, about centralised. Well, the founder's a county. I don't know if you in Istria will deny the right of your colleagues from Bui who propose, say, members of the school board on behalf of the founder. If you won't admit it, you'll do whatever you want, then there's something wrong. We count on this job to be done in good faith. Furthermore, you are talking about administrative staff and why the minister will prescribe it. I have to warn you, this is a big system. Well, we have this situation year after year. The number of high school students is reduced, the number of departments is reduced, and the number of executives is increasing. Every year, the number of executioners increases. Last year in primary school, more than a thousand were increased, while the number of students decreased. In high school, half as much. So if we're gonna let them sort it out in some other way in schools, I'm afraid they're gonna hire five administrative workers. Next, you said 60 and 90 days. You're right, so the amendments have already been submitted within that time limit, obviously you won't be able to do all this. So make it 90, make it 120 days. We're not against it. So we accept amendments that will improve these changes, we accept all better solutions, why not? And finally, excursions. Don't caricate, please. Nowhere there has been said what the minister will prescribe, when it comes to one, I said very clearly at the beginning, a framework for carrying out excursions because it has not actually been so far. Well, of course they won't prescribe what you said, where they'll travel and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39538	Okay. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39539	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HSP club primarily holds that it is high time to return to all the pores and structures of society and live up to the principle of knowledge and profession as a basic prerequisite for Croatia's improvement on the one hand, and on the other hand to stimulate children and youth in the school system, so that their knowledge and success will be a ticket for active inclusion in all the pores and structures of society. Let us be aware that unfortunately all these good values, meaning principles, have been annulled so far. Just take, say, examples that you know yourself that we have had and we have both ministers and officials who were essentially the first job. We had a minister in the government who had a first job as a minister in the government. We also have a day today, before we had a deputy, or state secretary, assistants who couldn't be advisors in some government body, who became assistants, ministers and state secretarys, senior officials. And therefore, we from the Croatian Parliament, so we from politics give false, bad examples of youth and children if we speak to them, have good success, acquire knowledge because it is the possibility of entering and the best ticket for inclusion in all structures and pores of society. And that's the greatest value for us that we have to go back to because if we don't go back to those values, we're automatically coming to the situation we're in right now. From this point of view and to the public, normally, it is interesting and it would be good for the public to know the most important issue of these amendments and the addition of the Law regarding the State's graduation. It's this one full projection of how you see this whole process, this whole process. It's very important to say. It is important now to tell these students who are enrolled in high school because we ourselves know that in the current system the medals are freed from prom. Now it's important to know exactly if that part is going to be stimulated in all of it. Whether it will be the same situation if the class passes for passing or if it is decorated. So that's what the public needs to know, what the students need to know, what the bride needs to know. That those girls are told to see that projection so they know what's there and how to do it. It means yes, but again in all that I say there's time because now it's just being introduced. It's four years old, but it needs to be comprehensive. First, many of us MPs should explain this to voters, i.e. citizens, children. They often come here to the Croatian Parliament organized by GONG and they have such questions. That's what they asked us during this year, what it would look like. In which way it will be done. And now, is it going to be the same situation if a child goes through, say, classes with enough, very good, great, how they're going to reflect it at the end of that national prom? Is it going to be something for him or is it just going to be a measure of how he's going to go to that national prom? So these are the questions that interest, so students, who are interested in parents, who are interested in the general public. So let's just say it to the girl, usually, it'll be like that. Let's do these projections. Let the ministry, let the government do something about it to get to know the public. Because now it's just that it's known, it's the state's graduation, it's the school's year of 2005/2006. So for high school and high school, that's what's waiting for them. I mean, for high school, first of all, I'm telling you from this aspect that your students are going to do it. But they don't know now, so. Therefore, it is expected in public. One part is expected to know exactly what and what it will look like. And then let's make that system stimulate if the student is great, if he has great results, if he has knowledge. That it would make his ticket easier with the state's graduation. And for college, it'll be easier for him. And after finishing school, or college, it's already finished, that it's going to be his ticket again, let's say for a start to the state administration. For public services, what the state has and can have influence. So we return, so this trust and youth and one side of stimulation. And let's do something that's important to do at this point. It is also necessary to see exactly and those versions are possible, so the variations that someone will finish those 4 classes, but given the circumstances they won't be able to, did not pass the state's graduation or won't be able to pass the state's graduation. What happens to him now, he's finished four classes, and you must know the same thing. Whether he's going to get some kind of a degree, something, but that's all that's essentially a simulation, which is actually possible, which is what's going to happen, we need to be aware of all these situations. Therefore, these are the rights and probably for the public, the most important issues in this entire project, which is why I will not specifically refer to these other situations, so we also support the proposals related to the statutes for the deadline for adoption is 60 days, is the short term, we know and the situation itself, the entries, the annual holidays of all this should not be on the neck, we know what the situation is and everything else, but when we commit the Government to adopt the sublegal rules within 60 days or 6 months then these are the instructive deadlines, and now it would come to this for the inspector to propose that these committees and everything else be dissolved, but when it comes to ministers, then the government is then it is an instructive deadlines or mandatory deadlines, and now, on the basis, let's give them enough time, and enough opportunities, we should also think about the composition of this school board, and everything else, and for the election itself, we know that there are always the key to be in the decision of the city, which we have to make in the right of the right of law, and the right of law, so that we don't take to the right of law, and the right of the law, which we don't go to the right of the law, so we't we't. It's good, I think it's necessary here once what we're going to do and tomorrow to consider this question, which is when the affairs of the state administration are transferred specifically to the city. In particular, I think of the City of Zagreb, here is a mistake about the name of this office because the name of the Office was changed the other day, and it is part of the amendment but I am primarily interested in this character because it is all mixed there, they are in the same body doing the tasks of the self-rule and the tasks of those transferred affairs from the jurisdiction that the state has given, if the state is carrying something on me then it has the right and can condition and say how and in what way that part will be done. Because Zagreb is specific in other structures is about the offices of those state administrations that are not under the jurisdiction of neither the county nor the city but are under the authority of the Government. And these things will have to be well regulated both here and on the Law on civil servants and tenants and all other situations that arise in order to know exactly how and how and how then the state and government can react in terms of violations of implementation and regulations and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39540	Thank you very much. State Secretary Želimir Janjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39541	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, of course, the City of Zagreb changed its name yesterday and we will deal with it by amendment. As for information, thank you very much for your concern about informing all students, their parents and teachers, I just want to remind you that we took care of this brochure, that last year we sent this brochure to every school, that this brochure was followed by a questionnaire, so this was a proposal for a national approach, to which we were asked from all schools, from all high schools to be manifest, to send questionnaires based on all the feedback that came to the council of the project, we adopted a model of national approach, so this was something that was a prerequisite to find ourselves here. The moment the amendments to the Law are made, then what has been passed will be the brochure and will wait for the students in September when they appear in schools. So, thank you very much for your concern, but I want to tell you that we really care about this and that our students and that our teachers, based on this, are based on the many gatherings that we have held throughout the Republic of Croatia, that they are extremely well addressed to all of this and that there is no fear of their information. Perhaps only one object, when it comes to medals, so colleges are worth the success of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd grade and the 4th grade success of the exam will be the same when the state graduate is introduced, is valued in 1, 2, 3rd and 4th grade and national graduation. So when the national prom doesn't get released, they're actually going to be easier to do because they're extremely good students, and they actually have to have a certificate of completion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39542	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Željko Ledinski's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39543	Dear Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. We have long announced the bill on amendments and amendments to the law on secondary education with the final proposal, it is absolutely certain that the issues that impose the current situation in the secondary education subsystem are to be regulated in a new way,... some of the existing solutions are to be adapted to new legal and scientific and pedagogical knowledge. I'm going to divide this debate into two parts first of all and... look back at some legal solutions in this proposal and then point to the need for full legislative solutions of secondary school to improve it. First of all, what is proposed in the amendments and additions. Article 3 determines the introduction of a system of national examinations, firstly we perceive the notion of ambiguity, the concepts of national exams, and only the evaluation of schools are not synonyms. ... translates as the teaching centre for the external evaluation of education says, and the framework elements of school evaluations are prescribed by the minister, there are no definitions of these two concepts and logically that only the evaluation which indicates the name itself is carried out by schools themselves for internal needs. For self-detecting the situation and changing it. The question arises whether exams will be conducted from all teaching classes, whether they will be conducted every school year. The exams are conducted by a national centre which is a technical issue but it is important to ask who prepares the exams, the questions under which methodology, who processes and interprets these results. If exams are conducted by a national centre, it is obvious that this work too requires money. And that's not what you're talking about. In the light of this article, it is said, among other things, that the results can be used to set standards and standards, to evaluate and essentially prepare students and teachers for national graduation. This expresses too much and unreal expectations. In particular, the comments made and the different purpose and application of the methodology. The intention of the law should be to support and similar practice exists in a large number of other education systems or article needs to be more clearly defined. In Article 7 of the principal of the school is defined as a professional head and taken away from him a pedagogical function. It is argued that such a solution is in line with the Law on Institutions, but we believe that education, here it is about secondary schooling, is particularly different from that of its own tradition, function and purpose, is summed up in education and education based on pedagogical knowledge, on the pedagogical relationship of participants in the process of education and education. In view of these specificities, we advocate a provision according to which the principal of the school is a pedagogical head. Article 10 shall regulate the way the Director is resolved before the end of the term of office can be supported. However, it remains not resolved as well as in primary school the position of director after the end of the term of office and when it has not been re-elected. Article 11 sets out the number of members of the school board. The proposal says the term of office takes four years for a member of the school board and from the ranks of parents, students during the course of schooling. School situations are specific to all of us, so it can happen that the student repeats the class. Will a parent, for example, be a member of the school board then for five years. It is therefore necessary to define more clearly the term of office of members of the parents and to respect the fundamental principle of the duration of the term of office. In the same article, it would be better to replace the term "adopt" with "bring" because the school board is considering and then brings its own acts. Article 17 sets out the state graduation for high school students and four-year vocational schools and art schools. It is an innovation in Croatian education and should be supported but we also warn as best professionally as possible and as responsible as possible. However, certain issues and doubts arise. It is true that the minister's obligation to determine the conditions, the way and the procedure for the state's graduation will only be necessary today to decide on very important issues and solutions that can have far-reaching consequences. What's national high school? Whether it allows a student who successfully submits direct enrolment to the desired study or is a prerequisite for enrolment and may also be a substitute for selection procedures. So, what is national prom according to article 17? Who will also define when it is a prerequisite for enrolment or replacement for selection procedures? Such vague formulations that do not talk about being a state graduate are completely questionable and may lead to false conclusions and expectations. This proposal should specify the main teaching subjects from which it will be examined and which other documents will be prepared, such as the Law on graduation, the Prom, the Rules on the Making of Prom, the Regulation on the Protection of Probation and the like. Under the law, the national prom is conducted by the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education, however, the practice shows that the so-called "nomination" should be named. the national prom committee which is to be stated in the law. Therefore, as an element of external evaluation, the State's graduation should be supported but Article 17 should be more clearly defined and it contains other important provisions so as not to be too principled and has great importance in the life of our youth. Article 20 defines the establishment of a working relationship without competition with non-compliant persons, i.e. non-professional teaching. In our opinion, it is a bad solution to repeat the competition every five months. This cannot be said with certainty that a professional will appear and be selected and the procedure is irrational and requires not small money issues which do not go in favour of our schools at this time of bad material condition. Therefore, the intensities of the amendment and the addition of the Law on secondary education could be supported but should be seriously complemented by the observations made here today by most clubs and in that section if, until the vote itself, the Government corrects and indeterminates the HSS Club will support this proposal. Otherwise, we won't be able to support him. But two, I'd like to say a few words about how we move forward, not solving this bill. First of all, I'd like to say a few notes to think about when we're talking about high school. When we say this, we mean the necessary adoption of a concept of development of Croatian education, and in this context, it is necessary to address some of the burning issues of secondary education. And I'm going to say just a little short, which is what they are, and I don't think they need any importance. We can easily make sure that the network of schools and programs is irrational already today but should be monitored as part of demographic movements, so the problem will be even more pronounced. That we have valid solutions to horizontal and vertical passing through the system, so there are more blind streets in front of students than clear visions and opportunities to advance. High school is not sufficiently linked to the economy and needs of the environment in which the school works. The school cannot respond to the needs of the economy. It takes a new step of decentralisation, but I would say on one example in practice not this way that we have, for example, ten upper secondary schools that produce certain personnel that can't then and have no place to work, we already have over a thousand at the Employment Service. Therefore, it is also necessary to have one specific and not specific but great cooperation between the economy and real opportunities in certain times to follow. Also, there is great dissatisfaction with the registration policy. The criteria and criteria for selecting candidates rely exclusively on an assessment that is not always a good indicator of the student’s ability and interest in an occupation. It is insufficient to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement under Article 94, which reads "the parties will co-operate to raise the level of general education and professional qualifications in Croatia.". There is no model for preparing candidates who want to be school principals like there is no model that would direct the existing principal to modern forms of school management. And to conclude, existing laws need to be harmonised and amended, but Croatia also needs full visions. Today it is clear to everyone that choosing education is the choice of society. Can't we care whether our young ones succeed or not? As we can't care whether our teachers and teachers have decent working conditions and a decent social position? So we encourage new and better quality steps in Croatian schooling on these specifics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39544	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to the word in this wheel. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39545	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'd first of all like to show a protest. I expected that these amendments to the Law on secondary education would finally allow cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants to exercise their right under the Law on Local Self-Government, which gives them the opportunity to be founders of secondary schools. Unfortunately, here is neither this amendment nor the addition of the law nor any other possibility that cities realize this and that indeed cities that have more than 30,000 inhabitants, who have fiscal capacity and who want to become founders of secondary schools. I think this would further contribute to the development of secondary education in particular in certain increases in standards, quality and diversity of secondary education. Unfortunately, here's what they're not allowed to do. As far as the timing of the law itself is concerned, I don't see why we received the Law on Fundamental Education at the last session, and at this session, the Law on Middle Education, because basically the same law is the same except that this Law introduces the prom, right? The rest of the school board is really the same. I almost put it that way, and it was time for it to be done at the same time, so that we wouldn't come to such a teat that in an explanation we would say that something would start from yesterday. That's possible, though. It might be good to say in Article 30 that this Law enters into force on the day of its publication and will apply from 29.6. This is possible retroactive application of the law, so if it is so important to the legislator, it may be important for formal reasons because applications and enrolments in high school already started yesterday. Maybe it wouldn't really be worse if such a provision in, uh, was governed by the law. We finally had the fastest law-making today. Practically within an hour of the government's drafting of the bill, he was adopted. I think he might have already come into effect so there's no reason why we shouldn't do this, this kind of possibility, or that we don't get into a situation where, eventually, our parents and students have complained that they've enrolled in high school, and that only after they've enrolled in high school is a public high school because at the time they've enrolled, no law has been passed that prescribed that they're going to enroll in a program that ends in state, state high school. And now some concrete remarks or suggestions that the Proposer might consider. Article 2 where Article 22a is added), I think it is really good, that it is a quality new, especially this first part where education of students with developmental difficulties is introduced, but I think there should have been some obligation of not founder but of the Ministry to ensure the necessary conditions for education of such children. They, such children, obviously cannot go to crowded classrooms. Such children sometimes need tailored and benches and tailored sanitary nodes and so on and so forth that our schools do not provide, and since there is a commitment here then it will come to the fact that the founders who are now responsible for this will not be able to ensure, in such short time, the realization of Article 2 so that it may be seen or that some deadline for the implementation of this Article 2 or that the Ministry undertakes to make it possible for the founders to create spatial conditions for the realization of the article, Article 2. As far as article 48 is concerned, the secretary of state said he had some issues with the principal. The Director may be appointed a person who may also be a teacher, but I suggest that it be installed there so that the Director cannot be appointed as a person who has misused authority and position because then we will avoid the situation so that such a person can be re-appointed as, for the Director. According to the law, therefore, a director who is relieved because of abuse of authority and position can indeed be re-appointed as a director because this Law does not prevent him from doing so. What I don't think is right by this law is settled, which is the question of the relationship between the founders, the chambers and the parents. I don't see any reason, since the school boards are working without compensation, that they're going to cut the number of members of the school board from 9 to 7. I do not see what this will significantly contribute to the effectiveness of the work of these school boards unless the purpose of this provision is indeed to change all school boards in high schools, which under this law is a commitment by the end of the 9th month or if the amendment is adopted will be an obligation by the end of the school year. If that's the point, then let's just say it's so clear, but then in no way will it improve the work of the school boards by being seven members, not nine members. What I think is quality and good is that now the founder appoints all the members of the school board. So far, it has been a delegate system and founder in no way been able to influence members of the school board who have delegated in sometimes strange ways parents and teachers. So, I hope that the statute will be prescribed now really strictly as both representatives of parents and representatives of workers, or teachers, are elected. And then he will finally come to confirm to the founder who will then probably be able to say in some situations that a re-room or parents need to make a proposal for a single member of the school board. However, I think it is necessary to open a debate on what is the role of founders in school management. Because in this way the founder has no de facto role, since he will have only 2 out of 7 members of the school board. The school board chooses the principal, and according to this Law it turns out that much more authority and as far as school management is concerned, not professions but really school management has, for example, an educational inspector rather than a founder. Because the founder can solve only a member of the school board, he can't even solve the entire school board. This may be done by the Office of State Administration on the proposal of the Educational Inspector. The Founder can't do that. The Educational Inspector also has the authority to force someone, the school board or the Office of the State to resolve the director that again the founder does not have such authority. So here we place the founders in the position that they are essentially responsible for these schools because parents are increasingly perceived by founders, therefore, county, county and education offices in the districts responsible for the state of secondary school, and in essence they do not have sufficient influence on what is happening in that school. And I think that there should certainly be a debate about it and possibly a change of relationships within the school board. That the founder has a greater impact on the formation of the school board, and there is a need to find ways to protect the school board from political influence. But I think that 2 out of 7 is an insufficient possibility for the founder of what he or she may be, to bear full responsibility for what's going on at school. What I find totally unacceptable in this law is the role of an educational inspector. I think he has too many powers, I think he should allow anyone whose education inspector to solve or some warrant to have a second-degree authority. So I can object to someone complaining about it. According to this, it turns out that the Educational Inspector can relieve the principal and that the Educational Inspector can disband the school board. What is even more absurd, he does not do so alone but forces the school board to act on his solution, and the school board cannot in any way influence or complain about it. And likewise, it can even affect the school board's disbandment. I don't think that even has the authority under the Educational Inspection Act. There is no educational inspector of authority and that an educational inspector should really be aware of someone who can initiate, and equally, the founder alone could have the authority to disband the school board. If the founder doesn't, then the government has the ability to control the founder. He can direct administrative surveillance, he can disband the county congregation, he can do some other things. I don't think it's good for me to finish, that it's not good for an educational inspector to have powers greater than the county council. That's how we define the role of founder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39546	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm just trying to make it clear, and I'm just correcting the wrong quote of my colleague Mršić, who keeps saying that the enrolments started yesterday. The enrolment procedure in high school is next. Today, June 30th, the application for high school enrolment begins and continues on July 1st. The enrolment is not until next week. So, the student is enrolled and this first deadline exists and the second deadline immediately after the first in July. So the student is enrolled in high school when he confirms his enrolment. You said the enrolment started yesterday. Reports...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39548	Please, don't throw it away, my colleague corrected the wrong quote. Thank you very much, colleague Roxandich. We continue with the debate, respected colleagues Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec has a word. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will refer very briefly to the proposal of this Law which according to me, regardless of what I will of course support it, there are good ones, but there are also some questionable provisions. And that's why, of course, I'm glad to remember that time in the last century when I was a senior, when it was the same high school graduation if you'd been through 5 and it was a ticket for individual colleges, so we didn't have to take the entrance exams. And in a way it's back to that good old one, so to say, the civil practice that's in the meantime, I'm not going to talk about that accident of Shuvar's experimental school, it's a bad practice, so I welcome the introduction of this objective assessment of knowledge, and that's what everyone wants, that's what children who want first and finally want to confirm their status, as well as their parents, and that's what they want, and that's what they want to do, and I hope, in this time after the adoption of this law that just says it's going to be graduation, there's enough time when the university will decide, I assume that graduation as a ticket, and when, of course, all these details relating to regulation and methodology and all the types of tests and everything that doesn't apply to the foundation of the National Centre for the external evaluation of education agree, and that this will be appropriate to what has Western Europe. I would refer more to what I consider to be different from my colleague Lugaric, who says that this is a setback compared to the appointment of the school board, I think that the progress of the Law now determines that, in the composition of the school board, there must be teachers, determines that no longer janitors and cleaners can choose school directors, so it is my opinion that progress in relation to professions, and I am not sure that there will be a difference between the proposed and appointed ones because yet from the teacher's proposal will go to the founder and I am not sure that the founder will give his counter suggestions but will certainly just name what will be proposed from individual schools because it has been more or less practice everywhere. I am for the model that exists in some neighbouring European countries that have gone further in implementing the modern education system and also for the consumption of democracy, and which still have the minister or ministry involved in the whole system of appointment of directors whether in the form of direct appointment or form of certain consent given by ministers because it is not the management of the school exclusively for the management of the management but also the respect of the profession, I am not a teacher and I am not going to go to that part, but in this part of the course, the minister as a profession must follow the work of the director and must, in my opinion, in some future time as well as the spending of money that exists in every school and because such is the responsibility of the appointment of directors because I am also the organizers of the teaching process but the organizers of this other economic work as an economic part as a follower of logistics which I now exists in each school and therefore, although such is accepted that in the future I am thinking that in this model of this model, so many years, so far as those who have been the central ones who are the ones who have been the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones that And I also agree that it can be discussed whether out of those 7 of these two parents' ranks it will be if it comes to some difficult issues, on the side of those proposed by teachers or those proposed by the founders, I assume that the logic that says that it will adhere to those of the teacher's ranks and that, in principle, it will remain such a model and the Assembly will influence the selection of directors in the most part, and I suppose there will be no abuse if there is good control, of course, the founder has to take care of it. Here, in that part I also say that perhaps we could all be a little more informed about the whole process of the professional circles having led the debate, about the prom being held but in principle as a prom, introduce it or not, but about certain things that we have heard here today, we haven't had enough to talk about, and the public might know from a short time, from a short time to say the possibility that we as public representatives, as well as the general notices, and come to some dilemmas, so that we have had a little more time to talk about everything, then the solutions would be, I hope that they would be good and that through these amendments will improve the text and the proposal of the law because I hope that the promoter or myself would suggest something, or accept some of the amendments that are already here on the benches, so that with less cramps and less so to say that they would improve each other's bill that in any case they don't solve this whole, and in the way they're going to the whole market, and in fact that they're going to the whole of the whole of the whole of the key, that they's the whole of the idea that they's that they're going to be the whole, that they's going to be the whole, that they're going to be the whole, and the whole of the whole, that they's of the whole, that they's of the whole, that they's of the whole, that they's, that they're going to be going to be going to be the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right Here I thank and hope that we will all agree together and accept the improvement of the model of the organisation of secondary schools in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39550	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Replica esteemed colleague Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39551	Look, esteemed colleagues, I'm glad you've raised that question, the question of whether something is backward or progress depends on what perception is and the goal of one who values a process as backward or progressive. If your goal is to strengthen the professional autonomy of the school, if your goal is to support the professional competence of teachers. Then it's a way for teachers to be deprived of the right to choose their own members on the school board as is the case here then it's certainly a setback. If your goal is to politicise education, if your goal is to give you greater rights to founders, then to political bodies, then this provision is certainly progress for you. I think she's backwards because I think the goal should be to strengthen the autonomy of the school and strengthen the professional dignity of teachers. Secondly, about what I have to say you have said very well, perhaps a poor qualification for janitors and all those technical services at school that work and according to this proposal and they will continue and it is good and all employees participate in proposing persons. Paragraph 2. Three members are proposing school workers in the order of teachers. Read carefully the text. And thirdly, speaking of the minister it is very often mystified. The minister is primarily a political person. If she is an expert on this, she is better for all of us, but he is primarily a political person.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39552	A reply to the replica of a esteemed colleague of Judge-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39553	As I understood Article 11(1), therefore, that it would be proposed teachers, so they must be teachers. I can't be janitors and cleaners anymore. And I think I got attitude one right. What my goal is, in any case, to reconcile these two common processes called founding rights, funding and control and the expertise of teaching. So, as a final product, a well - trained child who comes out at the end of high school. In order for this to be reconciled, both components must be equally valuable. I agree that whoever and today is and it is possible to have a private school doesn't have to have a lot of philosophy and ask the founder because he's the founder, he asks himself, but if the County Assembly spends taxpayers' money from all over the county paying teachers and sending their children to that school, but please. Or the Croatian state's taxpayers pay teachers and pay material costs for those in the county. But please, from the decentralised funds that come back because at the end of the school and the city, regardless of what level these are all taxpayers' funds, then these same taxpayers must have some kind of mechanism to at least know what is going on and to sort of influence from the background and that is in this case. And I've repeated the structure and the school board and the selection of directors. So again, there is a school, a teacher, a chamber, or profession, the main word. I don't see any obstacles, I don't see any setbacks, I don't see a change in the way of funding schools or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39554	Thank you, dear colleague. Replica, a respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39555	Progress or backwards are objective categories regardless of what someone thinks when they go backwards they're making progress as far as I think they're concerned about this bill. But let's let it go now. My colleague would like to replicate directly when, out of deep conviction, he claims that this is a great progress of this law because the janitors are no longer and the cleaning lady will not participate in the selection of directors. The principal is a person who not only manages an educational process in a particular school but also cares about a whole life in a school that is a microlife that takes place at school. Fortunately, we haven't received a full - time program like other countries have, but that's what we're talking about. You see, a janitor who's been harassing children for years is a question that starts when the public is simply not so irritated but simply requires all the bodies to do something. But the janitor, please, who would participate in the selection of directors, we won't tolerate it, and not a year and a half since the amendment of the existing law that is now here in this way wants to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39556	Reply to the replica of respected colleagues Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39557	Directly replicating me, and I don't know how else she could have. It is the only institute of replicas according to the Rules of Procedure that Mrs. Anticevic directly replicates to me as I directly answer to her now. Madam MPs and colleagues, at least watch me when I answer. It would be least polite if you didn't turn your back on me and my head. So I don't know... Madam former Minister, the minimum of decency is to wave at me and see me answer to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's to bring out some kind of observation that I didn't say at all and I didn't underestimate the janitors and housewives or maids in the sense of no, I'm not by any chance doing their job, their work, but I don't think they're competent to control the teaching work in the sense of the one you told me that I'm underestimating it, and it's just teaching and education of children. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] So in that sense, I said it because I don't think they're professional enough first, and you had certain provisions that said that someone who has at least the same gear as one who chooses not two or three or five degrees smaller can talk about choosing someone. In that sense, one who is equally educated can talk about the profession and business of one who is equally or more educated than he, not five degrees less. Only in that part, and I'm not going to talk about any possible other abuses for which you have the same papers and this, this thing about the janitor and the pedophile is so low that I won't answer at all and there's no one here including myself, then my party that I represent therefore the Croatian Democratic Community and not the county from which I come that would approve any such act, and all the insinuations on that subject I think the only places where this is being solved are the centres for social work. They're witches and it's a court or a state's attorney's office. And it's going to tell yours and not us around here, so one whole worldview, not just a specific case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39558	Thank you very much. And we still have one correction to the incorrect assumption. Correction of the incorrect quote Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go. You've changed? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Okay. It's been seven hours and three minutes and 21 seconds. We're done with today's work. Tomorrow we will continue the debate on this subject. The first in line is at 9.30pm, respected colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Thank you very much. Have a good rest, good night and good night! Have a good one!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39559	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing to discuss the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on secondary education. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39560	Respect, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. There is no one from the ministry as a representative of the government, but here I responded to a call from the secretary of state who yesterday directed the representatives to contribute effectively in their debate to the better development of secondary school. But it's often just words, because here we know that from all the discussions and amendments that arise from that little or nothing has happened. The amendments to the Law on secondary education, as set out in the assessment of the situation of this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on secondary education, correctly states that a decentralised model in management and funding in secondary education was established in 2001. What, though, is the government now finding? However, it seems to the government that this system is ineffective precisely because of this, so it can only be concluded precisely because of the fact of decentralisation and instead of removing problems and that this decentralised model is perfected or improved, we now see in a series of provisions just one step further as it was established yesterday. Well, because of the occurrence of a series of illegal actions in the director's appointment process, it is necessary to prescribe an effective way of monitoring. However, an effective way of monitoring is something needed and it is an integral part of both decentralisation and democratisation, however not in such a way as to stop the decentralised system right now. Well, a good part of the amendments to the law refers precisely to removing the illegalities seen in this decentralised model of the appointment of high school principals and that it is necessary to react there. However, with a whole series of other illegalities happening in our schools in primary and secondary schools where the public is talking about both mobbing and the sexual harassment of different species that the public has finally talked about, there is not a word about it here. There is no question that although one development was announced from the ministry in terms of not only decentralisation, but also the democratisation of our education, our secondary school. There are already children, few people who need to be formed in the direction of democracy, and then, in that sense, our schools should be both primary and secondary schools of democracy. We have achieved freedom, but we have neglected to raise people for freedom and that is the problem of our education. There are still some indications in primary school, but the process then finally ends in high school benches. It's also created on a model like this, and by introducing a model like this one system, an autocratic system, a system in which the teacher is rated as a student. In the past term and past changes in 2001, we have also introduced student councils. It was therefore necessary to develop this participation and activity of students, even in the process, the teaching process and the evaluation process. That would be one big step forward, a reform step forward. But no. This law, he cares about who it is, how it's gonna be, how it's gonna be named and solved by the director. It is also not a very important thing to dispute, but when there is already a possibility and great powers are now given to the inspector on which there must also be no doubt, but then taxively there must be some reasons why violations of the legality that require the Director to be resolved. We are witnesses in local self-governments who are founding that in the event of a change of government that there is almost no I think there is no exception that has not happened that the members of the school board have been automatically changed. Therefore, in some segments of society and the military and the police and the judiciary, which are under the watchful eye of the public, both generally and professional, so that politics does not affect them, or have as little influence as possible, it seems that in high school, especially through the appointment of the director, either I say through the authority of the local self-government units or even through the central action through the central government, that influence is unbearablely large. And that's something that should have been taken care of. There is still time, even in this to intervene, and if the proposer, if he is serious about his calling to listen to discussions here by our parliamentary representatives, in order for the secondary school to improve, then, in the sense of these great and powers that the director has, and then now the inspector, to taxively indicate which violations of the legality that are causing the decision-making process of the director. One big news and it should be welcomed in any case is the introduction of a state degree, but it's no invention of our days. It's the invention of the last century, that is, the last century. It's one good thing to objectify knowledge, improve and unify. But why the fives? Why the race for good grades, for the best grades. Although the government is constantly declaring the principle of excellence, promotions of the best, it would be very interesting to look at some of the ministries that the trainees have accepted. Whether there are countless fives lying at the bottom of the bag in vain, and the twos surfaced as a scale, as a criterion. 'Cause there's this two coming with it, and there's this familiarity. If maybe we weren't guessing it would be really interesting that information, because then what's to be fooled about, why end up spending money and introducing a state degree? What to harass children, when these excellent grades will not bring them any breakthrough at least not in the state service, and if we want to include the best in the public service, and that is simply necessary and necessary, then there is no other way, since it is not the custom of government and government as a good government simply such a clause and norm should be imperatively prescribed and only then will this all make sense. There have been some remarks concerning the debate on primary schooling. Similarly, an identical norm that suffers the same criticism because it is simply prescribed, but here is the proposer who did not find it appropriate to correct it, but simply left it prescribed, who was prevented from entering the teacher's ranks. So there is a whole series of behaviors, convictions for crimes of bribery, bullying, etc. Of course, for crimes against sexual freedom, sexual disorder, abandonment and child abuse. But the one who killed the child can freely get a job at school on the basis of Article 19. So, we have forgotten these things and surely it is not one of the biggest obstacles to committing a crime against the Republic of Croatia, but rather what concerns the individual, i.e. the protection of the child. It has already been warned, therefore, that we should follow the chronology of the Penal Code in order to avoid such even absurd things. Therefore, it is something that is absolutely necessary. There have also already been words here that the last trace of social relations and the elements declared in the Constitution has been abandoned. That we are a social state, and this is the case with no teacher, therefore, some consideration or scruples towards him may be fired, of course under these conditions of Article 23, as amended in Article 85, which is to this end, but certainly the social aspect should be taken into account, and so far it has been an obligation which, unfortunately, is abandoned by this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39561	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39562	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It's perfectly clear to me, in part, the reason for the urgency in which this law is referred to in the procedure. It is urgent to introduce a national prom in the next school year, therefore, that students who enroll first grade at the beginning of the school year do so according to new regulations. Unfortunately, in addition to the Declaration that state graduation is being introduced as a system in Croatia, there are no detailed explanations in there what will happen, how it will happen. All of this is left to some other sublegal regulations to edit. Anything else that happens in these amendments and additions to the Law and suggests that it should actually happen on no basis should go into an emergency procedure, but these are things that should be discussed in detail, especially as we discussed a similar system of organisation and school management in the adoption of the Fundamental Education Act. And there were many objections that the system needed to be concerned. For example, the promoter makes it quite clear, as well as the statement in the opening notes, that he intends to transfer more rights, more management rights, more ingenuity and more importance to the founder of the school, and take down practically part of the possibility of organising work at school, the possibility of organising school with the school itself and the school's organs. Accordingly, the school board is no longer elected by teachers of their representatives, not by their parents but by their representatives, and the founder, in this case it is the county, or the City of Zagreb when it comes to secondary schools, appoints all these people. Of course, it will be named according to the proposal of the Board of Teachers, as proposed by the Council of Parents, but those it considers to be fulfilling literally and obediently what the Founder is saying. So that's why some kind of school self-government's ingenuity is getting a lot of tears. As the promoter sees, it is also good in Article 6 of the amendments and additions in the way in which the school statutes are adopted. Therefore, the school's statutes are no longer to be confirmed by the founder, but the school's school board, i.e. the school's principal, is obliged to obtain prior consent to the statute. So first the boss will say how things should work, if that's good, then we can eventually at the school get to the point where we think about it. Speaking of this state graduation, of course we should commend the determination, in fact, the Minister and the Ministry of State to move on and that should have been done before. And it's a shame it wasn't done before, even if it's so declarative. Because if this step never goes away, if it keeps going on and on, we all know how our country works, it'll be delayed for decades. But when it comes to this, there are some elements that should be considered and which, I think, should be found in the Law. Is one thing that happens to kids who finish high school and fail to pass state high school? To expect it at least in these transitional years while the system is being stalked that such children will be, 10, 15, 20%, I don't know how many, but in any case they will be. What's going on with them? Would it be as in some countries the case, would it be opportunistic to offer them some other lower kind of exam that could round up their high school education, not get the right to direct enrolment in college because it would not still be a state graduation. Some countries have these solutions, I think it would be wise to think about it. On the other hand, there are different schools in Croatia. Of those who are not really on God knows what level to really elite schools that are among the best in Europe. As far as I know, only one in Croatia is involved in the system of international graduation... Perhaps the law should provide for the possibility and the obligation for certain types of schools to at least work to engage in this organization and to give their children the opportunity to attend international graduation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's how they place themselves in international colleges, not the channels of the Bolin process after enrolment in our colleges. And in this Law, the same formulation appears again, where you open a tender for the employment of teachers, and we know that there was the most manipulation and the most, so I can say freely, public scandals. The solution remains to be published only in the daily press. Not even a solution to be published in the daily press sold throughout the Republic of Croatia but in the daily press. We're as much an informed society as we are. High schools are, at least the ones I know of, all involved in some way in the information system, have their own websites or something like that, and I think it would be time to put in law the obligation to call the competition in the daily press and on the school's website. Or possibly the founder, if the school doesn't have its own website. As can be seen from all of this, these are all changes that are not to be made by an emergency procedure other than national graduation. As a result, I think it would be less harm to have this Law go into second reading, and possibly before school leave, in some other way to post the introduction of state prom in the fall, and to discuss these changes in peace with God at the beginning of the next school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39563	Thank you very much. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39564	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me briefly refer to these two discussions that have now been held. Dear Mrs. Antičević, you have opened a really very convenient question here for the participation of students, especially when it comes to evaluation. So I'd like to inform you that in May, we've been encouraged, but this time indeed, the students of the high school founded the national council of students of the Republic of Croatia, so both from primary and secondary schools per representative from each county and they've had two sessions so far, and the first question they've opened is exactly what you've said, it's a question of evaluation, or a revision of the regulation on evaluation. During this summer, it is our task to amend that rule to bring it and respect what the students say and that is their way of participating, and thank you very much for supporting it. Secondly, the question of state graduation is precisely what you say, so not to be taught because of the fives, because of the grades, but to learn because of the learning of knowledge, therefore the relationship between students and teachers will significantly change, of course the teacher will evaluate in all 4 classes and the student will have testimony about the completed each grade and will be respected in enrolment, one part of the grades from all classes and one part from the state graduation, otherwise, if it were just a state graduation, then the students would neglect all living and prepare themselves only for the state's graduation, that's for sure. But in this area when external evaluation comes, then teachers are forcefully interested in learning to have that knowledge and to successfully pass the state's graduation because that part must be their joint success. When it comes to trainees and just rewarding those who are extremely good, here if you want I can provide you with information about the received trainees, we have recently received 15 with the average grades they received, and if you want I will indeed deliver it to you. So we really did do that. Dear Representative Vujanović, I am obliged to respond if I have already said on several occasions that the information so far has actually been very much along with what we have on the Ministry's website when it comes to state graduation, about all the procedures we have had so far on all these preparations that have really been very extensive. I would like to remind you that these preparations started in 2003 and that we really did have a tremendous amount of activity through all this time and ultimately assessed that we were ready, so after all those necessary advances we approached this. I don't want to tell you now about how many meetings we had, with various groups of schools, with teaching schools, with other colleges, etc., and last year we sent them our national approach, so it went to every high school, it went to every university, and there was a questionnaire in which we got feedback very high-quality from them, which would be the best model, of course we appreciated, and after all that we brought actually a model and the same as we sent them, a national approach as well but we can't before when this high school decides that when they accept that the state prom is going to go from 2005, the 6th school year, then this brochure will be found otherwise before they can't, at the beginning of the school year on the bench, in front of all the teachers, and then they'll all actually be very well informed of what they have on the website. Furthermore, after that, when the law is passed, only afterwards can the minister adopt sublegal acts and one of them is the rule of state graduation, of course where everything will be defined and prepared already is. You suspect the founder will not accept the proposals of the Council of Parents, the suggestions of three teachers who come from school. I cannot believe that the competent authority of the City of Zagreb who is the founder will reject any proposals from any school that are coming. So I really don't doubt they'll accept those suggestions. You're asking what about those who don't take the state's prom, I'd ask you another question, and what about those who don't take the prom or the final exam now, and they'll take it in the second exam in August, they might pass it in January if they don't pass another time. So our system isn't such that it opens up the possibility if someone doesn't have a certificate of completion that they can do something about it. And in the end you are talking about competitions that competitions should also be published differently, so among other things you mention the website, so believe the Croatian Employment Service has a website and they publish all the competitions and can indeed be found there, however, there is one legal obligation that we have to respect but I am not sure that all those who want to get a job, especially those who are first hired to have such property that they have the equipment and that they can follow, they may be able to look at someone else for these reasons, so perhaps this would not be enough for this to go on the web alone. Although I admit that there may be manipulation in the daily press and that perhaps a better solution is to say which are in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia but this can also be very discussionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39565	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39566	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the laws are not adopted on the basis of an opinion, this might happen, and we should be safer about it, and as far as the state graduation is concerned, or students who don't graduate, the question was how to help children who don't do it because of lack of knowledge, it's not them, but someone else who wants to help those who still want to round up their education after high school and don't want to move on. So national prom wouldn't suit them. There is a great solution in some European countries that could be looked at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39567	A colleague of Vuljanic's. This is not a correction to the incorrect allegations, the secretary of state stated the Ministry's opinion, that there are no graduates in the system, you've semi-committed with it and expressed your point of view. Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39568	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would first of all like to go out with one assessment of the finding, it seems to me that the attempt to re-centralise the law, amendments and additions to the law on secondary education, is actually too high and unnecessary. And among other things, I think it will cause more problems in the implementation of this Law than the solutions that have been tied up so far. In this regard, as is known about the school board, which should be managed by school, about the principal, about working relationships, etc., and the Law on Institutions is applied as a rule, therefore the administrative procedure is applied, and therefore the administrative dispute is applied. Now, among other things, the administrative procedure would have to be applied, for example, in the course of the graduation, i.e. the final exam, and I do not understand how it is now that the Minister will prescribe the prom in the course of the administrative procedure when the administrative procedure should establish the legal rights, obligations and responsibilities of the subject, on the one hand, in this procedure, because he can complain, must seek appropriate solutions, etc. Second, for example, Article 48a. If the school board can be resolved by the Director on the proposal of the Educational Inspector, etc., it is therefore said if it is not resolved on the Inspector's proposal and the Minister assesses that the proposal is justified, be careful to assess the discretionary assessment. This is not an administrative procedure based on which he has established the elements and the fact that, at the request of the Director for discharge of the Director, it is justified, this is subjective. And that part simply shouldn't have happened because this situation will practically shed a bad light on this issue, regardless of what it did not want to achieve by law, but that's how the amendment and the addition is clumsyly formulated and so it seems. It is further called on to disband the school board in the same article, to appoint a committee according to the provisions of Article 51a. This law. And now that all of this is taken and watched all of a sudden you see that this commission will have three members of which at least one must be from the school's class. There's nothing to say about the other two members. The Founder will surely have at least one and whether the rights of parents are protected we do not know. Why don't the founder take his two. I believe here that if you are already going to a three-member committee, then all three categories of parents, employees and founders must be represented and that must be prescribed. So left to the Founder on discretion to decide who he's going to set up. And that's a situation that's not good. Third or fourth, my remark is tied to the position of employees. Simply, such a neoliberal approach as provided for in Article 85 and regarding Article 23 of this proposal is simply unacceptable. It cannot be treated this way with educational workers who, due to disease, loses or reduces their working ability and then says in the general transitional provision and the final part if the school does not have the right jobs or if the teacher refuses to accept the offer and in fact refuses for health reasons, his work contract will be cancelled and... conditioned by contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It couldn't have worked like that. There should be some repairs, though, as in the end, it is a sick person. All the provisions previously refer to a person who is ill or who has reduced working ability for psycho-physical health reasons. And I believe that this is really totally unacceptable as it is unacceptable again in the second segment to subsidize to secretaries where it is said that a secretary can be appointed as a person with a high or higher, at least as high as possible, but Article 26 also states the secretary of secondary school who, on the day of entry into force of this law, is found in working relation to indefinite time, etc. continue to perform even though it does not have a professional readiness. This means that, with medium professional training, I would like to remind myself that under the applicable law which is amended by amending and supplementing this law, he could not continue because it was prescribed there that the need for transitional and final provisions was given a time when he could pass. I think, however, if we already do, and I don't mind that even those who have been found with secondary expertise because it is a matter of people who have worked on the secretary's jobs for a long time, not as secretaries, have formally worn it, but really they haven't been able to perform it, but have been trained, given the opportunity to tell them that within two, four years, I don't know how much, they need to finish at least high school and that part of the education and training staff in secondary schools should provide the burden of school, if of course they can't find another suitable solution, or if no one should report to the competition. My fifth remark is about the entry into force of this law. I would like to remind myself that under the Constitution of the laws before its entry into force must be published in the National Journal and, exceptionally, in paragraph 3, it is stated in the Constitution of the law that at the earliest of the day of its publication, unless it is for particular justified reasons by a different law. Here it is proposed that the law enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal and, at the same time, the law on amendments and additions is not prescribed, which is why it should enter into force earlier without the vacatio legion of those eight days. What is trying to explain or make an argument about the emergency procedure that the start of the school year takes a change and a supplement, I would have to be more precise here, whether it's a school year or actually a school year entry. School year doesn't start with school year. The school year determines each school year the ministry or minister, and as far as I know, she should be honoring now about 3.9. or something like that if I calculated the date well according to weekends. September. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Hence, there is time and no reason for this provision to stand here with the date of entry, published in the National Journal. I think you should put that on the eighth day of the publication in the National Journal and in that context should fix it. So let me say it again. I think it is not good to put this degree of discretionary assessment to the ministry, it is also not good to leave it as well that the graduation is governed by the regulations and the way in which the graduation is laid down and maintained, it must be regulated by a different and stricter regulation because it is the rights and procedure for the exercise of the rights of respondents and interrogators and, in such a situation, the possibility of a second stage of the appeal procedure. We need to see who it is. Who can complain about a student who, for example, claims to be suspended from taking a prom, and vice versa. There is a very serious question of what to do in such a situation, especially when taking care of the fact that the administrative procedure is to be applied here. Of course, this is about the assessment of the resolution of the school board, then the school director, etc. This simply could not go, and in such a situation it would still have to be prescribed if we already wanted to give that the minister could evaluate in the administrative procedure what must then be prescribed by law, precisely determine the conditions which are considered to be when he is injured, which determines that there are reasons for his resolution. And of course, in addition to those general reasons, it should be pointed out at least taxively through a reference standard in which form the provisions are to be entered in the Statute that are deemed to have been met with the conditions for the discharge of the Director. Otherwise, there will be a great opportunity for discretionary treatment and inspectors here. In particular, when it is known to replace Article 46 of the new article even though this Article 46, in relation to the old article 46, paragraph 2 is exactly the same and paragraph 1 instead of "expert leader" had a "pedagogical leader". Now, watch out. The professional manager is a much broader concept than the pedagogical director and director now get also the function of didactics and pedagogics and of course educational functions at school compared to students but at the same time the management director. At the same time, the school is run by the school board, and that's where jurisdiction overlaps. It overlaps with competences, and it is possible to practically always construct the situation in the inspection findings to initiate the procedure for its resolution. And he has no objectively in accordance with this law the possibility to protect his right as it remains the possibility for the minister to assess that he was right in the inspector's inspection report and that he has initiated the procedure and should be resolved. And what remains of him according to this law. The second question is that he is left with a constitutional suit and everything else, but I think that these are all unnecessary procedures and that these issues should be developed a little bit, perhaps to postpone the vote next week, and to try to find appropriate solutions and then pass the law by then. Because I'm undermining again, the school year doesn't start until September, and there's time for the entry into force and the application of this law to begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39569	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39570	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Here, I have really carefully followed this debate on this law on secondary education and I would not like to repeat some of the things of formal and legal nature that have been said so far in the debate I would already like to remain on the subject of the introduction of state graduation as an important element in the further progress of the education system itself and the development of the education system itself. There has also been a lot of talk about whether the emergency procedure is justified or not and the fact is that the formal emergency procedure is today in the procedure but indeed the whole public has been preparing for years for the introduction of state graduation as an external standardized evaluation of four-year secondary education, and for this reason I think it's really time and it's good to finally start in this project. The political and professional decision to start with this project has already been made in the last term, and in fact it was a further basis for all further actions and various preparations and at the level of the Institute for Social Research in Zagreb which is at all implementing this scientific and development project of introducing state education into the Croatian school system. Then prepare at the level of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which will actually prepare and carry out the State Graduation Procedure, but also carry out other external education evaluation tasks. Then there is the Council of the Ministry of State Graduation in the very system that will also analyse and monitor the implementation of the projects. The introduction of both relevant expert groups and school committees is also planned, which actually shows that it is an extremely complex job that I really think that the preparations have been done quite correctly and that the whole system is actually at this point and ready to take place in the whole process and move on. It is really necessary to introduce the State Graduation into our high school system because we will finally gain insight into the general state of education in the Republic of Croatia, based on real or objective indicators obtained in standardised procedures. The first step is the national exams themselves, and followed by 2008 and 2009 respectively, and the introduction of a national graduation. I listed all of this for the reasons that I believe the Ministry needs today, but also to support the entire school system in conducting the state's graduation. I have listened carefully to all the elements that my colleagues have cited as possible negative influences and problems in the conduct of this process, but I believe that the problems and these shortcomings cannot be resolved in the debate itself, but that they will be able to begin to remove themselves at the moment when the whole, when it takes place in relation to the next school year until 2008 and 2009, when we will have the first results and I think it is simply not possible at the theoretical level of the debate to get to some problems, rather than that only the Ministry and the competent authorities will have to react at the moment when these problems occur and, of course, will follow the regulations and perhaps also some legislative regulation precisely solving such possible problems. Mr Vuljanić spoke extremely highly of this and I hope the Ministry will also think further in this direction. I would also point out in this debate that today when you ask children why they go to school that they in one indirect way very well know how to articulate the direct goal of education itself, which is to acquire knowledge and competence. They can say and say they go to school because one day they want to become teachers themselves. They want to become doctors, firemen, hairdressers and so on. Therefore, it is quite clear to our children why the school is going to school, but the question is, are we, like those who have completed our education process more or less, and even today we are in the position of the legislator, are we equally familiar with this ultimate goal or the need to actually acquire knowledge and competence by education and do we even know how to reach that goal? In particular, by discussing pedagogical standards, the introduction of state graduation, the Croatian National Education Standard, is the question of whether we have sufficiently consulted with all, with all associations of employers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Association of craftsmen and even with local self-government units, or with the academic community, and do we even know which way education should go? And that is precisely why today's students could one day equally learn the labour market and not only in Croatian but also in the European and world context. I point out this problem because we have already discussed the report in this year, the report of the National High Education Committee, and in the whole debate, it was the impression that Croatia does not actually know which way it must go in the economic and social direction at all, and that it is clear that if Croatia does not know this, if there is no national consensus on these issues that neither the education system can follow that path at all levels. And elementary school and high school and, of course, only higher education. And in fact, this report has shown that it is necessary to make one link so according to some national, national unity about what we actually want as a state and, of course, only the educational system within that whole, and can find its quality, quality place. And finally, here's the deal. I've heard a lot about what this law is, does it affect the autonomy of the school itself or the very school itself as a special administrative unit? Is there a violation of the founder's rights or is the founder's rights too much? I would say, in that sense, that as the founder himself, he really now has the opportunity to appoint all seven members of the school board, but I am convinced that he will not arbitration in the decision-making situation who will be members of the school board by the teaching board or, or representatives of the parents in the case of the city of Zagreb, we have a total of 106 primary schools, 11 art schools, 63 secondary schools and 12 dorms. We will specifically appoint 1344 members of the school board, and I don't know where we would be if we were to question the decisions of the school itself, who in the name of the teaching board or the representatives of the parents will be sitting on that school board. However, I could say that politics should not be involved either in the resolution or in the appointment of the directors themselves, but on the other hand that politics is very often expected to arbitration in some problematic situations, and that politics is, in fact, the founder in such a framework, this composition of the school board is powerless to react in an appropriate, appropriate manner. There are therefore many solutions, and I think that any solution should be given the opportunity to show whether it is adequate for our conditions and ultimately why not go and change such a solution if it has proved to be flawed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39571	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39572	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia sent before the Croatian Parliament to discuss and adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education with the final draft law. When such an important and unquestionably strategic law comes from the Croatian government it is initiated, it should in any case be a commendable initiative. Unfortunately, though, I fear that the situation in which the Croatian Parliament is present today is by no means the one that can be characterized by words of praise. Because, namely colleagues and colleagues, this law is addressed in an emergency procedure, and it certainly does not deserve it by its content and weight. Namely, the law we are discussing today is one of those laws which, in my opinion, needs to go through a normal procedure that would allow the inclusion of a wider public and scientific circle, and the possibility of implementing their opinions in the final draft of the law. I'm afraid that's not the case here. Based on a series of conversations I've had with high school professors and high school principals, I don't think they're sufficiently addressed to the matter of this law, and that their opinions and possible proposals have not been considered or adopted. In fact, one of the directors' proposals was to find an opportunity to enable them to return to the old workplace at the end of the principal's term of office. They are called for by the Labour Act and by rejecting this proposal we come up with a negative selection because not all candidates are in the same situation, risking a job that today in Croatia is really in uncertain conditions. There are several examples that directors lost their jobs at the end of the term of office and please tell me what kind of message we are sending this law and these provisions to all educators especially those of the younger and middle generation with interest, knowledge and ability to compete for the position of director, and at the same time loses job safety. This leads to the situation that the main candidate for directors is those who come from a pre-retired generation, because they lose nothing and risk nothing. Furthermore, in this law we are discussing just yesterday and today, colleagues and colleagues, June 30th and July 1st. There have been a lot of words about this in yesterday's and today's debates, but I want to repeat that today and yesterday throughout Croatia in all secondary schools is under way the application process for the enrollment that is due to take place early next week. As the main reason for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, the proponent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia himself cites the need for the adoption of the same law as from 29 June. Justifiably, the government believes that future high school students must know the conditions under which the programme is being entered and how their secondary school education will end. This is not possible by putting the Croatian Parliament in the timing for the adoption of this law. Moreover, I am afraid that it can also cause additional ambiguities in a large number of young people at a large life turning point when they have to make important decisions that will channel the course of their further education. I believe that neither they nor their parents deserve to find themselves in this situation especially because it was enough time for this law to be passed in time and for the public to be fully familiar with the changes and the news that he brings. Yesterday, on several occasions, the Secretary of State said on behalf of the promoters that we are trying to avoid the situation, a stressful situation that happens to young people at the end of high school and the start of high school education when they are exposed to major pressures and final and classification exams. So please be nice, isn't it precisely thanks to this late reference to the government's draft laws to the Parliament and to the many indiscretions that it has caused a stressful situation among our students in high school and their families? Is it not a stressful situation that, within two days, the process of enrolment in school starts at one time and ends under the second law? The greatest value of this law is, without a doubt, the introduction of a state graduation which was a lot of talk in this assembly and in which the SDP first started talking, and the past government began preparing for the introduction of state graduation. It is, in any case, something that should be supported, which I support, but I also appeal that as soon as possible this state's graduation is brought into line and that all the preconditions are created to bring it to life in the fullest sense, and not that, as already said by colleagues, it's just a sense to itself. If you remember about a year ago from the government, we heard a promise that the government's proposal for a pedagogical standard would arrive in front of MPs and MPs at the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. Until today, this has not happened, and the goal of introducing state graduation is, among other things, objective evaluation and evaluation of knowledge. How to implement this without a pedagogical standard and completely unequal conditions and opportunities in our schools. In the end, I would like to look at just one more detail in this law, and I have submitted an amendment to it. However, although the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education are in line with the recently adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education. I believe that this law should provide for the possibility for the school founder to disband the school board if the work of his work is not carried out in accordance with the law. The provisions of the Government's proposal provide for only the possibility of the founder to resolve a member of the school board if the Educational Inspector or the School Committee finds that he does not fulfil the obligations of a member of the school board established by law, by means of an act establishing or statute. In those provisions, the disbanding of the school board was given to the authority of the state administration, the Office of State Administration in the county. I believe the founder, so in this case these are the counties appointed by the school board must also have the possibility to disband him in case he does business contrary to the law, and the Office of State Administration should remain obliged to disband the school board only if the school founder does not do so. Finally, if, in order to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education, which we expect in early July or today, I am afraid it is necessary to provide for longer-term schools to comply with the provisions of the law, the appointment of a school board. Because I'm primarily saying this because in the summer period it's hard to expect schools to be able to prepare themselves, to carry out all of their obligations before them by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39573	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39574	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to article two or 22a. It seems to me that it includes students with developmental difficulties, so I would also look back on the existing law, or the applicable law. According to the current High School Law, education of students with developmental difficulties is organised with the application of individual procedures in regular and special class departments and educational groups. Students with greater developmental difficulties are educated in special organisations. The special organisations of their programmes, conditions and way of their work as well as the process of enrolment in education are prescribed by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Secondary school education is conducted in regular classrooms of regular school according to the standard program and with individual approach. The regular classes of school according to the tailored programme, with additional professional assistance in the special classes of regular school, shall be subject to the specific programme and to specific educational institutions according to the standard tailored and specific programme. The secondary school education of students with developmental difficulties in the Republic of Croatia is conducted in 14 special educational institutions and in special classrooms of 28 regular schools while they are relatively few included in regular classrooms of regular secondary schools. In Croatia, about 2 and a half thousand students were included in secondary school education, 620 of which were fully and 628 partially integrated, while 1200 students with major difficulties were included in special institutions intended for that degree of disability. The following educational programs are implemented in secondary schools for students with developmental difficulties. 4-year duration programmes, 3-year duration programmes for industry and the economy, 3-year duration for crafts, 3-year duration programmes, double system for carrying out tied crafts, a programme that lasts up to 2 years to acquire lower professional training, programmes with a 3-year duration to acquire lower professional training for students with development difficulties. Special institutions shall establish programmes for the acquisition of lower professional training and for the acquisition of medium professional training. However, the following problems have been identified during the implementation of the laws. The system of education and education of children with developmental difficulties is two ministries, namely the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. So the criteria for enrolling children in particularly educational institutions are often different. Teachers, teachers and teachers who work with children with developmental difficulties are rarely inadequately educated. There is insufficient number of professional school associates, and professional rehabilitation support outside the school is not satisfactory. Special institutions and are traditionally away from the place of permanent residence of children. Students integrated into regular classrooms of regular schools do not have the same rights as students who are educated in special classes of regular school and special educational institutions. Students who are educated in the system of science, education and sports do not have the same level of rights as students in social care institutions. Health and rehabilitation support and educated professional support for students in special and regular institutions of education and education are not at the same level. Equivalence of opportunities should be seen as a process during which social systems of service gradually become available to people with disabilities. The principle of equality of rights or equality points to the equal importance of the needs of each individual, i.e. that individual needs should be the starting point of planning at both local and national level. And that's where we get the problem. Most of our schools are not physically available to people with physical disabilities. For example, a textbook costs about 3,000 kunas to blind and undersighted students. So, I note that I am a student must obtain his textbooks. We can only assume how these students and their parents must cope with the market for textbooks, publishers, etc. Without any social support, left to the good will of the director. How to integrate children’s hearing, such as the Language High School or another non-professional school if a personal assistant rule has not yet been adopted, which means sign language interpreter in this case. For the time being, only the pilot projects, the integration of deaf and deaf students and high school programs with the help of a personal assistant. I note, therefore, that mostly deaf people have been placed only in vocational schools so far and have not been provided with a gymnastics program precisely because of the problem of translation. Students with developmental difficulties located in institutions get a low and very questionable level of knowledge. This is best seen in the course of the classed exams at the university. I'm interested in who will control, therefore, the teaching held in the centres, say the Dubrava Centre, the Slava Raskaj Centre, the Vinko Bek Center. What level of knowledge these disciples need to gain, will it be equal to other disciples. It seems to me, therefore, that unfortunately there will remain an unchanged profile of the profession offered to young people with disabilities. The shoemaker, tailor, braider, watchmaker, telephone player, etc., where they no longer have a chance on the labour market to find employment after finished high schools. And I think special attention should be put on this one, on the choice of professions. It seems to me that it's just a reflection of society towards people with disabilities because nothing is expected of them, unfortunately not even knowledge. Unfortunately, because of the disadjustment of the entire education system for people with disabilities, I have to be skeptical, although I am not by nature a skeptic, not at half-11, and as far as this new law is concerned, because it is not unfortunately respected or existing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39575	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Spaincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39576	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. While welcoming the amendments and additions of the Law on secondary education, I support the amendments and additions because I think they are good and will contribute to even better work in secondary schools, better quality implementation of the programme, encouraging teachers to an even better education and education of a very sensitive age group of our youth. This government makes a strong contribution to improving secondary education for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and especially for the area of special state concern, from which I come. In recent years, and especially in the past and this year, a lot of funds have been provided for restoration, the construction of a war of injured schools and sports halls. In these areas, significant changes occurred during and after the Homeland War and we must not forget that this is the area and that the population of the Republic of Croatia lives on it. Let us remember how history or literature was taught in these areas and where the university professors and professional associates who taught in high schools graduated. Surely, the deep trail of such professional teaching work remained on our generations now being renewed both spiritually and materially in areas of special state concern. The Ministry and the Government should pay attention to these areas, because unless quality programmes and care are implemented and taken care of both students and teachers, what we do not want will happen, and that is leaving, and not staying in those areas, and I am sure that this is not the goal of this government either. For these reasons, I propose to the Ministry of Education and Sports that, with already welcomed changes and complements, pay attention to housing care primarily to professors and professional associates. By providing housing, we will keep the young educational staff in the area. I will highlight the example of the elementary music school in Pakrac where 12 professors are and all 12 professors came from other parts of Croatia just because they had housing that had secured the city and where students of Pakrac and Lipika go to today, 170 of them. By applying a new article in 86, teachers over 65 years of age and 20 years of employment will have to retire, open up room for new employment. With all due respect to senior educators and my colleagues, I feel it is necessary to accept the proposed supplement because there are a lot of young teachers at employment offices. Certainly, the new time of information and lifestyle changes everything very quickly. I am free to propose to the Ministry that it might not be too bad to open special scholarships for deficit professorial professions. In Article 76, I support the proposal for a ban on the employment of all high school workers who are legally convicted of a criminal offence listed in the proposed article. I particularly welcome the amendments to Article 50 relating to the number and structure of the members of the school board and would suggest that those 3 members proposed by the teaching council should highlight their candidacy and attach a CV with a special reference to professional teaching work on the occasion of proposing a teaching council. These 3 members of the school board are particularly important because they come to the proposal of their colleagues and are the closest to the profession to decide who will be the headmaster and then follow his work. I welcome Article 22a, which organizes education in all secondary schools according to regular curricula using the method of work or according to tailored curricula developed by teachers in accordance with the skills of students. I propose that once a year in cities that are possible, given the number of schools, a mandatory director submit an informative report to the city and municipal councils so that local council members in these cities and municipalities know what is going on in a very important institution, and it is a secondary school. And finally, I want to propose something that is happening on the ground and that is very important for the future of young people, and it refers to time outside of school, unfortunately very few educational staff are involved in the work of sports clubs associations. I believe that the conditions should be considered and created that educational workers are obliged to participate in activities and programmes that will further contribute to better development and improvement of better youth status, and we know that they are left to cafes and streets. Of course, these programmes should also be approved and provided for certain material resources that would certainly be significantly less than the price we will have to pay in the future because our children will be left to us with these bad offers offered by the streets and the like. The result of these activities is a healthy nation and I think it is most important for all of us in the executive and legislative power and it is a moral obligation for us, and I want to point out once again that I support and accept the amendments and additions of the Law on secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39577	Thank you very much. Now we're going to a five-minute club debate. Dear Representative Marija Lugaric, SDP Representatives' Club please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39578	Dear Mr. President, age Secretary of State. At the end of this rather long debate, I would like to point out that what they were and have been advocacy at the beginning, which seems to me to be unanimous support for all MPs and representatives and clubs in this House on the introduction of state graduation on the one hand and a huge disagreement on procedures and amendments relating to the way members and members of the school boards are elected. In this regard, I would like to point out once again that for us in the SDP, we do not dispute in any way the right of the founders to participate in the management of the school in accordance with the responsibility of the material maintenance of the schools, we would like to point out that yet responsibility in what is the basic function of the school is that the achievement of the curricula and the programmes are nevertheless carried out by teachers and in that sense all those provisions that affect the level of professional autonomy of teachers, all those provisions that leave even the slightest doubt, and the provisions of this proposal leave room for doubt that they will be able to politicise the election of the school board members for us in the SDP are not acceptable. Furthermore, we reiterate the position that has already been stated several times, that in this proposal amendments and additions to the Law are very suspicious or at least questionable powers of educational inspectors, as well as the fact that I am amending Article 85. The law reduces the level of working and social security of teachers, which is unacceptable for us. At the end of this debate, we want to point out only one fact, it is doubtless a good project, it is a well-prepared project, we are particularly glad in the SDP that it continued really professional and scientificly, because we are from our club at the end of 2002 and we came to the initiative to introduce a state graduation, but we want to warn that a state graduation is not a magic wand that will solve school problems, it is a process of external evaluation that will point to all the weak points that exist today in the system. Based on this debate, the SDP Club proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw conclusions that would oblige the Government or the Ministry to propose, in accordance with the legal obligations, to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a pedagogical standard for primary and secondary education, the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries that does not have a pedagogical standard, and everything that is done in school is based on some ordinary law. In fact, the secretary of state more than 6 months ago promised that there was no need for us to reach such a conclusion, that the document in the Ministry exists, except that it is not in the Croatian Parliament and it seems unfair to bring today a regulation under which all students at the end of school will be questioned with the same tests, and that we did not provide them with at least the same conditions for learning during schooling. This debate has shown that the topics of education are important also shows the great interest of MPs, but it has shown something else, which is that the laws and changes in education that are a large area cannot be passed by emergency procedure, that it cannot go through such an accelerated procedure in the Assembly, it shows that we have almost 20 amendments to this proposal and amendments to the law, and in that sense another message to the Ministry that, in the future, really laws relating to education are given in normal procedure, so that all those interested in any way in this debate can participate and could have a really text that respects all those views, because education is a matter of importance and simply does not allow any political division. And finally, one perhaps appeal to Minister Primorac, he has not shown up for the past year at any debate here in the Croatian Parliament. We appreciate state secretaries, but it seems to us that it would be a good thing if we introduced strategically important things for school, perhaps to listen to the Minister at the Croatian Parliament sometime. Finally, the vote and the statement of MPs and representatives of the SDP on this Bill proposal will depend on how our amendments will go, with another emphasis that we fully support the amendment and addition of the law relating to the introduction of state graduation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39579	Thank you. HSP's respected representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39580	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. According to us at the HSP Club, this debate has highlighted a number of problems and concerns in the school system especially in this case about secondary schooling, and I will therefore, in the final word on behalf of the Club, look at three of the most important things. The first is our position, and as the debate also shows, the necessity of reviving the principle of knowledge of the profession, the success in schooling as a fundamental principle of stimulating youth for schooling and giving the benefit of the ticket to have an open door for active inclusion in all structures and pores of society. It's the most important thing that we have to do in the system and in the reform of education, and we have to go first and foremost from all of us here present. It's an old thing and it's common knowledge that we've been getting ministers whose first interest it was, that today we have state secretaries and assistants who can't be advisers, they couldn't be because they don't meet the conditions and I say we need to have this principle of expertise, knowledge and success in education affirmed and stimulated youth that this is a road map and a straight way and that we need to open the door and give them the benefits that the most capable enter the state administration, state government, public service and in all other pores, diplomacy, pores and society structures. I also have to say, regardless of the Secretary of State's efforts, that unfortunately the public is, despite all the explanations and everything else, still lacks full knowledge and projections of how this State's graduation will eventually look, what children expect, and in what way, mainly in the part of whether this success during schooling, in the classes, in some ways excellent success will be stimulated in order to ultimately have an impact on both the State's graduation and on all other things important and inclusion in society. In particular, nobody here said what was very interesting to us is that and the existing system of grading in school, there are a lot of problems about the evaluation rule, it's all some armetic environment, it's become all testimonial, every hour is conducted and a 5-minute test, and this, and that test, and it's forgotten that even in the evaluation system it's supposed to stimulate youth, it needs to stimulate children, and not create resistance to this subject, according to schooling, the problems are not touched and related to the director himself. It's not easy for the principals in high school today. On the one hand, they have teachers who have some big problems, pay, all other things on the other hand have students, and on the third hand they have parents. Thus, their position is also not fully defined or clear. As far as the competition is concerned, we stay with ours that the competition must be available. We know for a fact that there's been a lot of machinations in all of this. For example, you have an example that a competition to fill a professorial place in Zagreb is being held in the Voice of Istria or similar examples so that these things should be regulated if the contest in the press is in the area of that city that follows that press and does not mean in the Voice of Istria. We also know that there is manipulation for those who keep teaching for a certain time do not have professional training, that they are graduates or are at the conclusion of the university, then they are also maximized to make sure that no matter what the staff means that they have completed schooling is republished in this way. Therefore, all of this ultimately indicates that the ministry will have to prepare a new and full law on secondary education that will fix everything we have said today by saying to stimulate youth for education, work, knowledge, and not that the bad examples from practice are a guideline to them. This means that we have a minister whose first job it is, so we even had a Prime Minister to whom it is the first job, we have today state secretary and assistant. So, let's get out of the bad business, let's go, let's give the right examples of youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39581	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39582	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So here after today's debate allow me to say a few more minutes finals on this bill on behalf of the HSS Club. First of all, after the debate, it seems to me that certain legal solutions that have been proposed here should be further completed in a certain way and those things that are not sufficiently resolved to explain them to all of us. First of all, I think in Article 3. It is necessary to define first of all what are national exams and what is self-evaluation of schooling. I don't think those two concepts are unequal. It also raises the question of when these exams will be conducted, whether each year, from which cases and I think the less important question is who will conduct them. So it is important who prepares these exams, which will be examined questions, by which methodology, who will continue to present these results. We certainly support the adoption of these national exams but we do want it to be defined in a clearer way in some way. The school director shall also be defined as an expert head in Article 7. We at HSS would prefer to define the school director as a pedagogical head rather than as an expert head. Also in Article 10, the position of directors after the end of the term of office is unclear when he is not re-elected as he was in primary school. Also, in Article 11, when we talk about the term of office of members of the school board, it is also unclear and can happen in practice that if a school board member accidentally repeats a class that his term lasts for five years. We advocate a clearly defined duration of the term of office. If it's four years old, then four years, not when it's kids' schooling. Also, when we talk about school committees, I think it is necessary to say that they do not adopt acts but bring them in because they are still acts that need to be implemented further. As far as Article 17 is concerned and the national graduation for high school students and four-year vocational schools and art schools are concerned, this is an innovation in our education that we support but warn and that it is necessary to develop and carry out as well as possible professionally. There are also certain questions and doubts that arise after... that the minister will determine certain conditions, the way, the process of passing the prom, but this will be decided later by some other acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for us today, it remains unclear what a national graduation is and how it will be conducted and how it will be done. And I think article 17 needs to be better defined. Also, when we talk about the issue of unprofessional teaching, it should be defined differently in a different way. When we speak, these are mostly questions that we should define, we expect them to be there by the end of the session, i.e. until the vote to get rid of the amendments. And beyond that, what remains unresolved and these are the problems that continue to pressure high school. These are primarily the question of the network of schools which has shown itself in many places today irrational. We must also say that we do not have valid horizontal and vertical passing through the system, so there are more blind streets in front of the students and there are no clear visions and opportunities for progress. What I have stated in the debate is the integration of secondary education with the economy. For example, high school woods. I think that today is not enough and that we also need to discuss this problem more clearly and further define the criteria for the formation of a large number of specific vocational schools. Also,... dissatisfaction with registration policy, criteria and criteria for selecting candidates who rely exclusively on an assessment which is often not the clearest indicator but for now the only one that is relevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also not designed to prepare candidates who want to be directors, and it is not designed for the existing model director so that they can manage school more modern and better. In the end, I would have concluded. The existing laws should be harmonised and amended but Croatia needs full visions. Today it is clear to everyone that the choice of education is to choose society. We can't care whether our young ones succeed or not, as we can't care whether our teachers and teachers have decent working conditions and a worthy social position. On these specifics we encourage new quality steps in Croatian education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39583	Thank you. The National Minority Club is a respected representative of Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39584	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! The National Minority Representatives' Club will support this law. So, on that side, we made it very clear that we too are assessing that this is one of the most important laws this assembly of parliament will vote on. And I believe you will agree with me that there is practically no citizen of the Republic of Croatia who is not directly interested in the fate of this law. So, on that side, maybe no other law is so intriguing to all people of this country because just today and today and tomorrow and a whole series of coming years will make us see what's good and what's wrong with that law. On that side, I would warn, however, of some things that in high school, in primary school, are generally very little thinking, discussing, and it is things that can certainly generate general success but also failure. Kola Kovacevic mentioned the problem of grading in secondary schools, the problem of grading in general in primary school and what precedes the very act of schooling. I'm talking about kindergartens, etc. I think the way it's being evaluated today is essentially wrong. Not only is it wrong from the point of view of the profession, because today when we talk about grades in high school and elementary school and when we approach the conclusion of grades, the assessment is wrong. It is wrong, therefore, because the assessment is treated as a numerical variable, and the assessment of colleagues can be either a regular variable or a nominal variable. That means if we use preschool evaluation, then usually we use a descriptive expression model, does someone develop right or wrong? So we're using the descriptive evaluation model. On the other hand, on the other hand, we can express her and numerically, is the orderly variable. For those who may not be referred to what it's about, I'm going to say, a very good grade doesn't mean that someone knows twice as much as who got the grade. That's the problem. So we can't use the arithmetical environment, or if we're using it already, then we have to emphasize what assumptions we're going to use. Therefore, given the importance of this, I would ask the Ministry to pay more attention to the issue of high school evaluation than is the case today. I have to say, as a statisticist, I've tried to get it through to the Ministry of Education on several occasions. But you know many say, "My grandmother didn't know how to protect herself either, but it could have been a little better to drink." People are reluctant to get involved in some essential problems. And to conclude: by supporting this law, I warn of this detail and what is most instructive for us, the introduction of a state graduation process changes significantly. Nothing's going to be the way it was yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39585	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC LS's respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39586	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that it is actually good that this debate lasts this long from yesterday and today because it shows that we are aware of a subject where there really is no room for any party differences. It seems to me that these discussions were really good. However, the fact that this law should not be expected to solve all or a large part of the difficulties faced by high school is also a fact. One of these difficulties that needs to be considered and tried to find a solution is actually the production of young people’s staff or education, who immediately after these schools end up in employment services because their jobs are not needed in the economy. In addition to the school networks, the issues discussed by fellow Ledinski also need to be done to coordinate the production of personnel, the education of these young people with the needs of the economy because it seems easier to bring our education into line with the Bologna Declaration than the secondary school with the needs of the economy. I think it should also be openly admitted, openly said, and then try to set deadlines in which the problem would at least fall to a minimum. We support this law, among other things, because of the state's graduation, and it seems to me that consensus has been reached. Of course, it would be good if she had more strength or replaced and received exams, so would the students, and we parents would be relieved of the two stress that young people meet when they were 19 years old. It's a quality, quality value of knowledge. A school self-valuation process that will also create a real picture. I think there really is room for debate at local levels at the bar for the founders of these schools on the quality of schools after the self-valuation data of schools. Given that there is decentralisation, it would be interesting to see what their results are, and I also remind you of the proposal that I made yesterday, which was confirmed by the State Secretary, which is the possibility of lending and the World Bank, in order to at least bring the standard of secondary schools somewhat closer to the schools with which we are trying to compare. I'd like to say what we really consider to be of particular quality in this amendment to the law. This is except for the state graduation and the possibility of self-evaluation of schools and the possibility of education of students, can also say children with motor difficulties and chronic diseases in health institutions and in homes. It was a possibility that was only worth it, for primary schools. I really hope that this part will be implemented, and it will be high-quality. It is good that there is also a very precise definition of the quality planning of excursions and then the resolution of directors and the members of school boards as unpopular as it is, as well as the automatic retirement of 65 years of life and 20 years of internship. This automation is good, above all, because of the arrival of young teaching staff, but also because of the dare to tell the inability of a man to do the job with young people at 65 years of age. However, why do people stay and try or try to work under the existing law for even longer up to 65 years? Not only is this work possible, but here are colleagues who earn from the bench because of the extremely small pensions of these people. And these are people who are really educated not only for four years of college but who are educated from day to day, from school year to school year, and while we are already fighting for pensions, it might really be necessary to review the pensions of educators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39587	Thank you very much. And final review by State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39588	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me before the final review to refer only to a few more discussions or parts of your discussions. I will now briefly remind the respected Vice-President of Mr Arlovic's Croatian Parliament that I will transfer this to the Council of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the introduction of the state's graduation into the Croatian school system, which at one of its sessions asked whether the rule on state graduation or the law on the maintenance of graduations? Thank you very much. I'm going to pass this along and I'm guessing that the solution you're proposing would be much better because it opens up all the other possibilities that you've mentioned. Furthermore, when a respected representative, Pavicic, said that the project, that the project is being introduced into the Croatian school system by the Institute of Social Research. I must say here that this project is actually run by the Council of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the introduction of state graduation into the Croatian school system, that it has been accepted as a scientific project, and that the Council has actually been the roof authority that it has made recently since the appointment of the largest part of these preparations since of course counting, respecting everything that has been done since 2003 in the framework of this project that has been prepared. You mentioned the same thing about vocational schools. So I have already said that, for these very reasons, that we have certain jobs to do before and prepare the vocational education for the state's graduation, that all who enroll four-year vocational arts schools will count on them to take the state's graduation from the year they enroll in 2006/07. So it will take one year later and 2009/2010, respectively. School years. You asked if we'd consult anyone. I already replied yesterday that we will consult all partners, all the major systems that are directed to the education system and that are very interested, that they too will be involved in making the best solutions. I dare say that this will happen for the first time now, that we will do business with all our partners because these 527 occupations we have are really too many occupations, a number of professions are completely out of date, some occupations need to be modernised, and when we get to that, it will be fair that when they enroll in the first class of these programs, that they are in these programs and they are in the state prom. Dear MPs Škulić you have a little problem with our proposal for an amendment. I fully agree with you, and it would be really wonderful if we could from one time provide all the conditions we need to provide for the people we talk about. But believe me, this is a step, and we're going to try to make it as good as possible, so any shift is better than if there's no step, and if we don't do anything about it. Of course, there are also major obligations of school, so just as you are now saying that every school has no elevator and that it is impossible for all students who have such difficulties to get into school normally. But believe that in many schools they go with such projects, to ask the ministry and its founders and in some other ways and to solve these problems. I thank you for actually sensitizing the public and for those responsible who can help solve these problems and I believe that these problems will be solved but of course they won't be as quick as we would like. Thank you very much for making all these suggestions. I hope that many will welcome it and that everything you said will be possible to implement, but mostly by the founders, of course the ministry as much as possible, or as many laws allow. Furthermore, speaking on behalf of clubs at the end of this debate, it was mentioned that we should adopt a pedagogical standard. Of course, it was a good thing we brought it five years ago to the Croatian Parliament. I'm just here to point out that when it comes to school equipment that this will not be left to the case, and that's exactly what we've been telling about the preparations so far were and what preparations are coming next. Therefore, it is the national exams at the level of the years and the obligation of all schools to use the results of national exams for the process of self-evaluation of schools that will actually detect a number of problems between other and equipment problems. Founders were invited, the ministry was called, and, of course, this loan fund was also called to level the equipment of schools. Furthermore, the issue of evaluation has been mentioned many times. I mentioned earlier that we are working on amending the rules and therefore, honourable representative Tanković, since we are in this business, since we already have proposals from the Educational Office, that we already have proposals from the National Council of Students I invite you if you want to join in and give your contribution to this you will be welcome in any case with your solutions. A question of national exams and self-evaluation of schools has been asked. So national exams have been conducted since next year. National exams will be conducted from the Croatian language, foreign language, mathematics and later in IT. So these national exams for us will actually be very important. They will also be feedback to school and will therefore be obliged to use the results of national exams that will be conducted equally secretly to improve school work, i.e. to raise the quality of education. The school's self-valuation process will be prescribed by the minister. The project of self-valuation of schools is currently being completed, and as a pilot, the project operates in the Primorje-Gorski County. Thus, as I have said, many problems will be detected, return to school, and the school will take steps to raise the level so that both are actually referred to each other or in a direct relationship. You mentioned a network of schools among other things. You know the founders need to propose a network of schools. All founders have not yet proposed a network of schools even though the obligation was already in 2001. However, another question has been raised here. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mrs. Adlesic has raised a question and something we call a network of programmes. So the question is whether the programmes that we have in certain counties are adequate, or whether we are in that part rational and how much this is really addressed to the needs of the economy. You are lucky that one program, one association in the Bjelovar-Belova County, is in progress and will be completed by 31 August which will actually detect how much education is in the function of providing the necessary personnel for the labour market in your environment. In the framework of the "Cards 2002" this will also expand, so we will have a picture in fact in the entire Republic of Croatia. I would like to thank you, most sincerely, all those who have participated in this debate and who have contributed to your proposals and amendments to make the most of the text and to get to the best possible solutions. I hope that all these questions thanks to this and your contribution, therefore, to excursions and excursions and classes at home, empowerment of founders, the work of school boards, the election and resolution of directors, public authorities, the question of who can't work at school, competitions instead of previous advertisements, supplementary classes, lecturers or their status when coming from abroad, professional exams, retirements, that we will take a step there, that we will still get better solutions and ultimately that we will be able to open up this decision by you today to introduce a state prom and that in four years we have the first generation to take the state's prom. Just by making this decision today, we will be able to send what has been done on the Council of the Project except that we have published on the web pages a brochure at the beginning of the school year before each student, with each teacher and at that moment much more intensively begins to actually inform about each segment that will apply to them and which will be important to them. Believe that all the preparations that should have been made that we have made them very well and that all this that is ahead of us that we will do much better and that there will be no failures, that there is no reason for any fear that we will not do anything right. Let me say that of course we use the experiences of other countries and try not to repeat their mistakes precisely for that reason we have had the opportunity to hear from Slovenian neighbours. They didn't have national exams, they didn't have the self-evaluation process of schools, and they say it's extremely good that we're going to do it, that we're going to avoid all the mistakes they've made. In the end, thank you very much. I invite you on behalf of the Proposer to accept these amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39589	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education, emergency procedure, first and second reading, bill number 312. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have a plate of amendments. I ask Secretary of State Jelimir Janjic to declare his amendments. Under the 1st Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39591	The articles in the original text of the Law and its amendments and amendments referred to in the introductory sentence of Article 1 in the consolidated text of the Law on secondary education are amended and the articles are amended in such a way that the amendments and additions to the consolidated text of the Law on secondary education cannot be determined by which article of the Law on secondary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39592	Mr. Secretary of State, we don't understand anything. Mr. Secretary of State, slowly, you have an amendment to the Legislative Committee, say whether or not you accept it, with a brief explanation of the reasons in any version if you do not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39593	We do not accept this amendment to the Legislative Committee for the reasons I have stated. Therefore, since amendments and additions to the Law must refer to the original text rather than to the consolidated text, we believe that this is the way to stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39594	The Legislative Committee, the President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39595	Mr. President, now in short communication, I've come to understand what this is all about, namely, this is not the first time we've seen it, and so far we've had the practice of treating this as not as constitutional legal but as a nomotechnical issue. We continue to believe that if all the basic text of the law is stated, all changes and complements that there is no interference in these amendments are also listed in the National paper in which the consolidated text is published. But as this question may be resolved during the final text editorial before the publication, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39596	Thank you. Amendment One withdrawn. 2. Representatives of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39597	It is not accepted, organisation and mode of work, the teaching process and other activities of teachers in secondary and primary schools are important from the organisation and mode of work of higher schools, and therefore we do not think that the provision in question should be extended in accordance with the amendment. It refers to Article 9 amending Article 48 of the Law. Taking into account the character of the public service as well as the constitutional provision that each citizen has the right to be admitted to public service, a public tender shall be imposed as the only procedure that precedes the conclusion of the labour contract and shall ensure transparency and accessibility of the public service of all interested parties who meet the duly established conditions. The publication of advertising through the local competent employment office as currently prescribed by the Law on secondary education is not only a restriction on the availability of all interested entities but also a controversial procedure, especially after the amendments to the Employment Act, as the law on secondary education is now laid down, it is not only a restriction, hence the availability of all interested entities but also a disputed procedure, especially after the amendments to the employment law which have been deleted from the employer's obligation to report the needs of workers to the institution and there is no consistent way of publishing the needs of the institutions, bulletins, advertising board and others. School newspapers are not in an accessible wider circle of stakeholders and the Internet in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately used only 290% of the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39598	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39599	Mr. Secretary of State, this amendment has two parts, it seems to me right to extend the provision that experience in educational and educational work other than primary and secondary education also includes high school work, I think it can only do so well to secondary schools themselves, the more we redefine the role or the task of directors where we said that it is no longer a pedagogical executive but a person who needs to have managerial tendencies. Secondly, around this second part of the amendment, I do not dispute the public tender in any way, I am not just suggesting that with your proposal that the competition be announced in the daily press and the number of places where this competition should be published simply so that all interested people can see that a tender for a job has been opened to reduce the possibilities of manipulation. And quite by the way, the Internet is used... more than twenty percent of the population and I don't think it can be an apology and one and the other provisions are really improving the text that promotes and transparency and can make and qualitative improvements... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39600	Please vote. Who is this amendment number two that the government does not accept? Please come in. We can vote. The result? 32 for, 4 abstentions, 63 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 3. IDS representative club amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39601	This amendment shall be published in the Official Journal of the European The government doesn't accept. In fact, the possibility of the founder's influence on the Director's resolution has already been ensured by Article 11. The final bill prescribed that all members of the school board should appoint a founder, two independently and others on the proposal of workers, schools and councils of parents. And Article 12 is prescribed that the founder is obliged to relieve a member of the school board who does not fulfil his obligations under the law establishing or statutes of the school. In addition, the authority of the Educational Inspectorate to propose a resolution of the Director shall be indisputable and dissuasive as referred to in Article 19. The Law on Educational Inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39602	IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39603	Well, I wouldn't agree with Mr. Secretary, as much as possible because the school board can not resolve the principal and then should give it to the founder, as well, to propose to the minister who would then give a positive opinion and then to resolve the director as well. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39604	Please vote for this amendment. Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. The result? 21 for, 15 abstentions, 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fourth representative of Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39605	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39606	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39607	It's unacceptable. The text of Article 50(2) of the final draft law wishes to highlight the importance of the founders in making the final decision on the appointment of members of the school board in order for the members of the school board to be directly responsible to the founder rather than to the stakeholders who propose them. As the founder of the appointment takes place on a proposal from the school workers and a proposal from the parent council in practice, the appointment of members of the school board in a significant majority of cases will be carried out in accordance with the proposal. However, in cases where the proposal is not potentially acceptable, the founder will be able to make the necessary adjustments or request a new proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39608	IDS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39609	Well, em is reduced from nine members to seven members of the school council and, of course, three from the class of teachers and professional associates, two from the parents' order and only two from the founder's line. We suggested that it be a different ratio, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39610	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 19 for, 11 abstentions, 69 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 6th Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39611	It's unacceptable. The interpretation is the same as for the previous amendment, as it relates to the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39612	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39613	Mr. Secretary of State, I would ask you to give an explanation for this amendment of mine, given that it is two different topics. I'm not suggesting here as a colleague of Pesic-Bukovac no different proportion. Besides, you haven't explained why you're refusing my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39614	Okay. Give it to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39615	The proposal to amend and supplement Article 11 suggests that the school board has seven members, to appoint them as the founder on a proposal from the Board of Parents and Workers of the School of Teachers. So, we stay on it. It was added here to be a secret vote. They can handle it with the school's statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39616	Representative Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39617	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry that you haven't read my amendment because what I propose is simply a difference in the fact that the school board no longer appoints politics but that teachers choose their own representatives, that parents choose their own representatives and that politics choose their own representatives. On the contrary, you suggest that politics be chosen by the entire school board, so also representatives of teachers and representatives of parents. I think it's a blow to the autonomy of the school and to the lifting of the hard-earned and now very minimal professional status of a teacher. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39618	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 30 for, 4 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7. MP Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39619	It is not disputed that, by virtue of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, a representative body shall make a decision on the appointment. I therefore accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39620	The amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. 8. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39621	It's unacceptable. This is an amendment to Article 12. The provision of Article 12 of the final draft law seeks to ensure effective protection of general interest. It is undeniable that the secondary school is a public institution and it is also an undeniable right of the central state to intervene in cases of frequent serious violations of the law and in accordance with the provisions of Article 66. The law on institutions is intended to ensure an effective way of sanctioning illegal behaviour of the body manages in schools and the irresponsibility of the Founder who oversees that body has the possibility of taking certain actions before it is necessary to involve the central state, and this educational inspection is also uncontested and persuasive from a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39622	Here's the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39623	So this is the only way to explain it is for the Office of State Administration to disband the school board if it's not followed by the law. I can understand it to be a supervisor, and you also can't take away the right of founder that it also suggests that you can disband the school board if it doesn't act by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39624	To vote, please. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. Score. 24 for, 6 abstentions, 64 against, did not get the required majority. 9. Representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39625	The government does not accept the argument is the same as in the previous article, since it applies to the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39626	Representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39627	So I ask you to make this amendment known, given that the founder, so we accepted the founder's representative body, has the right, that we should have the right to disband the school board, if he has the right and to establish it, or choose it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39628	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. There's a vote to vote on. We can vote. Score. 29 for, five abstentions, 61 against, he didn't get the required majority. Amendment 10. of the same agent Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39629	The reason why this amendment is not accepted is because it is related to the previous amendment and this proposed change is actually about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39630	I, for the same reason, ask the vote again because the authority of the founder should be in my opinion can disband that body which he founded.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39631	To vote, let's get involved. Can we vote? The result? 27 for, 6 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11. The IDS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39632	She's not taking it. Since the job of the secretary is important for the functioning of the secondary school primarily because he performs the tasks carried out in the school on the basis of public authority, and jobs are not prescribed anywhere in accordance with Article 53. The Act on Institutions Subsidiaryly applicable to the obligation to regulate this matter by special law by the Statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39633	IDS agent club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39634	Here we propose Article 13 to be deleted because business secretaries do not see any reason to be set up by the Statu and established because neither in other institutions of culture, health, social care is the practice of determining a business secretary by the Statute. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39635	Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? Can we vote sorry? The result? 23 for five abstentions, 71 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 12th representative of Peter Selem?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39636	Mr. President, I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39637	Amendment 12 has been withdrawn. 13th Representative Franja Arapovic, Petra Selem and representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39638	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39639	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 14th Representative Maria Lugaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39640	She's not taking it. Amendment number 13 was adopted containing this proposed statement and I would say in a rather precise way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39641	Comrade Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39642	I agree with Mr. Secretary of State, and I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39643	Amendment 13, 14th withdrawn. Amendment 15. Also representing Maria Lugaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39644	She's not taking it. For the first part of the amendment relating to Articles 79 and 2 of the statement of reasons was given for Amendment No 2 and for the amendment relating to paragraph 3, paragraph 1 of that Article is not accepted because inserting a decimal place in the proposed text would change the meaning given by the applicant in that provision, but also has an amendment that better regulates this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39645	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39646	Dear Mr Secretary of State if you will accept this amendment, which follows from this amendment, then in this case I withdraw this second part of the amendment, but I ask that votes on the first part of the amendment be voted on in order to allow the competition to be advertised on the job except in the daily newspaper, should be published in the school newspapers or on the school’s website and founders in order to achieve greater transparency and so that all interested people can know that the job is advertised and to reduce manipulation. I therefore request a vote in the first part of the amendment. I'm pulling the second part.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39647	So we vote on the first part of the amendment. Please, let's get on with it. Who is the first part of the amendment of representative Marija Lugaric? Let's get on with it. Can we vote? The result? 30 for, 3 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Part two of the amendment withdrawn. The 16th Amendment of the Representative of Mary Byte?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39648	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39649	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 17. The HDZ counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39650	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39651	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 18th Representative Maria Lugaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39652	She's not taking it. The existing provisions of the Law on secondary education and amendments tabled in the final draft of the law are in line with the provisions of the Labour Act, and the obligation of the school is that the worker who is professionally incompetent to work must be deployed to another appropriate workplace according to his remaining work capacity is inexecutable in practice. In view of the existing jobs at the school established by the Employment Names Regulation and the Coefficients of the Complicability of Public Service Jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39653	Representative Marija Luagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39654	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I don't think it's a good idea for us as a Croatian Parliament to declare a provision for people who are incapable of working on the road. The Republic of Croatia is a social state and I think that the solution that has been in the Law so far is much better to ensure the social and labour safety of people. I know that in practice sometimes it's very common or questionable, but in any case it's a much better solution than apriority or trying to throw people on the road. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39655	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 27 for, 5 abstentions, 71 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 19th Representative of Peter Selem?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39656	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39657	It becomes an integral part of the Law. The 20th Representative of Frana Piplovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39658	It is accepted but subject to a change in the order of articles since a new article is added so that instead of 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 they become Articles 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39659	Representative Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39660	It's okay. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39661	It's consensual. Amendment 20 becomes an integral part of the Law with this second numbering. 21. The amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39662	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39663	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 22nd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39664	She's not taking it. We keep it more appropriate to set a shorter deadline for the harmonisation of the Statute and a longer deadline for the appointment of members of the school board because the adoption of the Statute precedes the appointment of members of the school board. It is therefore accepted to extend the deadline and paragraph 1 of Article 29 to 90 days and the time limit and paragraph 2 of that Article to 120 days. Those are the amendments that follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39665	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39666	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39667	Amendment 22 withdrawn. The 23rd Amendment of Representative Peter Selem?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39668	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39669	Accepted. It becomes an integral part of the Law, to amend the 21st. 24th Representative Frana Piplovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39670	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39671	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes for, 16 abstentions and 13 against, this Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We have another one, two suggestions. The first is the proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose a pedagogical standard to the Croatian Parliament within 3 months in accordance with the provisions of Article 11. The Law on Fundamental Education, the National Journal number and that and the provisions of Article 86. The law on secondary education, the National Journal 69/2003. cleared text. Secretary of State, please show off on this proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39672	The government does not accept this conclusion because we do not have a proposal for the text of the pedagogical standard for the whole system. At this point, we only have one piece. The moment we're ready for the second part of course we'll be ready for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39673	On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39674	Mr. Secretary of State, you said six months ago when you voted on the same conclusion that there was no need to make, by voting this conclusion because you had all the documents ready and that you would have plenty of them in the early hours before we ask you to send them here to the Croatian Parliament. Today, we voted that the state's graduation would take place, and I don't think it's right that at the end of school all the kids... at the same time ensure the same conditions for learning. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Croatia is also the only one, one of the few countries if not the only one in Europe that has no pedagogical... I am indeed asking my colleagues and colleagues to support this conclusion, given that it was unanimously expressed by all MPs and MPs on the occasion of this debate and debate over the National Test Centre as well as on committees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39675	Give me what you're throwing! The vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 32 for, 3 abstentions, 70 against. The conclusion was not received by the majority, the proposal for a conclusion. We have another proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS, which reads. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to refer the proposal for a law on secondary education within 6 months to the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39676	The government does not accept this conclusion. This time we have made the necessary amendments to the Law on secondary education, and it has been appointed the Committee that works on the Law on Schoolship from which the laws on individual systems and the moment we are ready for this roof law would then follow the other laws. I can't guarantee that it will be within this time limit as it suggests.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39677	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39678	We reached a conclusion 20 days ago when we adopted the Law on Fundamental Education, the Croatian Parliament concluded that, it obliged the Government to propose this Law on Fundamental Education within 6 months. Since these two laws are naturally related to each other, these changes are almost identical except for national graduations. It makes sense that if we're going to have an elementary school law here in six months, we have a high school law. This should also be the natural interest of the applicant. If we want these two laws to be interlinked, consistent, then it's logical to consider them at the same time. This is how it was supposed to be with these two laws, not that they have shown up in succession with more or less the same changes in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the proposal for our conclusion is very logical. Of course, the vote will decide what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-30-0.u39679	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 34 for four abstentions, 66 against. The proposal for a conclusion did not receive the required majority. Next item is 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Gas Market, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 313; The Proposer of the Law is the Government. We have accepted the application of the emergency procedure, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by committees on legislation, economy, development and renewal. You received the reports at the session. I ask the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Vladimir Vrankovic to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
