ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37092	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's a brief explanation. The need to amend this Law on Administrative Taxes has appeared for several reasons, one of the reasons was the change in the jurisdiction of the collection of administrative fees because the amendment of the Road Safety Act laid down the powers of the implementation of the road safety measures laid down in the Road Safety Act was transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of the Interior, and several new institutes which had not existed so far have been introduced by that same Law on Road Safety. It is also one of the reasons for changing the prices of the tourist licence, which were established by the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, namely that the price of the tourist licence in Croatia is significantly higher than the price of such a tourist permit in the Republic of Slovenia. It is 45 kuna in Croatia, and in Slovenia it is 12.45 kuna in that value in tolars, so it is also proposed to abolish an administrative fee of 20 kuna so that it remains only a form of tourist permit of 25 kuna, which is practically material costs. Since there has been a change of jurisdiction between the ministries responsible for the payment of administrative fees, certain erasures have also been made due to this harmonisation, given that so far there have been a lot of changes in the law on administrative fees, it has been proposed that the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, to establish and issue a consolidated text of the Law on Administrative Taxes. Therefore, once again the basic reasons for this amendment to the Law on Administrative Taxes were the adoption of a new road safety law that introduced some new institutes, i.e. there was a change of jurisdiction between the ministries, and an attempt to bring the price of tourist licences in the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia into line, so that these tourist permits, due to the great tourist traffic between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, would be harmonised. We propose the adoption of the Law by emergency procedure because we have certain deadlines under the Road Safety Act and also because of the arrival of the tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37093	Thank you very much for the two notices. The chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Slavko Linic, scheduled a meeting of the Committee for today at 10 o'clock at the Josipa Jelačić Hall. And the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, Florian Boras, scheduled a meeting of the Committee on Legislatives for 10 hours at the "Stepan Radic" hall today. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37094	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, there are a whole series of arguments and reasons to point out that it is necessary to amend and supplement the Law on Administrative Taxes, and in this context consider the possibility of a whole series of administrative fees actually being reduced. The fact is that it is becoming harder and harder to live in the Republic of Croatia, and that citizens in such a segment are becoming harder and harder to allocate the necessary money for different services and activities for their needs, as well as for relations with state bodies. What is particularly interesting is that this amendment and the addition of the Law did not take into account, however, something that is unusual happened, that this little one, called a small one and an amendment, is trying to open the debate several times, and I am going to set a special example, which points out that, in fact, it increases the citizens to meet certain needs or related to entrepreneurship and innu activity. For example, in Article 65 of Regulation (EC) No 655/2009, Article 17, among other things under point 6, reads "The issue and extension of the importance of the driver's licence has so far been 100 kuna". Dear colleagues and colleagues here we now get that the authorisation of an authorised interrogator, in a 1000 kuna car school, and for issuing permits, control of the technical correctness of the vehicle 500 kuna, for issuing authorisation for conducting the technical examination operations, etc., 3000 kuna. for the approval of the safety management of vehicles in auto-schools of 4000 kuna, for the approval of the implementation of the safe driving programme, tolls, safe driving etc., 5000 kuna etc. This part of the amendment of the Law is due to the amendment and addition of the Road Safety Act. I don't know if the proposer took care of the fact that all these costs will be broken at the price of the driver's exam. I don't know if we're even discussing the fact that the need for a driving test and training of citizens for driving, and for a safe ride in the Republic of Croatia is as important as in the world today, that it is one of the civilization's achievements and that in such a situation it should practically be, if not a mandatory electoral object in secondary schools in which young generations arrive and open up to them the possibility that everyone can master the completed 18 years of knowledge and skills needed for the management of motor vehicles because, in modern communication and the provision of transport services and transport of persons and things, a practical car has become a necessary need. If all of this stays the way we suggested here, then questions are asked how much will be the price of one training for a driver of personal vehicles. I fear it will far exceed the price of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues do not seem to be an example of how to fill the state budget with administrative fees and only take care of it, not to take care of the needs of citizens. And this is certainly one example that suggests that once again we should consider, of course we should have a whole series of indicators that point to how much the cost of implementing the safe driving programme, tolls, safe driving etc., that is, when more is given to the fact that this safety-driving programme related to the specific areas where these facilities should take place, is not yet built in the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go. In such a situation, it is really a question of what to do with such a high fee, because the real calculator elements are not available, and for this reason we in the SDP warn that these solutions are not good, that they are practically arbitrary, are not founded and that they significantly, significantly collect one activity that is necessary and of general interest. The second question we also want to discuss is, in fact, the basic cause and cause of the issue of amending this law, which is the issue of issuing or the price of the fee relating to tourist permits in the Contracting States and where the Republic of Croatia must now reduce its tourist tax to the level paid by the Republic of Slovenia. And that's good. But I would like to remind everyone that there is a Constitution with us and the Constitution in which Article 14 states that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms and that I am now not quoting in paragraph 2 that everyone is equal before the law. We now extend a fee based on the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on border traffic and cooperation to all citizens and not only to citizens in the border area, and in such a situation the question is raised, and in fact why we should not do so with all neighbours, and besides with all other citizens who come or use tourist permits in the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that this issue should be considered further, so that we do not have any objections in international relations tomorrow, which is why, for example, one country is favored and others are not. Because here it is not a question of relations as a whole but of a border agreement, but based on it, this fee is actually being abolished for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And I remind you again that according to our constitution, everyone before the law is equal. Therefore, with this point of view, all other users of tourist services should be evened out, and in this respect, however small the amendment and the addition of the law is, in fact, very, very serious and mainly related to the prices offered in Article 3 where I remind again that in tariff rule 65, for example, in paragraph 6, only for safe driving instructors was the permit so far 100 kuna and that it is now a thousand kuna and of course for issuing and performing technical examination tasks of three thousand, for the approval of the safe driving programme. Now, here's the whole program. They're not instructors, though. That's where five thousand kunas are paid. And again, I remind the instructor is up until now to get the status of instructor he must pay everything he can. I think that this solution is not a good solution, and we of the SDP Representatives Club think that, even if the emergency procedure is to be abolished on this bill, we should consider once again, in a substantive sense, this price and calculate this price and actually present it to the Parliament to see what goes into the price of, say, a five thousand kuna safe-driving programme. Let's see what that might be so that we can possibly support this solution or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37095	Thank you. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37096	Thank you very much. Here, I just need to comment on just a few allegations of honourable representative Arlovic. In fact, in order to avoid dilemmas and doubts, this proposal does not bring any additional burden to the citizens. Namely, these administrative fees that you have commented and which are in relatively high amounts relate to car schools, test centres and other participants who conduct or train in car schools or later check knowledge and additional training in car schools. I must say that we have tracked and analyzed the state of transport, and it is certainly clear from the media that in a large number of victims or persons who are most often killed in traffic are just young people. It is doubtless also that other reasons that have led to this very great loss of youth in traffic are what they learn in car schools and how they are trained in car schools. It is certainly one of the very important factors that contributes to such a large number or high participation of young drivers who often suffer death and suffer with very severe consequences. The introduction of these fees is precisely an attempt to introduce order in this area so that both car schools and these schools for the implementation of the security driving programme in centres are really qualified and that the requirements for granting approval would indeed be submitted by only those car schools or natural and legal persons capable of meeting these conditions. In fact, we now have over 550 car schools in Croatia, which is a very large number of 100,000 people when compared to the number of car schools per 100,000 inhabitants in other countries. We believe that the activity of car schools is an activity of particular social interest precisely because they train later participants in transport. In recent years, Croatia has been by the number of deaths per 100,000 people in a very high place compared to other European countries, and this is only one of the measures that has been trying to fully introduce order in all activities that should contribute to improving the traffic safety situation on roads, especially to one acceptable number of eight to ten killed per 100,000 inhabitants, which in some European countries, while unfortunately we are still somewhere around 14 people killed per hundred thousand. So, I repeat these administrative fees won't burden the citizens, they won't burden the students of the car school. These administrative fees are prescribed for car schools or those organisations that will implement the safe driving programme in the centres of safe driving. And another thing, too, we all remember together over the past few years that there's been a real war between car schools because there's been such a large number of car schools, I say over 550. Due to the very great competition, training prices under the economic account were also often conducted, which certainly leads to under-quality training in car schools. I repeat again, this amendment to the Law on Administrative Taxes relating to the activities of the Road Safety Act is primarily proposed in the interest of improving the teaching in auto-schools, in the interest of a truly quality check of knowledge in the centres of safe driving so that, with other measures to be carried out, the number of dead traffic participants who will be less than that which, according to all indicators, is very high. Otherwise, I agree that there may also be a need for a regular debate, not an emergency procedure, so that all participants can express their views on this. And I'm saying, I think it's very important to say that it won't lead to additional burden on the citizens or the students of the car schools and those who go to the test centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37097	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37098	Mr. President, I was particularly pleased that the Proposer is ready to accept going to first reading rather than to an emergency procedure so that the other participants can plead on this issue. But let me correct the incorrect assumption. Incorrect quote, I didn't say it would burden the students of the car school directly but indirectly. These prices to be paid in the form of fees relating to instructors, related to the training of safe driving, etc. the calculation elements that will enter the price of the driver's examination and the fact that, at the same time with that price, they will not achieve the safety and quality of the educational process in the training of knowledge and skills but the quality of the instructors and the persons who will do so. Therefore, it would be far more important for us to get the programmes that the Ministry of Interior prepares for instructors, for all those who must participate in the process of training new drivers to see if these programs guarantee the quality and safety of training drivers rather than the price. The price must be the result of all this, and therefore I said that this is an indirect burden for future drivers who, I'm sure the vast majority of youngsters will not be able to pay even their family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37099	Thank you. The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37100	Thank you, Mr. President. In this second part, a colleague, Arlovic, has already corrected the incorrect assumption, therefore, that these relatively high prices are not an opinion but rather an incorrect indication by Mr. Secretary of State, saying that these relatively high prices, whether they are to issue approvals for the performance of the technical examination of the vehicle, therefore, from the auto school and for the implementation of the safety driving programme to the centres are so relatively high, and then order should be introduced in the car schools and that they will contribute to the safety of traffic on the roads. It really doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any causal connection to you, and it's simply incorrect. Someone is exactly what counterpart Arlovic said, they should be used, Mr. Buconic, to educate the educators. So whoever pays more, automatically and quality better, that's a really weird logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37101	And the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37102	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Secretary of State. This Article 3 reads that in heading 13 paragraphs 5 and 6 they change, and then they are now to issue approvals for the implementation of the safety driving programme... Safe rides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now this fee of 5 thousand kuna for the issue of car safety management approval in brackets (safe driving school) is now 4000 kuna. Then, for the authorisation to carry out the technical examination of the vehicle and the authorisation to train candidates for drivers and enrolment in the register of auto school is 3 thousand kuna, to issue the authorisation of an authorised interrogator is 1000 kuna, with those 65 spoken by Mr Arlovic. For issuing licences, controls and technical correctness of the vehicle 500 kuna, etc. However, instead of us dealing with these administrative fees, and all the basis for amending the traffic safety laws on roads since 20 August 2004. We might be far smarter to open up a debate about those absurd 0.0 proms. The law is again pushed to the end of the agenda, which is harmful, unnatural, politically harmful to all of us individually and to government. The IDS as a party that has submitted a request to amend the law protest what is now being discussed in administrative fees instead of initiatives that are more than a year old, or almost a year old. Gentlemen, the season is coming and this provision, this Croatia damages, the hosts are looking for an amendment because it also harms them, the excise duties are falling, which will say that it is only some revenue of growth from penalties but it is in the total amount of the state budget negligible and which further irritates all of us who can find ourselves in this situation. Unfortunately, as Mr Buconjic noted, 100 thousand inhabitants still have Croatia in a very high place when they were killed on Wednesday, which will say that we have no fewer deaths or almost no fewer deaths, and on the other hand we are increasing fees, which is an acronism parexelans. So, IDS is against this law, we're looking for a European law when road safety is on Wednesdays. A Croatian citizen must have the right to a glass of wine or a small beer and one who drinks a glass of beer or wine, is neither drunk nor kamikaze on the road, nor mad behind the wheel. And for the last time, we're taking the opportunity to protest this law. First, the Law on 0,5 prominences and then we go according to the amendments to the Law on Taxes. But not in a way that increases them. As for the fee, fees for tourist permits, this should be welcomed, however, Mr Arlovic noted well that the increase of these amounts will indirectly transfer instructors to those who will be in charge of the drivers. So surely, in some small, perhaps insignificant part, it will affect the overall standard of our citizens. So for the end, first of all, the amendment to the Road Safety Act regarding the unnecessary, harmful, absurd 0.0 prominence norms, and then we can discuss clearly the Law on Administrative Taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37103	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37104	Thank you, Mr. President. As we hear from Mr. Secretary of State, the reason for the adoption of this Act is the implementation of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia because for the same thing, the administrative fee in Slovenia is 12 kuna and so far there has been 45 kuna. And despite the reduction here proposed by this law, we are unable to cut it to that price because only our costs, the production costs of that list, the paper is 25 kuna, these are the costs of administration, it's that famous fast top shop, or whatever it's called. That's the truth! So, I appreciate... I appreciate the theaters, but the towers here just don't fall anymore, they're too short and can't hide the real truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the coalition government, Mr. Secretary of State, you are constantly on your cell phone and the entire government functions by mobile phones are reduced administrative fees and judicial fees by 50%, but this has not damaged the state budget because the state budget at the time has just been disbursed by citizens and their fees but has been charged more than now, even though you have struck all charges, reduced various privileges, even the financial police. So our incompetence is best seen in what you said yourself, with all the cuts we are not able to reduce one piece of paper what Slovenians can to 25 kuna, to 12 kuna, but to 25 kuna. You say that the reason is also the amendment of this Law on Administrative Taxes and the adoption of a new Law on Road Safety. There is indeed too much to say anything other than what our colleague Arlović said on behalf of the Club. Therefore, there is no saying that there will be an increase in the safety of traffic by such impositions, but that will again be spilled at the very cost of costing exactly those direct recipients of services, i.e.. Citizens. Therefore, this has been an extraordinary opportunity for you to see in this Law what has nothing to do with traffic safety, even if those funds were intended for education of educators, it would make any sense but to hit them with the same load as you intended to fill the state budget really doesn't make sense. In fact, it shows one general incompetence of the state authorities and the danger that the holes in the state budget are large and should be filled in. You also said that, and that is true, the amendments to the law on administrative fees also imposes the need precisely because of the change in jurisdiction between the ministries after a year and a half are re-suspended that is what should be resolved in a particular law because there has been a change in the jurisdiction of the ministries. If you remember, it's been a long time since the beginning of 2004. For the term of office of one government, it's really too far and it's inadmissible and it seems that's exactly what's going to go through this whole term. So that would give me a paper which, where, in which the Ministry belongs, but it best tells me about the efficiency of the government. But the government seems to be the only one that's effective in the accusations that she's meant for the citizens. And remember once again, you're back on your cell phone during the coalition government. The administrative fees were reduced by 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37105	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, so I use this opportunity when changes in heading 11 occur where point 3 is deleted we propose that me and one group of parliamentary deputies intervene in point 6. And this means for the approval to hold and carry hunting and sports weapons and ammunition during their stay in the Republic of Croatia where so far there have been 300 kuna we suggest that this be taken down to 100. For us neighbouring countries, Member States of the European Union have prescribed administrative fees for granting authorisation at the border crossing for authorisation for the transfer of arms and ammunition through their national territories. For the purpose of issuing authorisation for the holding and carrying of hunting and sports weapons and ammunition during their stay in those countries, amounting to EUR 10. The Republic of Croatia prescribed the administrative fee with 300 kuna. Serbia-Montenegro is also at a level of EUR 10. Bosnia and Herzegovina shall not charge at all an administrative fee when granting those authorisations. There is no need for the administrative fees in question for the Republic of Croatia to be significantly more than the average amounts in the countries of our environment. In addition to the great dissatisfaction of foreign hunters and athletes, the present rate of taxes is the opposite of the expected results, i.e. the budget is significantly lower than the present inflow of funds. Additional adverse consequences are reflected in hunting tourism with a foreign clientele, especially when it comes to permanent guests who come to the Republic of Croatia multiple times over the year. In addition, our hunting associations without the arrival of foreign guests mean no hunting tourism in which we all swear they are unable to pay the fees that are prescribed for their concession or lease. So I hope, Mr. Secretary of State, that when the conditions for voting are met, you will accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37107	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37108	Thank you very much. I personally believe that it is not wise to take off the gun charges for a simple reason because I think that when it comes to all Croatian tourism and so hunting tourism, we must focus not on a large number of guests but on quality guests. I don't need to remind you before I don't know how many years we've had in hunting tourism when for little money Italians come here, they're killing all over their breeding flocks, and so on and so on. And otherwise, I don't think it would be good, so it wouldn't be good if we took our fees off for a simple reason because I think we'd get better quality and better guests. So if we have a burden with these taxes from our own citizens, let's say, in this story about the auto-school and the safety drive, and why not have for foreign hunters who are probably both more likely and more likely to bear that burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37109	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37110	Well, I didn't think a kind of clientele would come from people with less money and more shooting in Croatia. We, on the very basis of hunting, mean how much is the price of a deer, how much is the price of a deer, or don't know what it means, we can prescribe, and what's going on, I don't think we're going to cut it. Neighbouring countries have, Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't even have that fee. The countries of the European Union have at the border of EUR 10, and this is also about the shooting alliance means people who are only engaged in sports and not just hunters. So I don't believe that by taking 300 kunas on the border we're going to contribute to our coming richer guests. I think richer guests can only come to us if we have the content of hunting tourism. So if we have quality accommodation, if we have a quality hunting ground, game and people who will... So you don't take the money just at the border but allow in hunting tourism to take far more than you do today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37111	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37112	Thank you very much. Here is the first apology of Ms. Antičević-Marinović for her cell phone, however, I did not expect that the administrative fees would lead to a debate on road safety, so I was on my phone just to get the information here which I would now give you because I considered you needed an answer. I say since, although it's not a topic, the theme of road safety. I think I made myself clear when I said that this increase in fees will not in itself lead to an increase in security. This is one of a series of measures that the Ministry of the Interior prescribes and will prescribe and take to reduce the number of fatalities and the number of people seriously and easily injured in transport and to reduce at all these enormous damages both in human lives and in human suffering, as well as material damage to transport. So I think that's where it should be made clear. This is just one of the measures that we are sure will contribute together with other measures to the introduction of more order and there will be less fatal and less material damage, severely and easily injured. Otherwise, just to comment that these amendments to the law were bad, that they didn't happen, there was no change for the better. In 2003, a total of 701 people were killed while under this bad law, as you say last year, 608 people were killed. 93 people died less. The road safety law has certainly contributed with all those measures being implemented to reduce the number of fatalities. I say again it's not just due to the law. This is due to several other comprehensive measures being implemented. It's just for the sake of knowing that this year, in the first four months of May or mid-May, 28 fewer people were killed compared to last year, which is 13%. We also have 25% less total injuries in car accidents. We have 14% less severely injured and we have 27% less injured, and the total number of traffic accidents in this period compared to the same period last year is 40% reduction. I think these figures speak for themselves although people have never been or will be figures. Every fatal loss in traffic is certainly a tragedy for his family, but also for the entire social community, and especially those material damages that are measured in hundreds of millions of kunas. Just one more piece of information for you. 580 schools, two and a half thousand instructors currently operate in Croatia. There are between 50 and 60 thousand candidates each year. These are the data that speak about this auto-school activity. So these administrative fees are not absolutely directed against the participants, but we expect that they, along with other measures, will contribute to the introduction of more order into this socially important activity because we do not consider that it can be the sole and exclusive activity of a car school only commercially, since it is trained by people for later motor vehicle management, and we ourselves are witnessing what is happening in our traffic. And I repeat again I think it is still difficult to dispute this data that last year the number of deaths was 93 people less than in 2003, and that this trend and a smaller number of traffic accidents and the reduction of the number of fatalities, severely and easily injured in this year, is the same significant reduction compared to last year. I repeat the goal of the Ministry of the Interior is to bring the number of people killed, by the number of people seriously and easily injured and by the number of traffic accidents close to the countries of the European Union, to come to below 10 people killed in transport compared to 100,000 people, which is a European standard. In 2003, we inherited a rising trend, a very high number of fatalities. We have managed to reduce it and these measures together with all the others that we are preparing and which are already being implemented we will continue to make a significant reduction, because we believe that this is an interest of the entire social community. Thank you very much, and I accept that the law goes to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37113	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37114	Mr. Secretary of State reiterates his incorrect claim, of course now it's something to ease, that this, that these fees are just one of the measures that have contributed to traffic safety which is incorrect and I will no longer repeat it, because there is no logical connection to you. It's the opposite, though. This means that only the richer ones who can buy expensive vehicles, who can buy and be in more expensive schools eat that they can do or are thrown out by such consequences. But let's put it aside. You have now commended here again the effects of the Road Safety Act, mentioning that it was reduced compared to 2003 by the number of deaths from 700 and I don't know what number to 608. Certainly for 93 lives. However, you should know that the highway was built in Croatia and that just the highway contributed to traffic safety, not your dragon sentences, and the number of deaths when you see who was killed and who were involved in the procedure, then you will see that they were not those who had up to 0.5 alcohol spills in the blood, but 0.0 had or far above one breakthrough. Therefore, the effect of your law is indeed 0.0, as in many other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37115	The law passed by the Parliament is not theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37116	Well, who suggested it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37117	Yeah. Honorable representative of Shima Lucin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37118	Thank you very much. In fact, what my colleague Ingrid said was that 300km of highways, if you look at the analysis of traffic accidents and the deaths, you'll see that on the highways and on these relations, the county and the cities that gravitate the highways are falling rapidly. At the same time, you will see that in Zagreb and some other areas, road mortality is growing, but what I wanted to say is that the following fact is that the price, whether it is a tax or some other kind of death, always comes to an end at the end of the user. You remember the secretary of state well, and you know it, so when we went with the national road safety program, so this prevention, and when the insurance houses, they raised the premium to 1% when it was agreed to pay off the funds, so to the fund. So, we can say what we want, but the school car, the instructors, but whoever, eventually, will go over the price to whoever goes to school, and I'm not really sure that's actually going to give effect in this direction that you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37119	Thank you. And the third correction by the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37120	Well, I would like to correct the assumption that the law will achieve the goal of making the number of road casualties equal to that of Europe. The number of road deaths will be the same as in Europe at the time the roads will be as they are in Europe. So, by construction and by maintenance. We are far from the maintenance standards, but we are still far from the amount of roads, kilometers of roads, so both types of roads and road standards in Croatia compared to the European Union, and this will be the biggest contribution to increasing road safety, and the law is just something that prevents or affects it, but not as much as the road itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37121	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for this law is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions shall be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 74 votes for, five abstentions, 24 against. The proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37124	Your Honor, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. Here, before you is the Hunting Act, first reading. Let me say a few words about this law. The adoption of the proposed law does not change the basic settings of the now applicable Hunting Act, but is complemented, elaborated, or added new ones as a consequence of the changes that took place since 1994. The proposed laws and sublegal acts resulting from it would improve the relations of hunting, game use and bring them closer to the way they are regulated in the hunting legislation of modern states, starting with the principle of conservation of nature in order to preserve the protection of game and its natural habitats as national wealth, but with their economic significance and relation to other activities relevant to the economy of the Republic of Croatia. This is meant by agriculture, forestry, tourism, trade and more. In the period since 1994, in accordance with the provisions of the Hunting Act, they have been established on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and on the remaining areas of common hunting grounds. In total, more than 1050 hunting sites, 320 state and 730 joint and for these hunting grounds are determined by hunting tenants or concessionaries. Contracts on lease or concession have been concluded and hunting grounds have been developed for all hunting grounds and are managed in accordance with them by hunting sites. Out of the total number of these hunting grounds that I said, the association masters with 70%, and all other legal and physical persons with 30% hunting ground. There is an entrepreneurial spirit and some of our hunting grounds can side by side with the best organized hunting grounds of our neighboring countries. But there are hunting grounds in which there is still a lot to be invested, especially financial resources. Basic issues to be settled by this law. The Law on the Construction and Part-Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, "The National Journal" No. 199/03 and 30/04 are prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy performs inspection tasks relating to hunting, and that inspection of the implementation of the Hunting Law will be carried out again by hunting inspection. The laws of the European Union shall be harmonised. The right to hunt comes from property rights on land, which belongs to the owner, i.e. the landowner and the other legal or natural person who acquires it and makes it according to the provisions of the proposed lease, is referred to as concessions of the law, the concessions of the lease. The right of owners, i.e. land and water owners to compensation for restrictions subject to the exercise of hunting rights. Extending the contract on the lease of hunting rights and changing the contractual relationship of the lease of the right to hunt in concessions of the right to hunt. The Croatian Hunting Union is given public authority and this would be the following: it organises and conducts hunting exams, tests for the catch of the guardians and assessors of the game trophies, makes a hunting badge and a card, keeps a central hunting record, it has not been until now, owes and detachs stamps to mark large game. The funds collected from concessions and leases would be allocated by the proposal of this law as follows. 25% of the funding for landowners without hunting rights is relative to the area covered by the hunting grounds for which rent is paid through the budget of the units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb and in the area where the hunting ground is established. 25% goes into the budget. 10% of the funds to the special account of the ministry of law enforcement. 5% of the funds at the expense of the county and the City of Zagreb for the implementation of the law and 35% of the funds on the special account of the Croatian Hunting Union for the promotion and development of hunting. These funds, which will be placed on a special account, will finance: demining the hunting grounds, promoting productive indigenous game, hunting tourism, marking large game, buying top-of-the-line game trophies, hunting development and promotion programmes, monitoring the situation of the game population, insurance of game damages of at least 20% of the insurance premium, hunting records and scientific research. The rules on the allocation of these funds will be passed by the minister, and the Croatian Hunting Union is obliged to deliver to the ministry on the agreement of the funding plan for next year as well as the spending report for the past year. The hunting lease period for large game management is thought of as a deer, extends to at least 20 years. The lease of state and common hunting grounds goes through public tenders, which regulates the rights and obligations... The method of achieving hunting rights in the hunting zone means the implementation of a hunting economic base, i.e. the game breeding programme as well as the game protection programme on the surfaces where the hunting grounds cannot be established. [[You don't understand.]] The savages for whom national management plans are adopted are managed according to these plans, and this is meant by the bear for which the management plan has been adopted, and for the common deer and the diocese is in the works. Measures to prevent the damage caused by the game, which is obliged to take the poacher and landowner, responsibility for the damage committed by the savage and as damage to the savage. Implementation of inspection control. These legal solutions will make it more effective to implement the law, to collect knowledge of its conduct through hunting inspection. Preserving and protecting savages and its natural habitats is a priority task. Getting a top trophy of game crowns is an effort to invest game growing in the hunting grounds, and by combining one and the other we can be side by side with European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37125	Thank you. The Agriculture and Forestry Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Tourism Committee? The President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 18th session of the Committee held on 18 May 2005, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on hunting, first reading, submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 5 May. The tourism committee considered this proposal for a law on the basis of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body, especially in the part as regards the strategy of Croatian tourism and development programmes in tourism, of particular importance for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The opening statement on the reasons for which the new Hunting Act is proposed by reason of individual solutions was submitted by Mr Robert Laginja, Assistant Minister, on behalf of the promoter. In the general debate on the reasons and needs of the adoption of the new Hunting Act, particularly in the light of the provisions of Article 1 of the proposed law governing the management of hunting grounds and jobs having an economic, tourist and recreational function and the role of protecting the biological and ecological balance of game and wild flora and fauna, the Tourism Committee supported it. In the discussion of the particulars and text of the proposed law, the Committee expressed the following general views and proposals. That the concept, content and concept of a tourist product in hunting tourism still needs to be created and formed in order to be recognizable with the growing demands of consumer and most demanding market groups. Secondly, if no programme has been developed so far or a project that would define a tourism product in hunting tourism, clarify and separate the problem associated with performing in catering and tourism activities and with hunting as an economic activity. Third, that the lack of a development concept and a complex common product of tourism, hunting and forestry has resulted in a lagging of this form of tourism, its marginalisation but also a certain mess that exists in this area. Fourthly, in the text of the proposal for a hunting law referred to in Article 69(2), a hunting tourism contract is mentioned, but it does not show which parties are forming those contracts, which are the elements of that contract and who are overseeing the execution of the contract. In addition, Article 69(3) should be more clearly defined, as it is not acceptable for a foreign citizen to hunt in the Republic of Croatia only with a written call from the poachers. From all ahead, it comes from the existing and proposed regulations that should regulate hunting tourism is no closer to the definition of hunting tourism. This should take into account the complexity of this selective form of tourism consisting of two special parts, catering and tourism, i.e. accommodation, nutrition, intervention in sales and hunting, i.e. by organising and implementing hunting. There is also a number of thinking that hunting tourism should be viewed as an economic activity that should not be dealt with as non-profit organisations. All this suggests that in this significant form of selective tourism, hunting tourism should reach agreement and harmony between the entrepreneurial part of jobs and the realistic interests within hunting societies. In the area of hunting, it is necessary to simplify the way in which services are provided, in hunting, by uniting controls and by issuing certificates. On the basis of the debate, the Committee decided to support the proposal for this law in its first reading, with the following conclusions: First, to adopt the proposal for a law on hunting. Secondly, all objections and proposals from the debate shall be referred to the applicant for the purpose of drawing up a final draft law. Thirdly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit within six months a strategy, concept and programme for the development of hunting tourism in the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37127	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Mato Šimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37128	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike the existing Hunting Act and the draft law withdrawn from the procedure, this bill is in line with the Constitution and laws directly or indirectly related to hunting. This law gives hunting a significantly broad dimension so that on the farming, protection and use of game, other than economic giving and tourist, recreational and sports importance, normatively arranged hunting arrangements are equal to the hunting legislation of most European countries that are competitive in our hunting tourism market. In order to understand this law, we should look back on the history of hunting in Croatia, the state of our hunting ground, the environment and development possibilities are important for this activity for the overall development of our tourism and connecting activities. Hunting on the world and European market takes a significant place and, if we want to be competitive, we need to improve it properly. Our hunting lacks game and hunting infrastructure, which is the result of the invasions in the Homeland War. He lacks promiscuity, ethics, customs and social understanding because since the golden time of our hunt, it's been a long time. All these components are covered by this law and I will briefly look back at the more significant. The law first and foremost provides support to the authorities who manage well in a way that allows them long-term management, order on the market, strict surveillance and support in the management of the hunting grounds. The Hunting Law also adopts all European principles from the international advice on game hunting, breeding and protection, the confirmed International Convention and the world standards on nature protection, the protection and conservation of game and habitats, the conservation of biological balance. The implementation of this law requires well-teamed services particularly inspectional but also public understanding because the regional hunting system, which has been applied for more than 60 years, is still rooted to confirm a number of problems that have made hunting management more difficult for the past ten years and will be present for a long time. In this context, it should be pointed out that hunting can no longer be a social category or even when it comes to sports, recreation, or game meat as a grocery. Today, hunting management in the hunting tourism market requires high standards so that only those hunters who are professional, who can invest in the hunting grounds as much as the hunting grounds require and as much as they require legal regulations. Hunting law, Nature Protection Act, Veterinary Act, Environmental Protection Act and other relevant laws. Therefore, only a well-ordered and rich hunting ground can carry financial burdens of hunting management and can be competitive on our foreign market. What role and importance can hunt in tourism best illustrate the fact that foreigners first encounter with our country have in hunting tourism after which they, their families and acquaintances come for vacations for years. And the fact that summer tourism lasts for about two months, and hunting all year long. About the importance of hunting is best talked about hunting in Istria County, which so far best capitalise hunting management through hunting tourism and whose hunters have no high price. Unfortunately, in other parts of our country, especially in the coast and islands where hunting tourism can replace summer tourism, hunting is not so developed. So we will give this Law the proper support to individual solutions. Under this Law, basic problems must be solved because hunting in our country can and should take a significant place in tourism and economy. Therefore, our hunts should first be returned to what they had before the Homeland War, demining hunting sites, solving poaching, revolating hunting sites with proper game funds, regulating them with hunting infrastructure, and then improving them according to our capabilities and needs. Under this proposal, the law removes all obstacles and difficulties that have made it difficult to develop and improve hunting so far. The new legal solution aims to introduce more order in hunting, starting with the management of hunting sites, in breeding and protecting in hunting and traffic with game, parts and use of hunting weapons. It wants to encourage hunting tourism, revive hunting customs and tradition, strengthen hunting ethics and more effectively involve hunters and their associations in development and in improving hunting as important economic branches of our country. Since the Croatian Hunting Union has a significant role to play in all of this, it is given certain public powers. The allocation of funds for the promotion of hunting, implementation, training of hunters, the implementation of measures and the breeding of game protection in non-rent hunting sites, the issue of a hunting badge and identity cards, the keeping of central hunting records, and the borrowing and deleveraging of marks for the marking of large game. For the successful implementation of this Law, it is of particular importance that the law is subject to the powers of inspection. They also have special importance in supporting the adoption of this Law to help the development of hunting more quickly. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37129	Thank you very much. SDP club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37130	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This renewed version, let's just say, of the Hunting Act is really, technically, something better than it was before. However, there are still a number of logical errors, I would even say, nomotechnical errors and dilemmas concerning the purpose of certain provisions and constitutionality. What's this about? Let's take it in a row. The fundamental question that exists for me about the Hunting Law is the constitutionality of the provision under which your private land, the administrative body, practically without your participation in the procedure, can declare a hunting ground and give you a 30-year concession for a third year, and that you don't actually have an effective defense of it. So that's one form of cloaked expropriation, I'd almost say, which I don't think has room in this way, no matter what it might be like so far. But I'm afraid that's hard to defend from the point of view of constitutionality. Furthermore, now that you've already been taken from your land and turned into a hunting ground and given to a third in a lease, let's say, or given in a concession, the fee paid does not go to you. It only goes at 25%. Most of the money, it is said, the Croatian Hunting Union has been given a lot of authority, but a lot of money and that of your money, your land. What's going on is we're going to get further to this distribution, what does it have to do with justice and the protection of private property that is in this country the constitutional sanctity, I'd say. I think that, if not in this place, it will certainly be debated at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Of those definitions and concepts of this Law, which are mildly unusual and for which a man wonders what they are for, one must begin with Article 2 where definitions are given which I fear may not make much sense. If it is said that the hunting ground itself is the hunting ground, it is now described, which, according to this Law, could not be established its own hunting ground, then it is very difficult for a man to understand what the nearest breed is, what is the differentiation of specifics to get the definition of our own hunting ground. In one word, it would be that own hunting ground that cannot be established as its own hunting ground. Then there are some illogicalities, which is that you can only give the concession for 30 years, from 30 years of age, as stated in Article 2(6), and the lease can only be from 10 to 20 hunting years. Now, what about the time between 20 and 30? Is there any reason why you couldn't, for example, give it to 25? I don't know, maybe there's a reason, but I don't see him. Then the definition of the owner of the hunting grounds is very interesting. The owner of the hunting grounds is the owner of land that has acquired the right to establish its own hunting grounds. The owner of the hunting grounds is the owner of the property regardless of whether anyone else has the right to hunt on that land and whether he is a concessionaire or perhaps a tenant, a tenant. Furthermore, it has the definition of game growing, so it is said to be good, between 100,000 and 2,000 hectares, according to its own land. Whose own? Does this mean that, that the farm cannot be in that area declared a hunting ground, or is it leased or concessioned? If so, then I don't see the logic of that. Furthermore, there is now one set of provisions, the same provision in Article 11(5), the last sentence, that the breeding grounds of game can only be established for land owners. If you want to blow up the hunt and take care of the game, then when you've already given someone a hunting ground, I don't see why they wouldn't be allowed to grow game and some very specific logic in it. Furthermore, there are a number of provisions where, I say, and which are simply an attack on private property. You have in Article 14(3) of the provision that says: if within the surface, etc., there are enclaves of less than a thousand hectares, watch out, a thousand hectares. Or half an enclave of less than 500 hectares of other ownership, and the surfaces will be covered by their own hunting ground unless their owner intends to land. So it's just almost ex-lege if you're good at reading a provision like this. Your thousand acres drown in someone else's hunting grounds. Then he says, it's very interesting that the provision of Article 16(4). There is a privileged giving of the hunting ground, but which I generally support, but I don't think it's well done. Namely, the Ministry is said to be able to entrust the right to hunt directly with the Croatian Forest Trade Society, ok. And then he says, to the Faculty of Forestry, to the Veterinary College and to the Faculty of Agronomics, with the payment of the payment of the money's rights that can't be less than 50%. My first remark is, of course, that this provision does not follow the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education that speaks of the university in the first row as a titler, that's one story. And secondly, I think the university, so these colleges, is not being given a hunting ground for hunting. They are then given if they will carry out certain teaching, science, education activities, but if so, then I think that the state could give it to its public educational institutions without compensation, not 50% of the markets. So it's a matter of political assessment, but I think it would be appropriate, therefore, to reduce the method of use by the university to tie it up for scientific educational purposes, but to give up this 50% at least when it comes to the university. It is interesting and it is an interesting mechanism which seems to me to be almost the owner of the land virtually impossible to take over hunting on all the land where someone else has the right to hunt. It may therefore submit a request pursuant to Article 17(2) by 1 February at the latest in the year of expiry of the contract for or 6 months before the first lease. Which I don't know how he can know when the first lease is going to be. And secondly, I think that the provisions under which a concessionary, i.e. a tenant, can, without competition and without publication, require that his extension be practically prevented by the owner of the land to ever come into a position to use his own hunting land. It is also interesting that these commissions that help are actually made up, are, of course, of the main users and benefitres of the entire racima of two members of the Croatian Hunting Union and three members who do not know who they are, but have the Šumarski, Veterinary and Agronomic Faculty. It is not intended for the owners to participate in such a procedure and it is very difficult for me to accept. There's a technical slip coming up, and I think it might be a question of how we're adopting laws in this House. Namely, page 18 is missing. I don't know if I'm the only one who's missing it or not. So we adopt some provisions that we don't know what they look like. Could it be later days? They did. I apologize, then I didn't see it. And as I must say, I am also sorry that such laws as we have criticised in the first place because of certain legal problems have not been on the Legislative Committee before, but are now, in fact, groundless from the point of view of commitment. In addition, there is a rather illogical obligation with concessionaires in Article 24(6), it is said that the concessionaire must apply the correctness from which it is apparent that it is registered for hunting purposes. But a concessionary can also be a natural person. Therefore, he cannot be registered as a natural person and there is no system in which, at least as far as I know, in which he would register for hunting. Is it? Article 25(2) speaks of the opinion, the mandatory opinion of the State Attorney's Office which, without, seems to me without, I think the State's Attorney General is opposed to such a function as such before you actually have no serious material and legal criteria according to which any land is taken or not taken to give in a concession. And there, perhaps, should the opinion of the State Attorney's Office be maintained, there should be some criteria that the State's Attorney's Office will give its opinion. It is particularly convenient, well, it is one nomotechnical stilt again, said paragraph 2, otherwise it is held that its opinion on the legal validity of the concession contract is confirmed. Confirmed opinion. Okay. Furthermore, in Article 28, it is an unfair distribution of compensation for my taste. So you took someone a large amount of hectares of land for the hunting grounds and then to that owner who is 30 or maybe his entire life span because the concession is extended without the right to hunt and without being able to use in an appropriate way the land that I think is unconstitutional, because the Constitution says that for all restrictions on ownership you have to give a market fee. Then this unfortunate owner gets 25% of the funding, 25% takes the budget, and 10% especially on the ministry's special account, I don't know how much in the law according to the rules on the state budget, on a special account of the ministry, so 5% at the expense of the county or the city and 35% of the funds is received by the Croatian Hunting Federation. So more than the owner of the land. And that's something I just can't accept. Furthermore, in Article 29 of the Law again, some attacks on the constitutional system and on criminal law have been removed, but the attack on the succession regime remained. This means that in the event of the death of the concessionaires, the concession is actually annulled. I wonder with what right we define the order of succession and the inheritance right where the heir enters the legal position of his legal predecessor. And I think it's something that's not good. And it can have very serious consequences for him. Very serious consequences. Furthermore, there are other problems. For example, the provision of Article 35 relating to the 34th time when the contract is terminated and the contract is terminated and the prior concessionary or the tenant is placed in a very unfavourable position of the "rex position" has no right to any compensation, any investments he has invested, etc. which I think is contrary to some basic principles of mandatory law. It is particularly interesting that concessions, therefore for 30 years, are given to someone to have a hunting ground, and the hunting-economic basis, as it is said, is that I find it difficult to pronounce their name, can be later brought. Well, I guess it's given to someone for such a long time as the hunting ground, because they have a vision of what that hunting ground will look like. And you first give him a 30-year concession, and then you tell him now you figure out what you're gonna do with that hunting ground. For me, for such lease and concession transactions, that basis should be the basis of the decision rather than the subsequent decision. Is it? Because I'm afraid this side that gives and doesn't have a big choice. We know that these breakups aren't very popular or that they're being practiced. There's some other cute finess, not to mention, there's actually a lot of them. One that doesn't make any sense to me, and here's the more I'm going to say not to bother you, is the question of a stranger. It's said to be, I think it's an article 69 if I'm not mistaken. Article 3 A foreign citizen shall be allowed to hunt in the Republic of Croatia if he meets the conditions, so to speak, the exam etc., and upon entering the Republic of Croatia must have a written call from the hunting authority. Does this really mean that we have a two-month-old stranger in Croatia in an elite hotel and that on the seventh or tenth day of his stay in Croatia he can't remember listen, I would now go hunting and I will pay the fee. Why can't he? Because such an invitation must be made when entering Croatia. That doesn't seem stimulating to me for tourism, and the bohemian doesn't have any specific logic. All in all, we at the SDP Club know that the law must be passed, that he must do what his HDZ colleague said to prevent the riot in the area. But we think that he would have to endure major, major changes in the nomotechnical arrangements, especially in relation to respecting the rights of ownership guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37131	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37132	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Josipovic. The missing page was delivered twice. One time you got it on the Legislative Committee, and the other time you got it in the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37133	Okay. HSP counseling club. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37134	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I know it's not easy for you, you're defending a bill you didn't participate in, in making that law, it was your predecessor. We at the HSP Club looking at the version that was discussed in December last year under P.Z.E. 227, and this latest version we are in doubt again, namely the valid law is called the Hunting Law, this is called the Hunting Law and we think it would be more appropriate to call the Law on the Croatian Hunting Union in view of the contents of this Act. Why do I keep it, because of the fact that something is actually happening here that public authority, means the state of its public authority leaves it to the Croatian Hunting Union, the truth in a legally rather poorly unspoken way because if there is such a possibility and according to the General Administrative Procedure Act to transfer public powers to someone, so the state can transfer its public powers, as a rule it is the law, this is the law. If such a thing is done, then it must be prescribed to the point how and how it will be monitored when a person in the name of the State exercises that public authority. Thus, theoretically legally speaking, this version is possible for the state to leave its public authority to someone, but it is legally not allowed to do so in this way. It is also up to us, and here it is important to say that the problem is quite large, the problem of a valid law and state which, dating back to 7, 8 years of the problem of what is the situation in the area of hunting, the former government, knows and this government, unfortunately not much has been done, although both the timely and the other government have been warned by the State Inspectorate, now we have a variant that these transactions, related to hunting inspectors, will no longer be in the State Inspectorate, but will be in the same Ministry, where the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will be. I'm just going to try to get you the data, and you'll see how and in what way it's possible for 30 to 50% of the big game to die on national hunting grounds during one year. I don't know how it's possible, I won't talk about what hunting grounds it's all about, but it happens, it's being conducted under the pretext that the savage died, so that's how it happens to you. That's official data, so 6 bears died, 145 deer, 172 deer, 675 feral pigs and 26 muflons. This is a pity somewhere of at least 150 thousand euros, it happens to you in one year that in the state hunting grounds "kill" savages, and we know for ourselves that the money where this savage allegedly died was either politicians or members of the Croatian Hunting Union, and already many others that you could read in the media and yourself. Now let's look at other variants and variants, and we know for ourselves what kind of hunting ground to be in, and now I'm going to tell you what it looks like in practice. Here's an example of Motovun forest, there's only 83% of rabbits, only 49% of pheasant, whites have 73% of wild boars, in the national hunting grounds, such as Smrekova's dear real... in the deer is usually only 50% planned and the deviation from the number of game planned for hunting guidelines of hunting-economic base is 100%. So there's a string for you so I don't count everything as a situation, and on the other hand, you're allowed to hunt, so despite what the situation is, it's far below what the hunting ground should have, it's still allowed to hunt. The worst variations were also about Croatia's forests, what the Croatian forests received, they essentially had an obligation to master the so-called so-called so-called concession or lease. But they couldn't have had any investment reasons, they couldn't legally invest, and now this agony continued for a long time, and finally, according to the information that we have at the HSP Club, it happened that they had higher income expenses. For example, for 2003 alone, this is about 37 hunting sites, the revenues were 13 million, according to their data from the Croatian Forests expenditures were 18 million and something, the difference is about 5 million in negatives, and according to inspection supervision the revenues were 11 and expenditures 23, so there is a difference of 11 million. Therefore, all these things talk about the state having to deal seriously with these problems that are present, and that is why the proposal and the position of the Croatian Party Club is right, we have 1050 hunting grounds, we establish a public institution and we hire for start at every hunting ground of a developed defender, if not two and the benefit will be multiple. Namely, we will prevent poachers, prevent the alienation of mineral raw materials, steal wood, we know ourselves that the hunting grounds are located in the area of the forest, so we will address the issue of the average fire protection and border protection. Let's be responsible for the property that's big, so let's make sure that the people who work there are the developed defenders, the young people they'll stay living in these areas, there's still a chance that they're self-employed and breeding savages. Look at this proposal from the age of 99, me and the late General Bobetko, Mr. Drnić we gave it then that proposal was not passed, we know why the interests were private, lobbying stronger to organize and form something, this proposal had former authority but also didn't do much about it, namely, they began to deal with the uniforms around the rangers. They accepted as a starting version that this proposal could be effective and then they did uniforms, I think they managed to make it look like those Ranger uniforms I think they went all the way to Canada and everywhere else, then they gave these rangers such conditions that even the doctors of science couldn't become rangers according to the conditions they gave. So let's make a deal now so we can do something that will help, which will essentially solve these problems, let's go to the establishment of public institutions, let's make it possible for employment, and we won't get into a situation that's very possible, we can either rent or concession, although this version of the Law that we've now received is not visible which is the difference between one and what is the difference between the other, so that it means that there's a part of the full uncertainty, and the biggest problem that can happen is that the foreigners will buy again, enter means through concession or through leases that are possible, and we have 330 thousand unemployed and let's go anywhere where we can and we'll have a whole better and different situation, we'll have people who will be able to have a full income because they'll be able to do anything. That's the case you're dealing with in Canada, there's a lot of situations, so let's not give something to someone and not know how and in what way, and let's not let savages keep guessing at such a large percentage and allow hunting in areas and we know for ourselves that we shouldn't allow ourselves if the fund is like this. Therefore, these two versions, the first one we got, this second one, are small differences, are still important this variant, there is no fund to improve hunting, and this fund should have been with the Croatian Hunting Union according to the old version, according to this, it goes even more directly to the account of the Croatian Hunting Union. And it remains that part of the Croatian Hunting Union has a leading role but without any supervision. In the first version, it was this case that this fund and the Croatian Hunting Union were even outside the ministry. Now it's been tried to make some form, but I'm saying, legally, it's not like that. And now I would only finally warn of the same big problem and that's the problem in the area of trade. We know for ourselves that the trade of savages in unsuitable, about the black meat market, gamers deal with various associations that have neither conditions nor anything, this is all done beyond control, we have everything else. And now this variant, when the inspection is still transferred to the ministry, let's say, the variant is that the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests is also the Secretary of State and that there are also hunting sites that are given to the Croatian forests, so there will be a variant that there will be even more of these... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37135	Thank you very much. The HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Ledinski, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37136	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here after a few months we have a new Bill of Hunting Law on benches, so let me say a few words on behalf of the HSS Club about our positions regarding this Law. First of all, the HSS Club was about putting the law into a regular procedure because of the proposal we talked about four months ago, and we think that Croatian hunting deserves a stronger and stronger treatment and in legislation because the importance of hunting as an economic branch is now small but in the future could be significantly higher. I think hunting has its place especially in our tourism, in our economy because it can be a source of significant income. I would like to give an example that now in the state hunting grounds in which the Croatian forest is lords, hunting income is already 2% of the total income, if we know that forests are the master of everything on 10% of the area, then it turns out to be a significant part of the income and the wealth of offers that can be offered to foreign tourists can certainly be even greater. We, too, at HSS, view it as hunting, as a continuation of the tourist season, and since it seems to me that we are all together determined to develop all forms of tourism in Croatia, then I think we must see hunting as such. This Law must clearly comply with many other regulations, with the Act on the Protection of Nature which is the next point, the Law on Forests also, the Law on the Protection of Animals and All Others, and in that part, I think that certain items will need to be aligned with the laws that will be brought into practice now. About the legal aspect of this Law, Dr. Josipovic, who cited a whole series of remarks that stand in the light of this Bill proposal, did not seem to be involved by many lawyers but rather by more hunters or people who deal with one part alone. My remark is to the secretary who is new, to whom I wish a lot of success in the new job, that a part of the eminent lawyers who will be able to reconcile the interests and wishes of hunters are certainly invited for another reading, that we do not come to such absurd situations that we are here, to see that in some articles it is really the opposite of both the Constitution and the applicable laws. When we talk about a law like this and it gives certain public authority to one association, it is the Croatian Hunting Union that I am a member of, then we must always look at the fact that certain interests that exist in the management of certain associations are often not in common with the interest of those involved in hunting, breeding and the protection of savages. So in that part, I agree that the hunting alliance needs to be given some powers, they have used them so far, although they have not had the authority to do so and in that part of the organizations of certain sure that they can be given. But also some powers that already exist today in certain services, certain offices of the state, I think that we should then change a whole series of other laws, for example, the Statistics Office runs certain indicators for full statistical, for the whole country, complete statistics for the whole country, and if we are now giving it to someone else, we need to hire additional people on these jobs and someone is already doing that job. We also know that there are persons in the county offices who are in charge of certain hunting matters, and in that part of the question, should all these powers be resolved differently, or could it be displayed and managed as so far, along with perhaps some different powers that can be given to the hunting alliance. When we talk about it, it's kind of weird for me to say in a hunter's journal that went right after the last reading of the law, it's already been published that the minority law was passed even though we saw that the law was withdrawn from the procedure, so I wish that our orderly hunter was here in the O.R., I'd like that in the future when something is said that we're not just passing the views of individuals on some votes, about how something has passed and the procedure has not been carried out at all, but is even withdrawn from the procedure. It speaks of certain desires, interests of individuals, and does not speak of glorious solutions. Because if we'd let that law go, and if we'd brought it in, we'd only have a lot of problems, which is what dr. In my debate here, I must say that I really fully support it. When we talk about these public powers, then it's always about where part of the money that was received from the lease ends. Whether the owner of the land gets part of the funds generated on the lease, whether it gets local self-government, whether it gets county or ends somewhere else. Since it is predicted that 35% of the funds are put into a particular fund, it is approximately today on national hunting grounds, amounting to some 10 million kuna in common probably then two, three times more, and these are quite large funds that would then be poured into the Hunting Promotion Fund. Since we have declared and often tried to act in reality to carry out a decentralization completely and the works of the funds that are not yet the case, but in the future it will seem more and more strange to me personally instead of being part of the funds that arises in a particular county than a hunting lease if we were to give them in the central register instead of giving them there for hunting funds for the improvement of the county hunting alliances, it would be me to decentralize those funds rather than bring them into one account, and then we know how it all goes, when everything is in one place then the one who is closer to warms up. In that part, I think that the next reading should first see and resolve how to make that fee first towards the owners, and then part of the funds would certainly be appropriate to remain with the county hunting alliances, and it is known that today many counties co-finance hunting as an economic branch and thus already have significant developments in this. I think those who do this know very well that we also have good results in this branch of economy, tourism, hunting tourism. And just like that, when these funds are allocated decentralisedly, and not through a common account, I think we can gradually develop those destinations. When we talk about this part of tourism, we must clearly say that in rural areas other than hunting tourism and perhaps more rural tourism that will be later difficult to expect some other parts of tourism development and in this way some parts of our country certainly have the possibility of developing only through these forms of tourism. In that section, we also received some proposals from certain parts of the county hunting alliances. I wouldn't particularly want them to be apostrophe here, but surely it should be said that given the suggestions we've received all the clubs I think you can say that the State Hunting Union is not entirely satisfied because certain parts are reflected in certain settings and suggest that a different form of authority be established. In this part of particular, there are examples which could also serve to pass a final law proposing to establish an Agency for the Encouragement and Development of Hunting, which would have specific powers, public powers and thus likely to resolve this compromise in this respect not only means the Hunting Union as an association of citizens but also one specific agency that could deal with these affairs. Clear with adequate and professional persons who would be employed as such. And something similar is proposed also as advisory, advisory... in the Law of the Forests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it would also be good to do the same for business, these tourism branches certainly have certain public powers, but in an adequate manner that is in accordance with the law. I also think it wouldn't be too bad to think about the very name of the law that we were talking about here. He was changing. It's often called a different name; the Hunting, Hunting, and so forth. It might be a good idea to call it the Law on the Protection, Breeding and Use of Wild game. Hunting, when you say hunting, hunting irritates it often times when people who deal with protection, and in that part, I think maybe it's better to put that name on. Until the second reading, my proposal is to carry out a wider public debate first among the Hunting Alliance on, to bring it down to the level, the county hunting alliances and lower, and that after the hunters agree on their own in their own positions, then come to these benches somewhere in the autumn such a bill that would then reconcile all these positions we talked about and that would bring together certain legal aspects, but also the interests of hunting associations, poachers, and then the Hunting Union as one roof association in Croatia. The HSS Club suggests that this law goes into another reading, but with, indeed, a broad public debate is being held before the bill comes to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37137	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37138	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representative of the Government, so this is something that has changed the law compared to the one that was withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure a month ago, and it is clear that this legislative proposal is the most correctly devoted to the concession or lease. And I think that's absolutely fine because they put the council's biggest remarks on it. Unfortunately, it cannot be formally avoided, nor can it be said, by means of legal persons registered in the Republic of Croatia, but according to our Court of Justice at the IDS Club, the Ministry should do everything possible to ensure that hunting sites wherever possible continue to be managed by those associations that these hunting grounds have in the leases or concessions. I'm not a hunter, but I understand hunters. To some, I dare say even a way of life. It's not just some primitive animal killing, it's also animal care that they sort of take care of, take care of them and stuff. But the point of the law is that, or this proposal that is here before us, it has given up Article 47 that the concession can be given as it was then a domestic or foreign legal or physical person. So now in this legal text, this "side" is deleted and I said it's good, but I repeat, a stranger can register clearly in Croatia and it can conclude a concession or lease contract for his account. I suppose that's not going to happen, though, to be cynical while our tycoons have such a tendency to hunt, or as long as our generals have so much affection for hunting that from yesterday's defenders all of a sudden they've all set up builders so you don't have construction sites in Pula that it's not run by some general or admiral. But let's put the joke aside now. It is clear that if a legal person is registered, if it is registered in Croatia, it must be treated as a domestic legal person because it pays tax to the state, it is registered under our laws. She has to act according to our laws. He hires our people and so on. Finally, if we sold out all the banks to the INA, the Croatian Telecom. Now it is said that by the end of the year, the oil which is absurd over the absurds should also be sold, why not, under quotes, and the hunting grounds to be cynical give in concession to foreigners, but I do ask you, however, when Istria brings forward, to extend the contracts for a 10-year lease with existing associations. Do not simply allow someone to enter there now because they will indeed come under the allegations of earthquakes on the ground. The truth is that here this law provides for contracts now concluded by the mayor, but I suggest, in front of the IDS, once again, that the renting advantage be given to existing tenants and that we can not only look at the offered price but also at all other things that these associations mean for social life in some region. They've been gathering people, they've been taking care of these hunting grounds not for 10 years but 50 years. And don't let me count it any further. It is good that the State lawyer has a positive or negative opinion before the concession is concluded or leased. And secondly, since I know that the European Union has not asked Croatia in any of its views to give hunting grounds to foreigners, then let us not do so. But since it's hunting, everyone will agree in some way and business, and it can be a big deal then let's make it possible for foreigners to come to Croatia, to hunt here, but not to run hunting grounds. I said it was a job. Foreigners hunted in Croatia and during communism. They're still hunting today. And let this kind of hunting tourism remain in the future. But that's where bureaucracy got its fingers involved. How? Over the border regimes. I'll talk about Istria again. Foreign hunters have to pay high gun charges. I'd even say that if it wasn't some big problem. But they usually come with dogs. It's logical that they want to bring out not always, but let's say the meat of the animals they catch, but then there's a big problem. They can only do so through the border crossing of the Rupe, which is operated by the only veterinary service covering the County of Istria or the Primorian Mountain. Clearly, this service does not work on Saturdays, do not let God work on Sundays, for this we have advocated under quotes through that ridiculous Law on Trade, does not work on holidays, and this regime goes on to harass foreign hunters and becomes harmful to hunting tourism of the Republic of Croatia, especially the County of Istria. So I can't enter Istria at the Istrian border crossings of "Pozana", "Kaštel" must already enter the bypass across the Primorje-Gorski County. And the other thing I want to say, and that was also an election issue in these recent elections when the "Jelovica" border ptillas will open, because from "Jelovica" in the municipality of Lanisce, we have about 15 km to Kopra, that Trieste 18 km, and people have to travel 100 km from Jelovica to Trieste. Slovenians have built their transition, and we are standing in a place that is inadmissible, but hunting grounds that is why I say this in Ćicarija are the most attractive in Istria and thus our associations, gentlemen who operate in these areas, remain without income and if they do not pay rent as is said by February, what is said when these contracts are discussed because of this administrative terror will simply lose hunting grounds. But hunters are good and consumers. And finally, without the border crossing "Jelovica" there is no revitalisation of Ćicarija, i.e. The municipality of Lanisce, where 390 people of the average age live, say 60 years. 390 men, so let's give the gentlemen a hand. I had to say that to say that this law has a broader social function. So I repeat once again, existing associations must have the advantage of renting or concessioning in the territory they operate in order to avoid confusion. The advantage must be in the area of Ćićko Kras, not in Buzet or Barban and vice versa, the one from Barban in Barban, not in the area of Lanisce. And two. It's a good thing strangers don't put themselves in the same line with our citizens. It is also good, and under quotes, that the promoter listened to the MPs and changed the fees that should be paid to the owner of the land covered by the hunting grounds in that Article 28. It used to be 5%, now 25% is proposed. But, gentlemen, so far, we've had a situation in our law that the county of that concession has raised 20%, and the country's owners went 80%, and if the owners didn't raise that fee, then the municipalities or cities of that 80% would invest in the hunting grounds again. This must remain the way it has been regulated so far, with the aim of obliging all hunting grounds in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that one part of the fee is allocated to those hunting grounds that are still below mines today. While I am at this Croatian hunting alliance, Ministry or Government, I have a request from the citizens of Cres, Krk, Rab to present a problem as they say allohtone savages on their island, i.e. those savages who were moved, who had never been present in those islands until the 1980s. These are the pins, the wild boars, or the jellyfish, or to be even more precise Cres is struggling with the problem of wild pigs, Krk with bear, Rab with bricks. These animals should be removed from these islands for the sake of, say, the desire to shepherd themselves, to protect their flocks. They took it, we had a chance to follow it a few months ago to justice in their own hands and indirectly fighting the plagues poisoned a dozen or I don't know 12 soups which is the tragedy of our species, which we all rightly feared. But there was this tragedy because, 20 years ago, someone brought a neochton savage to the islands. The same thing is with the valley of the Mirna River. There's someone inhabiting the inside. These bezzles were so breeding that we had problems like the Slavons with mosquitoes. I just want to say, let's stop playing with such experiments that on the islands or vice versa we live in a neochton game. And for the end, preventing the damage from savages or animals. It's also better solved now than in the last proposal, but don't ask the poor girl, which is our farmers, that they protect themselves from savages from which the third person who rules these hunting grounds benefits. They simply can't, they have nothing to do with it, so let those who benefit from it do so. Last time I had an observation that hunting economic grounds should now be determined not by the county offices but by the ministries, and that's bad, because the more decisions are being taken away from the people living in a certain area, the more they will generally be worse, less unfavourable, rather than more useful. In all, the law is somewhat improved. But according to that syntax that someone said was a mess on the ground, and unfortunately this law will not impose order, nor is it possible overnight because of the habits of our hunters. This law will be some transitional solution that will bring half a row, half a mess into this mess, and it may eventually turn out to be more harmful than this existing one. So, for the end. Meet me to express myself so to the Cresans, to the people of the Rab area, to Krk, when this alochton savage is. If the government helps to fight the mosquitoes of Slavs, I support it, then let us all try to help the islanders in some way. But I agree that the fundamental issue of this law, which is the administrative body that can give your land to a concession, is, for example, 30 years or ten-year lease, without the proper administrative procedure being previously carried out. There is a real question, as Mr Josipovic noted, whether it is now an expropriation, but it is also a fact that it will not be possible otherwise to establish any hunting ground in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If we keep in mind the additional process of letting the state land into lease, if we keep in mind the fact that the ownership structure or co-ownership of all these particles really can not be able to form any hunting grounds. All in all, this law or this final proposal of the Hunting Law has been improved. It's a first reading. Absolutely he should go to another reading and we hold that the promoter will respect the comments of the constituency clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37139	Thank you, dear colleague Cain. Correction of an incorrect quote by respected colleague Ljubica Lalić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, speaking of the law on hunting, actually said one inaccuracies, which is that this Croatian Parliament advocated the dishappiness of Sunday's veterinary inspection at the crossing of the Hole, which is really not true. Because, in favour of the Law on Trade, it was about restricting the work of merchants. Parliamentarians are expected to understand the matter the law needs to regulate. Obviously, a colleague of Cain doesn't understand it and a colleague of Cain has the right to be ignorant, but he has no right to misinformed the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37141	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37142	Thank you, Mr. President. I also agree that precisely because of those remarks already on behalf of many, several clubs and presented that this should be just the first reading of the law and not the final proposal. Why? Because there are a whole series of situations where this law does not comply with the law, as it has been pointed out, the Animal Protection Act, animal welfare, the Nature Protection Act. It's already so visible. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna mention article 84, and then I'm gonna come back and I'm gonna do what I'm gonna do. Actually, maybe right now. So there's a right exactly to a certain person, do, shoot an animal that's causing damage. We know that these are special laws in certain cases forbidden. So, according to this, we have laws of the same level and in the case of any disputes, that is, when the law is applied itself, there is again a confusion that is not rare in our legal system that we bring acts of the same legal force but which, quite differently, then treat the same matter. Some allow, some don't allow. So I think it's kind of like this, maybe it's a rare situation that we're going to be brought into following this provision, but it's something that we should definitely not just avoid but completely abandon because we're both chain-bound to each other and then we have a few laws and we don't know which one we apply to an almost identical situation. The introduction was that the law was passed just to introduce order. However, I do not believe that it was certainly the applicant's intensity, but since a good part of perhaps the most controversial things is said exactly the opposite of opening up the possibility of disorder or opening up the possibility for those already existing tenants or concessionaries to do exactly whatever they want. The basic illogicality which has already been expressed and which Professor Ivo Josipovic said on behalf of the SDP Club and what the representatives when we talked about this bill, in the first reading so many times pointed out that it was completely illogical because the basis of everything should be a hunting-economic basis. It is the basis of both the terms and the tenders and the lease and the concession, not the other way around. We rent someone a hunting ground or a concession, and only then can he or she be obliged to present or subdue the hunting grounds and later that. So exactly what the sixth head should be, I think it should be the core of the law. It's something that's most important from which everything comes out, and then the use with the hunting grounds themselves, either on the basis of the concession or on the basis of the law. What seems quite unacceptable to me regardless of how it has been resolved so far, and that is that the minister is the person who gives and decides exactly on the granting of state-owned or concession state hunting grounds. It could not be or should be allowed. This should always be done by one body and then perhaps by the government or by the government itself. Such powers are not needed first of all by one minister. These are technical things that always cause one particular and unnecessary suspicion of a particular minister, and each minister runs one ministry with one vision with one concept and not that he deals with such a particular thing that I think is a unnecessary burden and is causing one great suspicion, a great suspicion by the public. That's what I mean by no minister in any government, and that's what needs to be avoided. I think that these, several provisions that speak about preventing damages and damages seem to me once again to be out of line, i.e. they are in great disrepair with fundamental laws that regulate the procedure in front of our courts, as is the law on general administrative procedure, but even more so, the Law on litigation. So the damages issue is regulated and the jurisdiction issue, the court's jurisdiction issue, the primate issue, which will do so, which is the local court's jurisdiction. I think it is quite unacceptable that one law, even if it was an important law on hunting, which is significant in economic terms, that it amends the basic law on procedure in front of our courts, such as the Law on Prosecution. It's inadmissible, and it needs to be fixed. And maybe even changing the law itself, and then there it, the Law of Parley Procedure, and complete the provisions if something was going to be very special. Is it? Both there and the Law on a litigation procedure for certain types of disputes resolves a different local jurisdiction than that of a general local jurisdiction. But I don't think it's good from the point of view of legal certainty to those, so also to the addresses that the law refers to and even more to those that apply the law. This creates a terrible, terrible mess especially in this time of transition when we have a lot of laws and therefore when it is expected that a procedure which the law solves is a fundamental law on a litigatory procedure to then be found there in some provision in the Hunting Law. That's what's supposed to happen. We sort of decided that we wouldn't do it anymore. So this should certainly be if something in particular wanted to go through the amendment to the Law on a litigation procedure, but I don't think I see it, because there are no significant changes. However, it is some of the details that can again in the application of these two laws that raise doubts about the jurisdiction over any dispute over the damage caused by savages. It seems to me that they are not on, but there have been complaints about it, and in public too often when savages do damage to agricultural cultures or cattle. In this way, in some way, by reducing the possibility of precisely the height, not only the base but also the height of the total damage, because the basic principle is exactly the principles and mandatory relations, as would be regulation and this part of the law in this bill, this chapter, this chapter, it kind of reduces that responsibility. It reduces it preferably height but also narrows down the very basis for which there is no reason at all because the pest is always obliged to compensate for total damage. It's the only way we can build a fair society. There is therefore no basis for this pest in the Hunting Law to be privileged against all other pests, even if it is a state. So there are so many of these exactly these situations that are in this, in chapter 9, and in chapter 10. So I'm still thinking and I'm standing in that position, just if the promoter has serious intentions, I say which I have no doubt, that order should be introduced, then we shouldn't go into this emergency procedure. You can see what is quite a proposal earlier when and explain why it proposes the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, and you can see that these reasons are truly tantamount because this one is nevertheless a relatively comprehensive, comprehensive law that has over a hundred articles, and here the promoter says that his reason for the emergency procedure is exclusively in that he intends to establish a hunting inspection in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the water economy is whether, according to Article 159 of our Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and enough. I don't think that's enough, but this points to something else. It also indicates that in this law we already see the multiplication and emergence of bureaucracy again, so once again only the ministry will determine both the number and the new inspectors. I think it's one big danger. It's not something we've announced, which we've boasted about in this great program, fast-quick, we don't need red tape, we need speed. I'm afraid we'll have more red tape again. Our bureaucracy needs to be educated, not humiliated by such expressions of hasty or true red tape. Bureaucracies are good if they're fast, and everything else I think they're some kind of scenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37143	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37144	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague. In fact, this law is not adopted by an emergency procedure, because yesterday the Prime Minister accepted, at the proposal of the HSP Club and other clubs, that first reading is done so that the part is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37145	Are you done? ... Great. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Marko Shirac has his word. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37146	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law in the assessment of the situation points out that breeding, protection, hunting and use of game is regulated by the Hunting Act in 1994. This law normably regulates hunting in accordance with the hunting legislation of European countries, of course at that time and at the heads of the International Council for the Hunting, Breeding and Protection of Wildlifes. A hunting economy rental system has been arranged in the Republic of Croatia, which is in practice well accepted and implemented quickly. The territory of the Republic of Croatia has established state and common hunting sites and certain areas where hunting sites are not established. 1050 hunting sites have been established and 320 national and 730 joint, and for these hunting grounds there are certain hunters or concessionaries, and with them contracts on leases or concessions are concluded, which is very important for all hunting grounds. The hunting-economic foundations and the hunting management planning documents have been developed and approved. The exercise of inspection and administrative supervision has been established. Hunting in our country faces other problems. In the implementation of the law faced with difficulties, which is the basic reason for the creation and adoption of a new Hunting Law that will be in line with the new European Union directives such as the Council Directive on the conservation of habitats and wild flora and fauna and the Council Directive on the conservation of birds. The proposer points out that the bill aims to foster the development of hunting and to coordinate non-compliance in the hunting economy, primarily in the management of hunting sites. The issues that want to be settled by law in my court are well-set, but the solutions to certain provisions remain questionable and should be regulated differently. This primarily refers to the following. The question of the role of the Croatian Hunting Union, whether it should remain as it has so far, or whether it should change its legal status and become an institution to encourage the development of hunting. I support the solution that the Croatian Hunting Union has certain public powers and that it represents the interests of hunting in the country and abroad. The administrative procedure to be conducted by the authorities of the state administration in the counties and ministries, which is the subject of Articles 14 and 17 and other articles, should be regulated in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, as they are thus written today that it is almost impossible to implement the administrative procedure in the state bodies and in the ministry. The way to determine a hunting lease is to be arranged in my court by sublegal law. The way to raise funds for the lease and their distribution should be seriously examined and offered another solution. The establishment of national hunting grounds as well as changes to the borders in these hunting sites and their own hunting grounds should be more detailed. The restriction on the ownership of the country's owners' rights in the establishment of their own hunting grounds needs to be reconsidered because existing solutions are questionable. The way game trade is to be arranged in an appropriate manner. By my judgment, the hunting inspection organization is well placed. I propose that this law be referred to a second reading as we concluded yesterday at a session of the Parliament in determining the agenda and that the Proposer propose an amended draft of the law, taking into account the observations made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37147	Thank you, dear fellow Shirac. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's a second attempt at the Hunting Act in front of us. The first one was infamous, withdrawn from the debate. This one must be recognized better. He's at least more written than the first one. But the ministry doesn't seem to be able to make up a logical and clear text. Professor Josipovic has already warned of a whole series of illogicalities in this law, and I would not repeat here. But I'm going to warn some of those professors. Josipovic did not mention the obvious due to lack of time... Here are the definitions in Article 2 we have already said that this own hunting ground under point 2 is completely unclear, but points 12 and 14 are also unclear and contradictory in fact. [[You don't understand.]] Point 12. Who owns the hunting grounds, according to the owner of the hunting grounds, is the owner of the game farm that acquired the right to establish its own hunting grounds, or farm. And who's the land user? It's the owner or owner of the land where the hunting grounds were established. Now, if he owns the land where the hunting grounds were established, he owns the hunting grounds, then he's not a land user or a land user, and he's not a catcher. You need to define what you're going to call him. But you can't call one of those same people in terms of both land users and the owner of the hunting grounds. Article 65: "It is forbidden to hunt game, lure food, water or other means." It's okay, it's perfectly fine, but Article 70: "The gamer is forbidden to hunt and lure food, water and other means in a belt 300 meters from the border of particularly protected parts of nature", etc. Now, is it even forbidden to hunt with food or is it forbidden to use only 300 metres from the border of specially protected parts? This Regulation shall enter "The gamer is only allowed to shoot with hunting weapons and hunting bullets." All right, that's paragraph 1. Article 4 "It's forbidden to shoot a gamer with bullets that aren't hunting." It's pure tautology. If only hunting charges are allowed, then you do not need to write a 3 item below that is prohibited from bullets that are not such. What about Article 71? The trophy is game from the hunting grounds or the Republic of Croatia allowed to be presented with the prescribed trophy leaf. As if there are hunting grounds and there is a Republic of Croatia, then hunting sites are something that is not the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter "For the damage committed by the gamer in the hunting grounds is responsible for the poacher if he lords that kind of game." Okay. "And for the damage committed by a savage who is not mastered in the hunting grounds in which the damage has been done, the responsibility of the poacher whose hunting grounds has been done, if the responsibility for the damage is not taken over by the poacher who rules that game. In this case, the injured in whose hunting grounds damage has been committed shall be entitled to the fertilised game which has done damage on the basis of evidence of the damage caused by the damage caused by the proposal of the competent administrative authority when the damage is done in the common hunting ground and the approval of the ministry, that is, with the approval of the ministry when the damage is done in the national hunting grounds." Give me that, please, explain. That God father doesn't understand. Who's in charge and what's the damage? It has no court that will be able to determine that the damage has been done, who is responsible for it. One thing that's going a little bit would have to go a little wider than this law. Therefore, the breeding and protection of gamers shall cover, in accordance with Article 52, the use of plant protection products, i.e. the taking of preventive measures in the burning of pastures, cornfields, reeds and the like. One phenomenon of burning these pastures and corn and cane in Croatia every year causes a whole series of fires because these fires are getting out of control. Maybe this is the law on the occasion that you should say something about it. Look, when those weeds are lit, those cornfields, the habitats of animals are destroyed because birds nest on that ground. When the fire goes over it, all those habitats are destroyed. With this risk of a fire that happens regularly every year, I think we should consider a complete ban on burning weeds in Croatia. On the one hand, in the sense of this Act, it aims to better protect wild animals, and on the other hand to avoid or reduce the risk of fire. There's no reason not to. Therefore, give the second reading of the Law a little thought, in the Government consult and in cooperation with other ministries that in this Law, but then also in some other laws, we impose such a ban. Because I really don't see any point in turning the weeds on. So weeds can be stored, can be converted into silencing, can be turned into fertilisers, but this way of destroying weeds of fire is completely inappropriate and very dangerous in the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing, you didn't appreciate it after that first attempt. You need to learn how to use an instrument. In our case, the instrument is used with a "s" or no "s". "S" means company, "s" stands for means. And now that you've written "this law regulates the management of hunting and game" then you've written that gamer along with the poacher lords that area. The instrument of society was used instead of the instrument of funds. Please, give it to me, I warned you the last time, but you didn't learn it, so give it to me until the second reading, please accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37149	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The debate on the proposal for a law on hunting, we had it at 12 months last year, and I can say that it caused a great deal of public interest. Not only the hunters that Croatia has about 200 thousand, but at all, a wide range of people because it is de facto also about protecting gamers, on the one hand. On the other hand, we can also talk about the relationship of man to nature, the preservation of natural balance, and that bill that he had proposed was withdrawn in view of the number of objections that he was present. It's not true, he would disagree with his clubmates and someone before me who said that this law, a legal proposal compared to what we had at 12 months last year if it wasn't, that there were no significant concessions, that it was de facto the same. This is absolutely not true, this is a major shift and I must commend the ministry with the proposal that is ahead of us, but it will certainly through this procedure and in another reading take its final form and give certain solutions. I can say that when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County, which numbers 6 thousand hunters that there have been terrible big remarks on the first reading, on the previous proposal. However, I must also say that I got through college today, and I believe the ministry has also received certain remarks and suggestions from the Associations and the Hunting Union of Split-Dalmatia County. I'll tell you what they're made of. In their opinion, I will only express what is most important, it is a de facto centralisation of the funds when it comes to hunting and their opinion, these associations, these hunters, that these funds should, in the first place, remain in the area where they are collected and that they should be used in some way according to low-level programmes. Not to be centralised and that eventually only a small part of the funds is returned. The second point is, it is related to some powers when it comes to the Croatian Hunting Union. However, it is my opinion that the Government's proposal is well-conceived. There may be some changes, but I think it is essentially well-conceived when it comes to the Croatian Hunting Union and its role. Certainly, the solutions ahead of us, regardless of the interventions that were both by hunting associations and hunting alliances, I mean the county hunting alliances, most of these people as we know it was in the Homeland War. The first weapons were hunting rifles, but I don't think that's why the Law that's before us isn't passed by the European and world standards and standards that are known. And I am sure that this debate and future debate, given that this first reading will be won by the result that hunters and all those involved in hunting, and otherwise who are interested in protecting savages and the natural balance that will satisfy means all those who have certain interests in that direction. What matters is, in my opinion, in Chapter 4, the way that the proposer conceived concessions. I think that this is a major shift compared to the previous proposal de facto where legal or physical persons based in the Republic of Croatia, this was not the case in the previous proposal, and it was one of the biggest ones, which caused the greatest revolution and greatest reactions when it comes to hunting associations and hunting alliances. I will commend this proposal in the sense that some of the things that were in the previous concept have been thrown out, meaning where was the obligation of a work exam for hunting dogs, which was de facto non-sensé that should be left to the individual who is engaged in hunting rather than in some way legal provision. What I am as a citizen, I am not a hunter, what I am interested in as a citizen, and a parliamentary representative is certainly the problem of protecting savages. I think there will be some more work to be done here, and I'm just going to put in one remark that is related to Article 56 of the Law in question. It is regulated there to agree for cats, dogs to stay that way, but when it comes to shepherding dogs, Croatian Shepherd, German Shepherd and Charplaninac and similar dogs I don't think it can be defined by the law that they can only be 300 metres away, from the dwellings, or from the herd. With such a provision that should be supported here in the Assembly, it is not enforceable, it is simply not enforceable, in my opinion it should add a new item, to be at an appropriate distance from the herd, from the dwelling, to the barn. I think at least when it comes to shepherd dogs, that's what I meant. Let me say a few more words about the introduction of savages. I think that's where we're supposed to be. My colleague Cain already said that. I think we should be very reserved. Let's just remember what happened on the island of Mljet. There's mongooses in there, and first they're, and for the sake of a large number of poisonous snakes, and then we've come into one situation that de facto complete feathered game from Mljet is gone, and I think there's a lot to take care of in the future. I'll also tell you that in some areas, we try to raise the wild rabbit of our indigenous in a way and increase its number we insert rabbits and I think these are issues that are quite discriminatory and that the Croatian Hunting Union and, above all, the Ministry as the last instance will have to take account of it. I'm going to say something that's not in the context of the law in question, and it's about protected species. Namely, the wolf here is not listed as a savage, he is not, because it is a special law he is protected, however, I think Mr. Secretary of State that that legal provision that is not the subject of this law, that it can stay and stay, but should do everything to the cattle that are caused by the damage not to be refunded that damage in the amount of 40, 50 or maximum 60% but to get real compensation, you need to know de facto when it comes to the wolf that he has become an urbanized beast, an urbanized animal, he comes to the edges of cities and larger and let alone smaller ones, and I can say that in Dalmatia he burns and specifically in the region of Cetina we have a lot of these problems. Our cattlemen wait a few months for compensation and that compensation will always be below the real price that those people who have treasure, who have cattle, achieve on the market. Here, expecting the final bill in the second reading, I believe that today's debate and, starting with what we will get from the field, we will come from hunting associations to a good law that will be in line with European standards on one hand, that we will take care of the protection of savages but also economic effects when it comes to the management of savages and... as such. However, we must not go to one extreme to make hunting a recreation only for the chosen, for the elite, I think it should be available to wider layers, and in that direction I believe that this bill is on the trail of this thinking and I am sure that in the final proposal that we will receive in the month, two days will be more precise and more qualitatively defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37151	Thank you. The word has been given by the esteemed vice president of Dom Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37152	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is a real happiness that yesterday it was accepted that this law goes into first reading, because I believe that in this content proposed as a final draft law that the law would have to be rejected in the Croatian Parliament and could not have been accepted, and probably if they accepted it in order to dispute it constitutionally and legally. Secondly, why happiness is so that the law is brought into line with a whole series of needs and interests within the Republic of Croatia. Because it should be said that this Law has its own legal, economical, both ecological and ethical if you want and also the tourist dimension and that I do not list all others that can come forward. However, the real truth is that already in the title of the Law speaks, the title has as if talking about activity, hunting is an activity, and we, according to the Constitution under Article 52, since it is a savage who is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, should actually regulate its protection, the way of exploitation, etc. It should also be recalled that the fees relating to the restriction of ownership rights and ownership powers must be taken into account when they are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia that these fees must be at market value. In order to limit ownership powers only under Article 50 if it is about protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia relating to security and defence, then nature, human environment and human health. I have said all of this among other things and to warn that the law is not in conformity with the Constitution, that the law is not in line with the laws governing these substances, such as the Law on the Protection of Nature and the Law on the Protection of Wildlife, and with the International Conventions which the Republic of Croatia has ratified... It should also be recalled that the Law is not sufficiently in line with the legal system as a whole, with one part of a set of laws relating to the indirect regulation of this area, such as the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Property, the Law on Courts, etc. It is therefore clear in this respect that these issues should be further elaborated. In economic terms, something that's unusual happened, let's say it's a relic of the past that appeared in our laws, even from the feudal age. You have actually shared ownership and legal powers in hunting between the Ministry, between Croatian forests and associations dealing with hunting or hunters. And you have something that is amazing but it is true to say that, for example, Croatian forests as a hunting authority have the right or option if you want to get a direct contract in a concession or the right to hunt, but that they must then pay as 50 percent as visible here. Its price cannot be less than 50% of the average price achieved in tenders, etc. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Now, if that were the case, then a certain number of people could argue from the point of view that somewhere it is prescribed that Croatian forests as a hunting authority have some special obligation to protect game, to raise game, to grow, to grow, etc., etc. It's all right. In fact, they do it in the woods, but there is no legal obligation. If not, you have another dimension that should also be seen and it is related to Article 5. That even the price that will affect the prices that affect the formation of those 50% prices is actually prescribed and brought by the Croatian forest itself. I will quote you, with the exception of paragraph 4 of this article, in cases where there is no hunting economic base, the initial price of the rent is determined at the value of 50% of the lost game planned according to the number of gamers from the decision, the establishment of the hunting grounds, the calculation and the price list of the company "Croatian Forests" d.o.o. Well, now if more Croatian forests are too much. I don't think it's such a monopoly, though. So, I don't mind being organized to give Croatian forests that they can have, that they can be a hunting tenant or concessionaire, however, that they can do that part of the activity. However, they should not be in such a position as monopolies, as even the Competition Protection Agency would eventually have to cancel it. The second remark I have to make is that it concerns the question of even jurisdiction. This law by my court is unconstitutional in view of Article 47(3) where it is said: "Content, method and procedure of adopting or approving a hunting economic base is a programme of game breeding and a programme of wildlife protection, with the previous opinion of the Minister, the responsibility for the protection of nature." So, I repeat, the content, the way in which you make and the process of bringing breeding and protecting game, etc. Please, colleagues and colleagues, at the same time you have in the Constitution in Article 52 which explicitly states that the law determines a way that good interests in the Republic of Croatia can be used and exploited by right-holders etc. a the preceding paragraph of the same article states that game is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is simply the Minister by force that the Constitution cannot prescribe but must be prescribed by law and the law must determine it. In addition, the same text in Article 50 continues to say: "The breeding and protection of gamers covers all measures and actions prescribed by hunting on an economic basis." Now, the content and way of bringing money to the economy... It is prescribed by the minister, and all of this is prescribed, to be contained in the hunt for an economic basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, in Article 52, you have the breeding and protection of gamers, which includes, at least it's prescribed that at least the minimum content of this hunting-economic base would still be, but not even prescribed. It's obvious that here, in fact, it's trying to open a large, unencumbered and unnecessary power to the ministry at a small door. And besides, it's the only thing that the ministry has at the same time under the law to oversee the implementation of this law. There's a hunting inspection within him. The truth of the matter, when it comes to trade, is being supervised by the State Inspectorate. So, all together it would turn out to be "When you're sued, Kadiya judges you, he does what he wants" and in fact he would keep one form of semi-fadual relations relative to this line of demarcation between the woods, the ministry, of course, and possible use. The second problem is to restrict ownership rights over areas, forests, forest land, of course, and agricultural land where concessions can be given to the renter when it comes to private property. Of course, a private owner can form on his own property that is in accordance with the law of a hunting ground. But what if it doesn't fit? Then of course you can give it to another. But what about... They say with intelligence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's an administrative procedure. The owner must have the right to lead the dispute. And besides, it must be prescribed which and what compensation is given. By my deep conviction, there must be a market fee under the Constitution. The third thing that is also very, very important in all of this is that they are established in addition to the lease concession on state land or hunting grounds that are possible to establish so-called. common hunting grounds. On those areas where no hunting grounds have been established either by the owners, either in the case of state, agricultural or forest areas. And now at the same time, you don't talk about who the commoners are. Who make up the commoners of the hunting grounds and what their relationship is rather than what their relationship to the owners is and what their obligations to the owners are. Therefore, it is obviously an unspeakable part and that part must be completed, etc., etc. Of course, it must also be warned that state hunting sites are established or established by a minister without at the same time being prescribed by an act and in what way, etc. Article 16 and, of course, that's when you have to... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must also warn that, among other things, new elements appear in certain parts of this law. So, besides the prices that bring Croatian forests, there is, in fact, a price pricer for the game, but for it the ministry brings. And why don't the ministry bring a price tag to the savages, not just when the savages do damage. So, when it's a shame then let the state bear responsibility and let it prescribe a price list and when the benefits are then it's a hunting authority in a particular case of the forest. So what for? Well, for God's sake, will the taxpayers now pay someone else's luxury more? In particular, it is problematic from an ethical aspect of the protection of game, and it is an indigenous game compared to alochton, a game that can appear in certain hunting grounds on one side. On the other hand, what is equally important is to ensure that certain species of game and their habitats are particularly nature protection and ecological balance. These issues are not fully developed by law and should be elaborated and in such a situation it is quite clear that in such content as the law has now not been adopted or adjusted for adoption but therefore there is a possibility that this will be corrected and arranged by another reading. It is, of course, in the case of special powers which have been authorised by the Ministry to stop and give the hunts referred to in Article 63, that is understood in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. However, the question arises and why is such public authority not previously mentioned also given to the Croatian Hunting Union. In particular, the issue of supervisory inspection and the State Inspectorate should be addressed in order not to overlap competences on the one hand and, in particular, it is insufficient to determine responsibility for who is responsible for each issue. Here, that's it. And I think it can be fixed by the second reading, but it has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37153	I thank the vice president of the House. The word has a respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37154	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposal of the Hunting Act with the final draft of the law that we returned to the first reading yesterday is a good intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the law of the European Union. And to the satisfaction of those whom this law "hits" because it is about the Hunting Law and therefore the proposal of this law was contrary to the Constitution and to a series of applicable laws, as well as to the legislation of the European Union, which was spoken of by a respected colleague, Josipovic, who knows much better than I do. It would be a bad idea that money from hunting is allocated to a hunting fund in the Croatian Hunting Union because this practice, as far as I know, does not exist in any of the countries of Europe, and this would open up possibilities for manipulation and uncontrolled spending of state money. It seems unacceptable to me that a hunting lease from common hunting grounds is collected in local self-government without the money being available to people in charge of local self-government. This is contrary to the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on decentralisation of authorities. I support that the Croatian Hunting Union has certain public powers but in the education of amateur hunters as I am, an assessor of game trophies, permanent education of hunting and the public, to represent the interest of hunters in the country and abroad, to participate in the adoption of urban plans, plans for nature management, forestry and hunting. These are the powers that the national alliances in Europe have and that is nothing new. This bill, which we have returned to our first reading, offers not exactly good solutions for hunting and the protection of game and other animal species. These are some of the reasons why I was personally interested in reading this Law well, studying, and making an effort to return to first reading. In order to adopt this Law based on science, expertise and experience, I believe it is necessary to conduct a wider discussion and it takes more time for hunters not to get the final draft of the law within a very short period of time, that there is no possibility of a wider debate. I believe that the very name of the Law may well be considered to change and be called the Law on the Protection, Breeding, and Use of Wildlife. When we talk about the protection and cultivation of the farm should be fenced in such a way that hairy gamer cannot go freely from one hunting ground to another. It is necessary to change the same fact that hunting grounds can be about 100, 1000 hectares and smaller and larger, it does not have to be decided whether 20% less or less. That hunting grounds can, let's say it's less than 1,000 acres. And that renting these hunting grounds can't be less than 20, maybe even 30 years. Because those of us who let's say we're trying to figure out how much it takes for deer and more expensive game to get to those, unfortunately, of their last days. For Croatian hunting, I also consider it necessary to form an agency for the promotion and development of hunting. This agency would deal with the employment of experts from hunting powers, the publication of all relevant expert data for hunting development, the financial discharge of the hunting authorities in the implementation and implementation of hunting holdings, the exclusion of the grey economy from hunting. That's what a lot of MPs used to talk about before me. And establishing credible communications with the European Union and the countries of the European Union in the field of hunting, in the area of hunting, to bring it closer, this hunting of tourism, hunting tourism and normal sport tourism. With a good meal for all the hunters in the hope, and in the hope that this law will be completed, we will have enough time to be pleased to welcome you all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37155	Cheers, Mr. Representative! The word has an esteemed representative, Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37156	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The adoption of the proposed law will regulate almost all the issues raised by the adoption of the existing Hunting Act in 94, so back in 10 years. By reorganizing the hunting inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy, it is the regulation of the issue of inspection supervision of the new legal... , more effective monitoring will be carried out and the situation on certain areas of hunting will be easier to determine and monitor the implementation of the laws and sublegislative acts that arise from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Law strengthens the principles of conservation of nature, game and its natural habitats by the principles of international conventions which we are signatories. And hunting besides economics is given sports-recreative and tourist significance. The law removes the possibility of adverse consequences from the implementation of hunting management... the habitat and other activities such as agriculture, forestry, regulate relations between poachers and other persons in hunting management and hunting tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It promotes good management of hunting sites and rigorously sanctions bad management and occurrences in the field of hunting and addresses many of the following issues from the existing law in an appropriate way. It shall be possible to extend the lease contract after the expiry of the contract and to change the contractual or lease of the hunting rights in the concession of the hunting rights. If, in the past, it has been governed according to legal and legal regulations. Contract provisions and hunting economic bases. This provision promotes good management and also eliminates uncertainty in the continued management of the hunting grounds. The uncertainty and uncertainty of the poachers endangers the hunting grounds of the devastration just ahead of the expiry of the existing contract. Removal of all... The area other than fenced cultures and protected facilities, a ban on hunting 300 metres from a settlement in the valley and 200 metres from mountainous mountain areas is being resolved by the issues of game management and game damage and wildlife damage issues on the former not hunting surfaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of the applicable Law on the establishment of a programme for the protection of game animals in non-hundry areas, the confidentiality of the implementation of those programmes, the regulation of the relationship between programme operators and counties, programme implementation fees, compensation for damages and others are not consumed in any county. So the implementation of the provisions that regulate this problem has produced a number of unresolved problems. The mandatory marking of gamers regulate the traffic of gamers and the mandatory keeping of records with authorised veterinarians or veterinary inspectors and records of poachers, and the delivery of those to the Croatian Hunting Federation shall be subject to order in the implementation of... game, game traffic and central hunting records are established without which it is not possible to analyze or plan hunting work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The funds paid in respect of concessions and leases shall be allocated in a way that is more appropriate to the rights and needs of landowners without hunting rights. 25% of the funds paid to the owners without the right to hunt for a proportionate area covered by hunting grounds for which the ransom is paid. By way of the budget of the local self-government unit, i.e. the city of Zagreb, in the area established by the hunting ground. 20% of the funds in the state budget, 10% of the funds for the special account of the Ministry of Law Protection and Conservation of State Hunting not under contract, for damages in state hunting sites that are not under contract, competition, promotion, funds for the special account of the Croatian Hunting Union in favour of the hunting fund, 5% of the funds at the expense of the county and the City of Zagreb for the implementation of the law, the execution of tenders for joint hunting sites, the damages from game and common hunting sites that are not under contract. Since landowners without the right to hunt so far have not sought compensation due to relatively small amounts, or because of the high cost of proof of ownership, the land book was often more expensive than what the landowner was supposed to receive, these assets were accumulated in the county and city of Zagreb accounts and could not be spent legally. The law directs these funds to the construction of municipal infrastructure so that owners can at least indirectly be compensated. Since the situation of our hunting and hunting sites is a large investment and the funds from concessions and hunting are not sought by landowners without hunting rights, the law directs some of these funds to improve hunting, demining hunting sites, promoting production,... savages and hunting tourism, marking large game, buying top-of-the-line game trophies, developing and improving hunting, monitoring the state of the game population and their natural habitat, insurance hunting grounds in the event of damage to the game of 20%,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Insurance, hunting records, scientific research, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These funds would be deployed in a transparent or most efficient manner through the Croatian Hunting Union, or the Committee for the Control of the Resort Ministry. The distribution of these funds by the ministry would only be a temporary solution for shutting down accounts and by intervening the agency for, or the office would spend a significant part of the funds in the mood for their work. The law prescribes a way of producing a hunting-economic base and a procedure for their approval and adoption for common hunting grounds as well as for national hunting grounds. Which means that the poachers, the poachers, will bring in hunting-economic bases themselves, and will be approved by the Ministry. According to the current regulation, the foundations were made by the county and the city of Zagreb's commissions and brought by the county city of Zagreb, which caused a number of problems related to the misdetermined hunting conditions. Bad and unreal planning of game and hunting management and the inability to implement the basics as well as the need for numerous audits of the grounds. According to the proposed regulations, the poacher assumes responsibility for all the facts established by the hunting base, such as the state's, as in State hunting grounds, has shown a good solution because the production, adoption and implementation of the hunting-economic base has not been followed by those problems. The law also prescribes a number of other measures. Since the hunting season for large game management of at least 20 years. The management of bear according to a special national plan, the management of large species by breeding areas, the demarcation of business between the Office of State Administration in County and the City of Zagreb and the administrative bodies of regional self-government. Making measures and compensation criteria for game damage and other measures and resolution that will improve the current situation of the hunting economy and management as a whole. I would refer with a few words to Article 8 which gives the Croatian Hunting Union public authority, which is a good team in my court before Article 73 of the Law also confers powers under the authority of the Ministry and other authorised organisations such as universities and universities in the implementation of hunting grounds, the assessment of trophies, the passing of hunting exams, which was not good in the first proposed law. I would also like to commend the ministry and the government for accepting the second reading, which some criticise is not ready. In my opinion, it is good not to go to law-making, to be respected, to respect the remarks of both committees and MPs, without being thrown into law-making like some would do and to say we passed the law by emergency procedure even if it was not good. That's why I welcome this way of passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37157	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's great that this law goes into normal procedure, so it's not an emergency procedure, because in an emergency procedure, the number of amendments would probably exceed the number, the number of articles of the law. It seems to me that since the last, last debate on this law, no big step has been taken, as some colleagues say. No big step has been taken to change the essence of the law. It's the essence of the law. The essence of the law is that one association is given the authority of practically a state organisation. From this essence, it follows from this essence a mass of other things that make the law unfair on the one hand and inapplicable on the other hand. The terms are defined this time at the beginning in the introductory articles of the law, which is good. They are not clearly defined, so you can't see the difference between a common hunting ground and a national hunting ground. The difference is owned. That doesn't say clearly in there. It should have been clearly written, so at least that law would have been quite acceptable. It seems to me that the key to the view of the matter is contained in Article 4 of the Law. This game is interpreted as good of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Which is good. However, the law bypasses the possibility of declaring the Republic of Croatia the owner of the game. So the titler. Because of this, it would follow the responsibility of all possible situations and would actually follow the inability of a citizen association such as the Croatian Hunting Union to accept, take the authority of the state governing body. Article 7 of the Croatian Hunting Union defines itself as a voluntary association where all hunters are joined. One who does not join the Croatian Hunting Federation has practically nothing to do with this activity. So it's a voluntary association that needs to be joined if this job is to be done which is beyond logic no. Article 8 defines the powers of the Croatian Hunting Union. These powers shall extend from educational authority. So they educate hunters. They give people the profession that's written in the book. A man gets a job with that. He's getting paid off something the association trained him for. It seems to me that the associations in that, in that function, cannot and should not function. The question is also whether the powers, whether the powers of the Croatian Hunting Union extend only to hunters and hunting organisations, associations, tenants, concessionaries, etc. or to all of us? In one article of the law, landowners who do not have hunting grounds are also stimulated to give some regular reports about what is happening to, with savages on their land. I don't know how it's meant to be spent, and what if it isn't? What if I don't want to communicate with one of them as the owner of the land? I don't care. Of course I want to communicate and I have to communicate with the state authorities, but I don't have to communicate with the association. And I don't see how that, in what way could the legislator force the citizen, the owner of the country to communicate with the association in such a way? Articles 48 and 91 define, defined, the conditions for persons who can make hunting-economic bases and be hunting inspectors. It's been determined that these are the people who have finished this and that college. Meanwhile, the education system in higher education has changed and the term "completed college" doesn't mean God knows what anymore. The legislator should make it clear and loud whether it is a pre-graduate or graduate study? Is it a college or a professional study or something? There is a university in Karlovac where they are educated in professional studies, hunting engineers in pre-graduate and graduate studies. So what used to be drive engineers and graduate engineers, for example. The legislator did not foresee that these experts, so that these experts could develop hunting and economic bases and be inspectors, although they have a three-year study of 900 hours annually only of these colleges while students at some universities have a 15-hour hunting college. And that's it. That's all they hear about, about hunting. And another, another provision that actually speaks very clearly of the intention of the Croatian Hunting Union to be a privileged association not only in this organisational but also in a monetary sense. Landowners holding concessions, leases and other incomes receive 25% on that basis. A lease and concession contract can be concluded for 30 years, and then extended. The contract is made by someone else, not by those owners. The owner will receive 25%, the Croatian Hunting Federation will receive 35%. I don't know what to call it, but expropriation, and expropriation is just a civilized name for robbery, for what this Charoga and Prpić have been doing, so it seems to me that such powers and such privileged position of the association would not be in systematic thinking about the needs of this important economic branch, nor could they afford a state organisation, or state administration, nor would they want to do so. I therefore propose to the legislator that, i.e. the legislator, the legislator should think carefully about the fundamental concept of the law and that hunting is an important economic branch that can develop into an extremely profitable branch from which a large number of inhabitants in Croatia can live, but not so that it is private responsibility and private ownership of an association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37159	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative of Mate Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Well, just one thing. When membership is in the Croatian Hunting Union that you have said, whether or not it is questionable. Let's just say, do we have any information on how many hunters when he passes the hunting exam he joins any association? He is also a member of the Croatian Hunting Union. What happens to them after a few years? We have information that several thousand of our fighters are out of control. So he's not a member of any association, he doesn't pay membership fees, but he has guns and hunts. He's got a gun. What are those few thousand hunters doing to the state? Who has the information on that? I think membership in the Croatian Hunting Union would be good if we had it under control, the difference between the hunters who passed and those who were recorded. If we have a hunting dog, and he's a member of the Kinological Union, the hunter shouldn't be a member of the Hunting Union. Second. When it comes to money that should be allocated to the Croatian Hunting Union in this law, it is done somewhere for about 7 million at the level of a year. So it's not the kind of money that's completely talked about by the fabulous, which the Croatian Hunting Union will have at its disposal. Anyway, it's been working, like, seven million in a year. And when you take the way we've had to pay so far, that you have a county that in 15 years isn't one lip, one kuna is returned back to hunting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37161	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37162	The esteemed colleague got it all wrong. I'm not against the Hunting Union as a way of organising hunters, I'm against monopolys. If the law prescribes that only the Croatian Hunting Federation, then this organization, this association has all these privileges and privileges. I think it's wrong. Why wouldn't the law prescribe that the Hunters' Association, that hunters must be in the association and should be organized. But that the Association of Hunters, the Croatian Hunting Union or the Hunting Federation of Croatia or I don't know how and which other third, fourth and fifth can do the same job. It's an idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37163	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37164	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's already been a lot of words about this law, and it's hard to say something new. But anyway, this is still a better proposal than we had a few months ago that was passed to this House and this bill of law, although of course it has a series of irregularities and a series of technical errors. Anyway, until the second reading, I think it's nice and well arranged so that it's a law that we can really pass. It is important that certain standards are introduced in this law relating to Council Directives of the European Union, it is important that certain standards are introduced in this law relating to international and legal conventions and that we take over certain liquids and certain European Union standards in that law. But what's generally the characteristic of our hunts is that it's actually clearly visible and in the explanation there's a little bit more than 1,000 hunting grounds, one inequality of the management of these hunting grounds. We do have hunting grounds that have been evaluated as one of the best hunting grounds in the world, as the hunting grounds that are truly maximum, and while we have certain hunting sites that are average, which are even below average. And in any case, the law itself will not, of course, lead to the fact that, suddenly after its entry into force, the hunting grounds begin to dominate significantly better. But there is no doubt that the new law and such a new organization will lead to some positive shifts in that segment. In any case, I therefore support this law and I think that the second reading can be significantly improved. But many colleagues and I think that in this previous bill too, we have talked a lot about these public powers given to the Croatian Hunting Union, and we really need to find one measure of whether public powers, as provided for in this Bill proposal, should this be given to one of the Czech associations, or should we leave it to our respective ministry. Because, certainly, those exams, which the Hunting Union will conduct, can be organised by representatives of the Hunting Union, may be participants, but within the framework of the ministry. And that is why I think that this needs to be considered before, to see, of course, the experiences that are in other European Union countries, and possibly until the second reading, in fact, to present to us what experiences in the European Union itself are related to this. Of course, there are a number of technical things to fix, so among other things, the name of the Hunting Act, here from the explanation that we're going to change that it's not the Hunting Act anymore, but the Hunting Act, because hunting is one broader concept that includes both breeding and protection and shooting. Now, if we go that way, then that hunting term should be installed in that article 2 that regulates actually the basic concepts where we stay at the hunt itself, and we change the term of the law itself. So there's a thing that needs to be coordinated. And what I would really insist on is what I think is very important, and these are the provisions of article 84, five and six regarding compensation for damages. There are certain changes that have to happen, because as defined in this law, I don't think it's good, it's not accurate and it's not clear. I'll say it this way. Article 84 states that, for the damage committed by a gamer in the hunting grounds, a poacher is responsible, if the masters with that kind of game, provided, this is important, I think that on the condition that this should actually be removed from that article, that the damaged person has taken the necessary measures to prevent the damage to savages which, within the meaning of this law, was obliged to take. Of course, everyone is obliged to take all measures to prevent damage. However, it cannot be restrictive, for if anyone suffered damage, he could suffer the damage whether he took action or not. The fact that he has not taken these measures can possibly be some reason for sharing responsibility and all that. But you can't rule out someone to compensate him for not doing it. It is even worse this paragraph 2 which actually determines the damage committed by a gamer, which does not rule in a hunting grounds and where damage has been done is responsible for a poacher whose hunting grounds have been damaged, if the liability for damage is not taken over by a poacher who controls that game. What does that mean in practice? We've got two hunting grounds. In one hunting grounds we have a certain kind of game, and in another hunting grounds we have a wild pig and now that wild pig from another hunting ground goes to this and does damage in this first hunting ground. And now it means, this first one is responsible for the damage that that wild pig has done if this other one doesn't take on that damage. And then we still have the situation worked out so that now the one who's compensated for the damage, it can be huge damage to the personal vehicles that, about 100, over 100,000 kunas that are climbing, and now it means he's the only right to ask for it, I still don't know from the ministry and that, consent to shoot that wild pig and that the one that's significantly less worth the damage he's paid him to own that wild pig. I think that this must change and that this compensation must go from who actually rules that kind of game, because in this way we will actually lead to an unequal relationship between those who actually grow game and who begin certain damage. Also, these articles of 85, 86, say if the damage caused by game on the same agricultural culture is a repeated value of individual damage cannot be greater than the value of expected cultural yield. I think it should be brought into line with the Mandatory Relations Act. The Law on Mandatory Relations accurately recognized that the damage and this as "lex specialis" could not, however, be a restriction to me, but the damage is, if someone has done harm to someone, it is obliged to make up for it in its full scope and even in the one that means getting away. These are some things that definitely need to be fixed for another reading. And that law could really go through the procedure this time and we could bring it in. And anyway, this is more important than we had a few months ago. So I support the law, but with these second reading repairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37165	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This House of Commons knows that I am primarily against hunting. That was explicit in the proposed Animal Wellbeing Act that was before this House last fall. I believe that the development of society and the state of biospace makes hunting in this period and the immediate future actually real anacronism. But well, since it's likely that savages and forests will disappear before the hunting ban we have to deal with some regulation and we have before this House a law which, by my deep conviction, is very problematic. My key point is that this legislative proposal gives too much authority to the Croatian Hunting Union, which instead of the competent ministry will keep the central hunting records. The question is whether the central hunting record will be public. It's supposed to be prescribed later by the rules, I mean away from the eyes of the public. The Croatian Hunting Union has been treated almost as a government agency in law, although it is an interest group that cannot therefore be in charge of overseeing law enforcement whose purpose is to ensure that different interests are met, including the preservation of nature and biodiversity, the safety of citizens and the prevention of law abuse. The application of the information access law is also questionable. In this case, since the Croatian Hunting Union is not a public institution and the question to what extent can the Croatian Hunting Union be obliged to conduct a central hunting record in general. Furthermore, as much as the government trusts one another, it can act at first sight as a step forward against a more innovative way of managing public goods. In this case, it is very problematic and irresponsible to trust such an important role in the implementation of the law only one association, without any prior verification of its capacity, competence, quality of work, as well as without the envisaged process of selecting the best partner based on the competition of several interested organisations or agencies. For example, the Croatian Hunting Union, like any other association, has the right to disband itself in the first next assembly and is completely irresponsible from the legislator to the law enforcement so far without the envisaged alternative options to a volunteer organisation that can or does not have to act on a continuous basis. The question arises whether there are private interests affecting this privileged treatment of the Croatian Hunting Union in the implementation of the Hunting Law. I have a few further remarks. Some ecological associations, for example, the Green Action, suggest adding to the law a provision that checks, baits for animals and especially for bears cannot be placed with drinking water sources that are very rare and precious especially in karst areas. This de facto animals are brought before the final act. Their biological need for water is used to shoot them, and hunters are the only tasks of a pleasant time and a poor shot. Also, this proposal and this proposal for a law on hunting have reduced the width of the belt in which the settlements are not to be fished in hill-mounted areas from 300 meters to 200 metres. This change is completely inappropriate because in practice, even the existing limit is not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37167	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37168	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, allow me to engage myself in this debate about the Hunting Law. Well, first of all, our general position is ours, and I speak on behalf of the Međimurje Democratic Union, the regional party. We can say that we are not satisfied with the centralisation that is being implemented and in this law, by centralising funds and decision-making on common hunting grounds, which are mainly established on the private property of the owners of hunting and county, and I believe that these funds should be poured into the county budget and into the budget of the units of local self-government, so these resources should also be spent in the local community. Each county would continue to spend its quality programmes to improve hunting in common hunting sites in the form of various stimulations in the purchase of live game, the protection of game, the insurance of game damage and the like, and in order to develop hunting and hunting tourism, which is of particular interest to the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, we will also go with the amendment specifically to Article 28 where we will waste on making a different schedule of funds. We know that 25% goes to landowners' compensation, 25% goes to budget. So it's not specifically defined. I assume that's the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Oh, no? Under 2nd of 10% of the funds go to a special account of the Ministry of Law Implementation. 5% of the funds go to County and City of Zagreb for law enforcement. And 35% of the funds to the special account of the Croatian Hunting Union. Our proposal is therefore that out of these 25% of the funds that should go to the state budget 10% of the funds are therefore directed to the budget of the local self-government units. This is indirect in some way and enabled in point 2. So unless this 25% payment is made, so within a year they haven't asked the owner of the land without hunting rights, they can be used in local self-government units to build municipal infrastructure. So some possibility, the alternative is provided, but I think this law should establish it as a commitment and re-distribute those funds so that part of the funds goes to local self-government units, so to municipalities and cities where these hunting sites are so that they can benefit from it, because they also have maintenance costs, for example. and Polish roads, communal installations used by hunters and their guests in the area. So we're not going to go with that amendment, so hopefully he's justified and he'll be accepted. Another thing we'd also like to do, therefore, is start the process in some way decentralisation, and we think it's the procedure itself, for example. the determination of the limits of the hunting grounds to the end centralised and that no form of local administration or self-government has been included in it so far, so we suggest adding point 5, which would read: "In determining the limits of the hunting ground must also take into account the opinion of the unit of regional regional self-government i.e. The county, whose hunting grounds are being established." So far there are some criteria that are not even defined until the end and which are missing and we think we should include the opinion of the county, so someone who knows the space very well, in order to avoid possible problems, and there are many such problems. Here's one problem I've had to support right from my neighborhood, from Međimurje, which has existed since the 95th time these hunting grounds were established. Afterwards, only the county reacted, but nothing was done. Namely, what it's about. In 95, a hunting ground was established by the government's decision, so where it is stated that the 5/1 Dubrava area is the total area of 3565 hectares in the County of Varazdinska. The first was therefore a mistake in the fact that most of the hunting grounds are located in Međimurje County. The solution, therefore, to establish the hunting grounds has never been delivered to the County of Međimurje or the Hunting Society of Međimurje or any other institution. A few months later, the Međimurje County immediately sent a letter warning that the hunting ground was not formed under the law, but unfortunately neither was it corrected until today. So here I can only say that even now 1.4, the functioning of this same hunting ground has been extended which, in our opinion, has not been established under the law. What are these arguments that tell us that it wasn't formed under the law? So in this letter sent by the County to the Ministry in 95 years ago, it is said that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish its own hunting ground is in direct contrast with the law and Article 10, which reads: "The limits of the hunting grounds must be seen, and are determined depending on the natural nature of the whole, ecological, geographical and other conditions, the coastal sea belt, fenced protection belt, highways and master roads that prevent the natural migration of hairy savages." In a specific case, and as this comes from a copy of the katastral plan for the number 51 Dubrava hunting grounds, it is a hunting ground near Donja Dubrava and Donji Vidovac St. Mary, in the middle of this hunting site the river Drava flows. Thus, there was no respect for the provisions of the Law on the natural whole and the river as a border of hunting grounds, for the river is therefore located and passes right through the middle of that hunting ground. Also in a specific case, the minister identified the area of hunting, but not on state land but on private land, as mentioned above. The area of the hunting grounds is from 1903 hectares on state and 762 on private property. Also, what else is the problem? This particular hunting ground covers the area of the left and right coast of Drava, and extends in the area of even three counties: Koprivnica-križevci, Međimurje and Varazdinska and covers the area of six hunting companies, including Veliki Bukovac, Mali Bukovac, Legrad, Donja Dubrava, Kotoribe and Donji Vidovac. The disputed hunting ground is located within the area of these hunting companies, for example. The hunting company from Lower Dubrava now has the rest of the hunting grounds on the southern side of the state's hunting grounds, and the other part ten kilometers north of the state's hunting ground, so the hunters themselves are being prevented from carrying out their duties without any problems. It is also pointed out in this letter that no one in the County of Međimurje has ever been informed of such a solution by the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, and that no one in the area of the County of Međimurje is talking about the devastating finding that the hunting ground is located only on, so it is stated in the solution to the decision, only in the area of the Varazdin County, and the fact is that most of the hunting grounds are located in the area of Međimurje County. So that's one of the examples that comes to us, so the fact that they no longer contact those lower levels, and that's why we're proposing that article 12 be complemented and that the limits of the hunting grounds are determined with the opinion of the unit of regional i.e. Local self-government to avoid this kind of tension between hunters, tensions among people, so that hunters, therefore, and people, will be relieved to do their jobs as easily as possible, so also as hunters, so that they can carry out their duties. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37169	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37170	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on hunting from which we removed the urgency of the procedure yesterday because it really doesn't matter whether the law is passed in two days or 32 days. It is important to pass a quality law that will regulate existing problems and needs in a more adequate way, in the best possible way because it is a very important topic. We have already discussed this law when, also after the initial scheduled emergency procedure, a number of legitimate remarks were withdrawn. Some have said that it was then tried under the company of alignment with the Law on Design and the detour of the central authority of the state administration, i.e. ... hunting inspections on a small door and quickly bring inadequate and bad solutions. In any case, this proposal has introduced several remarks from the debate at the time, which is certainly good and has greatly improved the bill's proposal, and today's second reading with any amendments can greatly improve the law because it is important to stress that, or that many of us are hunters, that most of us legislators have consulted with people from the field who certainly know more about it, who live on it. After all, some of us come from the county where hunting management is well organized, as is the case in my Varazdin County. And while it is quite clear that the law must be brought into line with the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of Central State Authorities in order to establish a hunting inspection, while it is clear that further issues need to be brought into line with the Directive, i.e. Directives and conventions of the European Union, it is also clear that one of the major changes relates to solutions related to public authority or to the extension of public powers of the Croatian Hunting Union. This information, as well as the claim that new legal solutions are intended to introduce more order in hunting, also encourages some of the remarks that I will make in principle for this time in my first reading. First, the law unnecessarily centralises and redocrates certain hunting jobs. The intervention and consent of the ministry, i.e. the minister, is unnecessaryly envisaged for almost all or many decisions, regardless of whether it is state or joint hunting sites where the counties should have powers. Secondly, in common hunting grounds, when it comes to good management with respect to all the rules, it is necessary to allow for the continuation or extension of the hunting lease primarily to the domestic, more specifically to the domicile hunting associations, so that it does not happen that the hunter who managed well loses his hunting ground to some weekends under quotes, because he accidentally offered the kuna in a public competition that weekend, which means that the best, i.e. the most favourable offer should not only mean the highest offer of the lease. It is that hunting for hunting tourism will become more and more concerned about the preservation of the environment, biodiversity, autochtony and the like. The further problem is the allocation of concession fees and those 25% for landowners without hunting rights through the budget of local self-government units. Namely, in the midst of the vast depletion of land, a huge number of cadastrian particles, it is impossible, i.e., to equate these funds to the owners. Because it is often a matter of several tens or hundreds of kunas whose distribution would cause a high percentage of costs in the amount itself. It should therefore be possible for those funds from the budget of the units of local self-government to be used for some purpose related to land or something like that. Furthermore, there are other problems. For example, savage damage. Because a particular problem arises when, in the case of road accidents, traffic vehicle crashes and savages. Namely, the road is not a hunting ground, a traffic signalling that warns the game can contribute to safety, etc. In spite of all the misunderstandings in this regard, courts regularly judge the damages of hunters or concessionaries. And given the urgency of the court's damage done to the verdict, it increases to 5, 6 times the amount of the damage actually done. In this context, it is necessary to examine and possibly install solutions from some neighbouring and other Western European countries by the final draft of the law. It should be further more precise and fairer to solve and the problem of wildlife damage in crops. There are some other remarks, but I heard them, or we all heard them from our colleagues, so there is no need to repeat them. In any case, this somewhat longer procedure could result in a very good law that is our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37171	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37172	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I also want to say a few words about this bill. I also agree with the fact that the law goes into regular procedure. This proposal that we have before us today is better than the previous one, and I am convinced that the final bill after today's debates and after any changes made on the basis of these discussions will be even better and we will get one quality law. Of course, this is a matter of interest to many who are interested in the general public. It should not be forgotten, therefore, that it is directly the interest of 10,000 hunters in the Republic of Croatia. Here's only in my carlovia county almost close to 3,000, so it's no surprise that in several attempts this law is passed. I would just like to comment slightly on some of the allegations relating to the assessment of the situation with which I agree in principle, but also to add that the leased system prescribed by the 94 Hunting Act is not quite so acclaimed. It was on the ground, and those who dealt with the problem of informing joint hunting sites at the county level and conducting public competitions know it. There were different interests and attempts. I think in general in Croatia that this is well solved, but well perhaps only for the reasons why I would call our lease model a mixed model. Mixed because it was implemented as a lease system, however, the tenants of these hunting grounds are in the most part, and if I am not mistaken somewhere about 70% of the hunting association that had been hunters in certain areas until then, along with any slight changes. And that's exactly why one transitional solution, I think he's been able to live. Of course, the next period will be up to date. There were likely fewer problems with national hunting grounds than with these joint county hunting grounds. But I'm saying, so where did someone on the side come along, of course it wasn't very nice for those hunters whose grandfathers and fathers and they themselves have been hunting in the area for almost a century or decades. In light of these basic issues that need to be regulated by law, it is said that the law stems from ownership rights on land. That's what the whole of the law, and we've heard it in club debates, can hardly grow out of this very text of the Law. But as far as ownership is concerned, I think it should also be defined in the law itself, define whose gamer is owned? How to give someone an obligation to control savages if she's not familiar with the owner. I hope my colleague finishes soon. I think it should be clearly defined that the state is the owner of savages, and then that right of management, so through breeding and protection and hunting, is passed on to other legal and physical persons. Of course, according to this Hunting Act. I would also like to comment on some of the articles in the Bill's proposal. Article 6(2) states that the right to hunt on hunting grounds owned by the Republic of Croatia cannot be transferred under concession or leased common hunting grounds. That's a fact. Of course this provision should be supported and it should stand. However, in practice, there are other cases publicly or secretly where different contracts or other arrangements still occur under lease or concession. I am coming, I said, from the county of Karlovac and in Karlovac is the headquarters of the university, so I would especially like to point out some of the provisions relating to Article 16. In particular, paragraph 4 where it is said that the Ministry of State Hunting or Wildlife Breeding can entrust hunting rights with a direct contract to a company and then some colleges from the Zagreb University are listed. I support this view, therefore, that it can come for various reasons in view of the direct award of leases or concessions to the commercial society of the Croatian Forests. However, I would generally suggest that we specify a provision that can be given to higher education institutions that have mandatory hunting facilities in their curriculum and programme, since there is a Faculty of Agriculture, in addition to the University of Zagreb. There is also, therefore, a university in Karlovac with a department and a hunting study and thus they would be brought into an unequal position compared to these colleges. I also suggest that we consider giving higher education institutions the right to rent or concessions without compensation because I assume it is the intention of the legislator to use hunting grounds for teaching and scientific research purposes, not primarily to achieve profits. Of course, with the obligation of these higher education institutions to make all the funds obtained by potential management of these hunting grounds invest in improving hunting teaching and scientific research. In the regulation of concession issues in Article 21, I think this is about the word "30-year-old" that is about a press mistake. I suppose the concession should be allowed for a period of up to 30 years. She can be less than 30 years old, I don't think she has to stand for 30 years. In the event of a concession, there is also one question which I consider to be questionable, and this is the possibility of the Ministry, during the duration of the lease, to give a hunting concession on time to the end of 30 years, so that the lease relationship becomes a concession. I do not see any great reason for this, and even under the conditions listed in Article 22, it is about the conditions he accepted by making the lease. If such a thing is done then I think it is far more appropriate or appropriate to comply with the provisions of this article with Article 31 which allows the payer to extend the earliest in the previous hunting year at the latest and no later than 90 days before the lease time is due once for the same period if the hunter carried out the measures and actions prescribed by the contract and this Act with the consent of the Ministry. So I'd even the provisions in these two articles. And I particularly think it's important for the leases and hunting associations that have concluded contracts for 10 years to enable the extension of this lease mainly in areas of special state concern, because we know that during the war in this area, savages have gone missing, they have invested a lot on imports of game. All hunting homes in the areas of special state care were burned and destroyed, hunters also restored them, restored hunting and economic facilities, and of course it is not a negligible mining of this area. In Article 48, where it is mentioned about the creation of hunting-economic foundations, I also suggest that we coordinate in a way that also other high-school institutions that have hunting subjects, or people who have graduated from those universities, allow them to make hunting-economic bases. Here's not to be too long, although there are more articles and provisions to be commented on, but other colleagues have also commented on them, I suggest that the Proposer consider these suggestions that I have made, and I believe that the Final Bill will be given an even better quality and ultimately a quality Hunting Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37173	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37174	Dear Mr. Vice President, I'd just like to supplement the part that my colleague was saying is he's voiced hope that there are no big problems in the national hunting grounds. Now I'm just going to tell you the cases when I worked at the state inspectorate, as the actual situation has been determined and unfortunately nothing has been done. For example, your first case was the Concessionary of Industrial Construction, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which, contrary to the law, freed them from the obligation to develop development programs even though it was a legal obligation. In this case, it was also proposed to terminate the concession contract, also in Interlova, Kutina, Babina beams and many other cases were equivalent examples of infringements, whether concession agreements or lease agreements, because it was found to be all contrary to the law and unfortunately nothing was done. Because that's the situation, I'm not going to elaborate now how many of these other hunting grounds there are, which, by this law, we really need to bring order into those areas and take measures to sanction those who did something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37175	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37176	This wasn't actually Mr. Kovacevic's replica, but it's kind of a supplement, so I can accept it or accept it because it's facts, but just to explain the part I was talking about. I have been speaking in the context of the lease, and I remain with this claim because in the common hunting grounds that she has defined, and where the competition was carried out by the county, many more have been expressed by the interests of hunting associations that were particularly sensitive to these hunting grounds where I have said their fathers, grandfathers themselves have been hunting for years, perhaps it was, or I believe that it was certainly less in national hunting sites but these facts, and which my colleague said, of course, are standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37177	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37178	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I join those who have stressed here that the new Hunting Law leads to re-centralization. Centralisation through the Croatian Hunting Union, which is a voluntary association, which is given public authority and which are slightly constitutionally-legislatively questionable. Centralisation and through financial resources, because unlike when funds were previously paid to the county budget now almost 70% of the funds go to a higher level than the Ministry, which to the state budget or the Alliance. In 94, when the law established state and common hunting grounds were inflicted great damage to the hunting associations that until then ruled the hunting grounds. Why? Just because more valuable hunting sites were then declared state hunting sites, they were leased by the ministry and the funds ended and ended today in the state budget. Hunters who have managed such hunting grounds for years remained the most often less valuable catchgrounds, and precisely by pawning the counties today and many of these common hunting grounds are also high-quality hunting sites, but not only by pawning the counties but also by the rest of the financial resources that have just been helped to restore them to quality. In fact, these 70% of the funds, which were otherwise intended for landowners without the right to hunt, were usually not raised by the owners because they were very small assets, looking at the depravity of the property, they ended up with joint units of local self-government that were then jointly invested. Jointly invested in the restoration of the younger, in the protection of the hunting grounds, in the battle against the rabies of foxes, etc. And all in order to actually restore hunting sites, create enhanced hunting, even create a quality hunting product. With the new allocation of funds, indeed very few funds remain to the owners alone without the right to hunt. Because, as I've already pointed out, 70% goes to a higher level and only 5% stays in the county account. I'm afraid this kind of re-centralisation of funds will result in her mismanagement of common hunting grounds again. I would like to draw attention to what has already been said here, and this is the favoration of certain institutions such as the Croatian Forests, the Faculty of Agriculture, where they are given means of law, the law of the hunt can be entrusted with a direct contract with a certain payment that cannot be less than 50% of the average price achieved by competitions, but I would agree with my predecessor, who pointed out that it should define here that it is colleges, i.e. educational institutions and normally scientific institutions that I would almost say should get such hunting grounds for free. But perhaps it wasn't even an earlier formulation bad where it was defined that the right to hunt could be entrusted to a land user who doesn't have to be this institution and who has enough qualifications and enough expertise to run certain scientific research which today is not rare in other countries. I'd also like to point to monopolization in the section where the initial price of hunting is defined. In fact, earlier in the current law, the initial price of renting was set at 5% of the lost game in the fifth year of the hunting economic base and at market prices. It is now said that the initial price is determined on the basis of the 50% fertilisation of game in the 10th year of hunting-economic base, but what I am stressing here is questionable is you are counting on the price list of the Croatian Forest's commercial society. Therefore, the price and initial price of the lease will be determined on the basis of one institution which has already been favoured and which is privileged in the sense that it can enter or receive the right to hunt on the basis of a direct contract. On the other hand, here she will be the one to dictate prices. I think it should be transferred, done by the ministry as part of a particular commission and experts who can define such prices because I say, I think it is a monopoly in case it is left to the Croatian forests. What I still want to point out here is the strange definition of preventing damage and compensation. Namely, I think the landowners without the right to hunt are repeatedly damaged here. On the one hand, we enter into his possession, the owner has no right to influence the number of savages or not to participate in the creation of a hunting-economic base. He has the right to compensation in terms of obtaining funds to build up and defend himself against damage, which means he has to do it but to make the irony even bigger he has to hunt the authority to prove to the owner and owner that he is precisely in the hunting area of the tenant rather than vice versa that the hunter has to be the one who has to know which area is covered by his hunting lease and that he has insight into the ownership papers and not that every individual who will now come for a liter of two or some kind of asset must still go after the excerpt and prove that, I own and these parcels, I now do not know how to pay for that and all to ensure the safety of the hunter. So this part has to be quite defined. Because I'm saying, he's grounded for what he has to do, set up for hire, and spend more money on proving his property. Let's get this done by a hunting authority who's very interested in everything working. So I think these are the remarks that should be corrected by the second reading, I say from this monopoly to this privilege, and in that case I think there's a reason to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37179	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Bozidar Pankretic. He's not in the assembly. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The word has an esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37180	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues! We've had opportunities today to hear a lot of professional and competent opinions. About this problem, I personally don't feel so competent but let me say my opinion in a few sentences. Reading this law imposes a dilemma on you. In fact, what does this country want strategically from hunting? Whether it will be a recreation for its citizens, whether it will be an economic branch or a tourist branch, or whether it means that hunting is essentially a protection of nature, environment, etc.? When you read this law, you actually get the impression that it's all of it and it's not really any of it. The other thing, it turns out that the state doesn't want any of it, or that it just wants some kind of regulation within one activity, and it leaves it very easily to someone else because if we had some kind of strategic commitment to hunting, then we'd probably have some kind of state hunting agency, and then there'd be some kind of logic that the agency would then run a verification and certification of whether someone was going to be a hunter or not, to prescribe some kind of condition. Because without anything against hunters, I don't think it's a state interest for hunters to prescribe their own terms, to question themselves, etc., etc. In fact, when you read this law, I feel like it wasn't written by the state, so it's written by the hunters or the Croatian Hunting Union. I have nothing against the Croatian Hunting Union, but I have no objection to the right of one county hunting alliance or another county hunting alliance not to be in this Croatian hunting alliance. I think that, in that first part of the law, it should be assumed that within the hunting system and hunters there must be some association, some possibility and some organization outside the Croatian Hunting Union. What, I don't know, happens is that the assembly can't meet, there's a conflict within the Croatian Hunting Union, then there's a need for arbitration, etc., etc. But we've had enough of these examples already, and I don't think there's any need for me to repeat them. What I'd also like to say is why I don't think the state administration wrote this bill. I think there are more than one third of unnecessary things in this law, and these are things that have been solved by other laws, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Weapons, etc., etc. And it seems to me, in fact, that some, to call them, interested groups, associations of citizens or industry, would be very happy if they could get this kind of law. Here, I thought of sports fishermen. Imagine sports fishermen so you can give them a law like this and a possibility like this. They'd all be grateful and happy. After all, I'm going back to that. I don't see why hunting should be in Croatian forests. Because they master with space. Never mind. And that's because we don't have strategies. Maybe it should be tourism, the tourism ministry, in the tourism resort. Maybe it should be in environmental protection. I could say a lot of examples here, actually, about this law and illogicality. You have one that stabs me in the eye because we actually recently had one arms campaign by the government. And now that you take the article 67, I don't think I can imagine that there's something written in the Hunting Law besides the Weapons Act. Well, it says there the minister prescribes the use of weapons and caliber. It's crazy, the minister can't prescribe it. It could have been by now. Why? There's no telling what caliber a big bird is fighting and what small, big game, etc. What he has to prescribe here, let alone prescribe use. And the question of whether it should be specifically stated, I don't think it's wise, that the hunting weapon is also a gun and a revolver. I think all weapons and hunters should be given as other citizens, so if a gun or a gun belongs to a hunter's weapon some gentlemen like all other citizens get fine with a license to own and carry that weapon. So I can imagine the minister prescribing the use of hunting dogs but to prescribe the use of weapons that I don't think it can be in this law. In fact, I don't think a question of guns should come in this law at all if we have a gun law. The question and the register and everything else, too. I don't think that's necessary. Otherwise, around these public powers, it might not be bad for someone to calculate how much state money is denied and what gets tied up, related to these public powers. It's good that this law is in the first reading, it's good that I believe that all these discussions that were here in the House, and I believe that there will be time and space for someone else to say something, says about this Law, and I believe that the Proposer will actually accept, at least part of the fact that some things in this Law are being made, made to say, I say, moreover. Because the issue of ownership, it could be discussed in particular. And concessions, or hunting grounds. In fact, it's always when you want to see which side, so to speak, since dealing with laws, you always have more interested parties to which side that story is pulled, you see only about the distribution of money. But since there's been a lot of talk here about money. You know, I don't really care about the distribution of money, but you know what I'm interested in? I'm interested in where these money's being spent. It's very, very important where these money's being spent, whether it's going back to hunting grounds and what hunting grounds, or whether it's coming back residences, villas, hunting houses, and so on and so forth. So it seems to me, I say, that we are going back to the beginning about how we are not really ready to hunt at a higher level in Croatia, but we are still ready to leave it at a level, recreation for our citizens, or people who are involved in hunting, I have no doubt in that protection of nature and the environment, but I think that Croatia and the space and that Croatia has the possibility, and in part of this Law things are a little different set up and regulated. And I think even hunters, I don't mean the bureaucratic structure of hunters, but I think, or those who represent them, but I mean the hunters, and the state, if you will, the tourist workers of kudikam would be pleased. Here, I'm ending up in a way that I'm pleading with the Proposer to take care of all these remarks that are being made here today, because it seems to me that no one has fully supported the law, everyone has looked back on one part, and I think that some kind of taste or some kind of message could be drawn from it, and at least because I and this Law understand, no matter what form it will be adopted as some sort of transition to a final and more complete and elaborate solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37181	Thank you, we've finished the debate on this agenda point, the Secretary of State wants more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives, here's a very broad discussion, the subject is obviously interesting for everyone, so that whatever the law says will always be remarks on him and on such and such. Here, as the legislator, we will study all these remarks, discussions, opinions that have been made today, and we will prepare a law for a second reading. I hope that it will be even more quality than you said today by respecting today's certain observations of opinions that are clearly possible to be included in this Law. There's plenty of room, here, we'll do our best to make that law even more quality for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37183	I thank the Secretary of State. The break is now until 3:00. In 15 we continue with: 14. Final draft law on plant protection products, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 298 And the first is the HDZ Club, Mr. Kurecic. Resume at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37184	Proposed law on hunting. First reading P.Z.E. 297. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on hunting is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 8 abstentions, 20 against the accepted proposed conclusion. We have one conclusion of the Committee on Tourism: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit a strategy, concept and programme for the development of hunting tourism in the Republic of Croatia within 6 months. Is there any indication of a government representative? There's no government representative on this. Then I put that proposal to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 39 votes for closure, 7 abstentions, 55 against. The proposal didn't go through. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On the agenda we have the final draft law on plant protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 298. The proposer of the law is the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. I ask the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Dragan Kovacevic to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. First something about the very reasons for the law. In the Republic of Croatia, the area of plant health is governed by the 1994 Law on the Protection of Plants with Supplements, the 2003 amendments. This law also regulates the area of plant health, but also the area of transport and use of plant protection products. Since the Stabilisation and Association Agreement provides for the harmonisation of phytosanitary legislation with the directives and practice of the European Union in the preparation of this proposal for a law, it is taken into account that these two areas are therefore plant health and plant protection products regulated and clearly demarcated by two separate directives of the European Union. And this Directive 2000/29 on protection against the introduction into the Community of organisms harmful to plants and plant products and their spread within the Community and Directive 91/414 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products. Another important reason for the adoption of this Act is in the absence of existing rules in relation to the EU, in particular regarding the competence of state bodies for plant protection, secrecy and data conservation, the compatibility of the registration documentation, the lack of legal framework for the implementation of the audit or re-registration of funds and a number of other issues that need to be regulated in order to ensure that our plant protection system is compatible with European and respect for the highest standards of human and environmental protection. In relation to the action of plant protection funds on increased yields in agricultural production, protection of human beings and the environment must take precedence. There must be a balance between competitiveness, profit, environmental standards and nature protection. We believe that the adoption of the EU's highest standards through this law will ensure that. It should not be forgotten that the shift in the common agricultural policy of the European Union and the high environmental standards that the European Union today promotes and prescribes are the result of the fight for profit and maximumisation of agricultural production by a unit of farmland leading to a serious disturbance in the balance and pollution of the environment. The draft law on plant protection products shall firstly prescribe the jurisdiction of one State Authority in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, which would be the central, coordination body for operations under the section of this Act. In practice, this will significantly speed up the registration process because only one administration is now in charge of registration, only one state body compared to the previous jurisdiction of two. And also instead of three solutions now will be enough one solution. It shall also be prescribed to register plant protection products in accordance with Directive 91/414. Transport and supervision of plant protection products and active substances considered as plant protection products according to EU rules. Packing and marking funds, issuing permits under this Act. Monitoring of the transport of plant protection products, monitoring of the residues of plant protection products under the pre-defined annual programme, ensuring their financing, then keeping a register of legal and natural persons dealing with the transport or use of plant protection products. Reporting and keeping records, meeting technical requirements to be met by plant protection devices and their components. The authority of the professional institutions responsible for the implementation of the law and the inspection supervision of its implementation shall also be prescribed by the implementing rules adopted under this Act. And just in the end something about going into effect and applying the law. This Law gives rise to a large number of sublegal acts that will need to be adopted in order to specify the implementation of the law in detail. It is also necessary to make a thorough reorganisation of the plant health services, which will also require reorganisation in the Ministry of Agriculture itself and in the special administration. We also need to give our producers enough time, enough space to adapt to very demanding regulations and standards of the European Union which are more rigorous in any case than Croatian regulations and standards. Accordingly, we predicted that, in accordance with the 2005 National Adjustment Plan, the law would come into force in half of 2005. However, it shall apply from 1.1.2007. So for all of these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37187	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. I'm opening a debate. HDZ club, respected representative Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37188	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, colleagues and colleagues. Plant protection products are the final forms of active substances, therefore substances or micro-organisms, as well as preparations used to protect plants and plant products from harmful organisms. They affect the life processes of plants, the preservation of plant products, and the destruction of unwanted plants, so weeds. It is therefore a special category of chemical and biological preparations, plant extracts, oils and the like, which protect the primary plant production, crops and plantations from harmful organisms and weeds in order to prevent the loss of yield. However, as individual plant protection products fall into certain groups of poisons, they can also have adverse effects on the production of plants as well as the risk and danger to humans, animals and the environment. Especially ground, groundwater and the like. In particular, where it would be permitted to use without prior official testing and approval by the competent national authority as well as the application in an incorrect manner. Of course this is about the interests of the manufacturer, the assets on the one hand, in the game is a great profit, the user i.e. agricultural producers, on the other hand. In the game is also profit directly or indirectly. But first and foremost of all residents, so to the public, given the impact of chemical resources on soil, air, groundwater, the final product of agricultural production and the like. This is why this is a very important area and a very important law under which all countries, especially members of the European Union, have introduced uniform rules and procedures for the registration of plant protection funds. In the Republic of Croatia, this area has so far been regulated as directly as it indirectally with four laws; the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Poisons, the Law on Toxicity, the Law on Chemicals and the Food Act. The plant protection law is mainly focused on the protection of plants, and only in a small way is it coordinated and focused on plant protection. In the European Union, these two areas are separate, because they do not overlap in practice but complement each other, so we also need to do so. Furthermore, in the current, or current Plant Protection Act, no central state body is fully competent for the entire registration and transport process of funds, as well as for the reporting of the European Commission. For example, intellectual property rights have not been detailed, no temporary registration of funds has been resolved, the documentation accompanying the registration of funds is insufficient, and neither can the revision programme of existing registration funds and the like be introduced. This proposal for a law, except that it is fully in line with the regulations of the European Union, shall primarily regulate the jurisdiction of a national body for the issue of plant protection, transport and control of the means of plant protection, the registration of funds in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, the packaging and labelling of funds, the issue of authorisations, the control of transport and residues, the register, those involved in the transport as well as the use of means, the establishment of a system of all data, the exchange of data, the recording of funds, the fulfilment of the technical conditions of all those devices used for the transfer of funds, authorisations and supervision. The aim of this law is, among other things, to introduce order and in a way that the applicant will now apply for the registration of funds to be submitted to only one institution and will end up getting one solution as previously said, which means that the records will be in one place only and the procedure simplified. In short. The draft law lays down provisions of the relevant Directives of the European Union that will allow for the full application of all provisions of the law, although justified by the delay of application, which will ultimately allow high standards of control of plant production, transport and use of plant protection products, as well as high standards of human and environmental protection from the possible inappropriate use of plant protection products. That's why the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37189	Thank you very much. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37190	Thank you, Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of this Law on Plant Protection and I find it extremely important. Here we have debated two readings on genetically modified organisms, and we have seen how difficult we have views on this matter and that in fact there is a great concern in the public about the harmfulness of the use of genetically modified organisms in human health and in the environment. But I would dare say that there is, in fact, a greater threat to us than we already have, especially from the uncontrollable use of plant protection. I therefore believe that it is important to regulate this area well and to control its application later, the application of the law in practice. Of course, in the primary production process, agricultural production that crops are exposed could tell the continued risk of harmful pests including weeds and that they need to be protected and protected. And such protection is also used to protect, but also to improve production. But we would have to say that you, the means that count and open, we know that we have a classification of extremely harmful, toxic and toxic to human beings and other living things. So, besides being able to protect plant protection, which improves production has adverse consequences, they can have adverse consequences, especially in the case of uncontrolled use. They are then also a danger to the natural environment, then to the land, water, forests, to the plant and animal world, but also to the adverse consequences as I have said for the health of people and to the protection of all of the above, it is certainly of general interest both to the Republic of Croatia and to each of its citizens. Therefore, these official regulations, state regulations, laws governing registration, as well as the application of other issues relating to this must guarantee a high standard of health care, and should in particular prevent the registration of means of health risk, as well as of groundwater and the environment. Of course, human health and animal health and environmental conservation should certainly have an advantage in terms of conservation and increased yields. It is also necessary to review the already approved funds periodically, as it takes into account both the development of science and new technology as well as the experience. It happens that, say, some kind of plant protection product we find harmless, and later it turns out that's not exactly that. I consider it important in this law Article 12 which speaks of a legal or natural person who is engaged in agricultural production and who intends to place those products on the market being able to apply funds only if he meets the conditions laid down in respect of education and professional training, and where he has adequate devices for proper application. Because in small farms so far, I've made a lot of contact with people who have worked on the protection of plants, so that in fact they're being treated quite unprofessionally, that there are no rules of protection for who works with such means, because people are not sufficiently familiar with the harmful consequences for their health, but also for the environment. I also consider it important to be an article 10 that speaks of the remains of plants, in plants, in soil, but also in food. There is certainly a reference to the Food Act which also touches the area and which speaks in fact about these maximum quantities of pesticide residues in food and here is the inspection, official inspection should carry out sanitary veterinary inspections and I think we should really have more such inspections and strictly control it. Because often I think about shopping in the market as they know how to say it from the maids, we think we bought something healthy and useful. But then I heard stories that, in fact, in such small productions, funds are used, and often they are incorrectly and incorrectly to increase the yield or to preserve the longevity of such products, so it is really necessary to put it all under control and control. Then, in Article 34, which is certainly a medical professional and medical professional work here, I feel positive that the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine and the Croatian Institute for Public Health is also involved in scientific and professional activities in the field of use of funds. When I worked in practice and when farming companies were still organized, then every day dozens of workers came to check whether they could work on plant protection and whether there were contraindications. I could say now that it's gone at all, and we still have agricultural production. So that's a lot of out of control, too. Then, here, I also find it important to consider that Article 37, which states that the activities of the control, eradication of harmful organisms in agriculture and forestry can only be carried out by legal and natural persons who meet the prescribed conditions that they must be entered in the registration of legal and natural persons. I think it's really an important shift, that there's a record of a person who'll be able to do such a job. Then, that they must use devices that have a certificate, that these devices must also serve what has not been the case in practice so far, and then that it is regularly examined. In particular, I'd like to draw attention here to the disposal of the packaging. It's us who in these areas, then we know that these remains are either plastic cans or it's paper packaging to get it or bags, that it's uncontrollably thrown into the canals and all around, which really threatens us then the danger of all of us. Here I wanted to warn really about this one area that I think in practice so far has been poorly regulated and not sufficiently applied that it really needs to be arranged. And I think this law is a good step towards it, but it needs to be controlled and sanctioned later. And to conclude, I find this law important. And as it is consistent and here with the legal gains of the European Communities and the Council of Europe, I support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37191	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Members visiting the Croatian Parliament and Croatia is already several weeks away from the study mission of the National Democratic Institute of Iraq and at the gallery there are 20 political activists who are monitoring the work They also visited political parties, the parliament and are familiar with Croatian and Croatian democracy, institutions. [[Applause.]] Let's move on. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37192	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. There is no doubt that at today’s stage of civilization’s development, it is impossible to imagine agricultural production without the use of plant protection funds. This is still one of the most important ways of health protection of plants and plant products and promotion of agricultural production. The use of these funds in agriculture effectively prevents the reduction of yields and ensures sufficient food supply. However, since it is the means that fall within certain groups of poisons, or at least a good part of those resources, it belongs to a group of poisons. It is clear that these same funds, along with that positive effect, also have that other side of the medal, can also be harmful. Their use may include risks and risks to humans, animals and the environment. This risk is particularly highlighted if the application of these funds is not subject to strict supervision and control, or if the law is not precisely regulated in the way they are applied and the conditions of placing them on the market. In order to ensure that the potential risk posed by these funds is reduced to the minimum possible extent, it is necessary that the law accurately regulates that their placing on the market can only be allowed as officially tested and therefore their application is granted by the competent national authority and, of course, if the conditions and method of application are strictly respected during their application. The law should make it impossible to register funds that pose risks to human health, groundwater and surface water and the environment. When granting authorisation for the use of certain plant protection products, it is primarily and exclusively necessary to give priority to human, animal and environmental health in relation to the objective to be achieved by applying such means, which is to prevent the reduction of yields. That is exactly what the law which is the subject of this debate aims to achieve and should therefore be supported. The adoption of the Law on Plant Protection is important not only because of the label E, which the law bears in its name, but it is much more important because of ourselves, because it will regulate this very important and sensitive problem in a better and more precise way, which is very important because of the health of people and the preservation of our environment. This law regulates that plant protection products cannot be registered and placed on the market and applied unless they are registered with the official national body. Any product not used in accordance with the prescribed conditions becomes poison and endangers human health, animal health and pollutes the environment. In order to achieve the objective of applying the plant protection product, the health protection of plants and plant products and the improvement of agricultural production, and it is necessary to respect the prescribed concentrations and to respect the prescribed time of withdrawal, or the time to pass from the time of application of a particular product to the moment of placing the treated product on the market, in order to ensure that, at that time, the degradation that occurs or that we will have metabolites that are not harmful to human health, as sometimes metabolites can be more harmful and dangerous than the parent substance. The question of the correct use of plant protection products is regulated in Article 8(2), so the product is applied in accordance with the instructions for use and the label, including the preparation of the prescribed concentration with respect to the principle of good agricultural practice if integrated plant protection and environmental protection are possible. Now this raises the question of small producers who place their products in the markets of our cities. What is their knowledge of the possible harmfulness that the use of these funds has to do with human health? Do we ask ourselves, when buying fruits or vegetables in the markets, how have these products been treated during their cultivation? Or we live in the belief that it's all what we like to say domestically. And mistakes happen most often, not because some farmer is seeking as much as possible by birth, so of course, and for the greater profit, he deliberately violates the accompanying instructions and regulations, but the most common errors occur from ignorance and ignorance. As a result, education is vital. The legislator is obviously aware of this problem, so Article 9(1) of the Law says: "A legal or natural person who deals with agricultural activities and who puts his products on the market can only use the means if he meets the prescribed conditions for education or professional training and if he has adequate devices for the proper use of the funds." In order for the provisions of this article to be applied in practice and, of course, it takes a little more time for all those involved in agriculture to acquire the necessary knowledge and training. It is also good that the legislator of Article 69 determines that Article 9 will only apply from 1.1.2009. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order to establish this, regular controls should be carried out. So one systematic monyoning, however, not only is it important to conduct monyoning of the health regularity of the foods or testing of the rest of these funds in foods, but it is also necessary to implement one systematic monyoning state and presence of these substances and compounds in our environment. Of course, it all requires well-equipped laboratories, not only as far as the apparatus is concerned, but also as regards the expert staff. And I think that because of this, the legislator predicts that during this period when the law will start to apply, it means since 2007, that these material resources will also be created for the successful application of the law. Article 12(1) states where, in implementing measures or procedures prescribed in the field of environmental protection and new scientific and technical knowledge, there is evidence that a regulated means is a danger to people or, in the case of a registered means of danger to people or the environment, the minister may restrict or prohibit the transport and use of funds throughout or in part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I think the word "can" should be replaced with the word "will." So the minister will limit or ban traffic, etc. Namely, when it is said it can mean it can and can, but it also does not have to prohibit the use of funds when new scientific and technical knowledge gives evidence that the registered means poses a danger to people or the environment. It is certain that, in such a case, the use of this means should be prohibited, not left to the minister of choice. Finally, paragraph 1 is formulated in the way proposed by the Proposer is in contradiction with paragraph 2 of that same article because paragraph 2 reads: When the asset contains certain active substances which are restricted or prohibited in the European Union, the Minister will restrict or prohibit the use of such means in the Republic of Croatia. So I think the same criteria should be applied in paragraph 1. Different countries sometimes differed in certain regulations that regulated the quality and health of certain products. This created a constant problem when importing or exporting products between countries that had different legal regulations. This is why one of the tasks of the European Union is to bring legislation into line so that no such problems arise, and so the Republic of Croatia in its preparations for entry into the European Union is harmonising its legislation with the legislation of members of the European Union. However, each country, including ours, has certain specificities to be respected. As a result, it is good that the legislator of this law provided for the possibility of deviations in accordance with opportunities and eating habits in Croatia. Not to read everything, I will only read Article 5 of Article 24 that says: "The competent administration may restrict the use of funds in the registration process because of differences in the food habits of the population in the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent consumer exposure to remains higher than the allowed daily entry." I think that in this way the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is further protected from potential dangers. I also see that the time at the end, I think it is good that, given that this problem is actually in the jurisdiction of several ministries, and therefore in the jurisdiction of several inspection services, I think it is good that the legislator has clearly distinguished what is in whose jurisdiction, so that there is no practical discrepancies, overlapping of competences, etc. So anyway, here's the end of it again, this law needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37193	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, I will agree with you that this law represents high European standards on plant protection and certainly with the primary objective of preserving human and animal health, preventing adverse environmental impact, and above all, on groundwater, while preserving agricultural products in order to achieve quality production. I think even so far when it comes to pesticide traffic, we've had a strictly controlled check that's going to be placed on the market, that they really had to have been biological, allergic, toxicologically tested, and that we haven't had any major problems up until now. We have also conducted a register of legal and natural persons who have been involved, i.e. those involved in the transport of protective funds, and a well-leaded register on legal and physical persons who carry out the activities of the control and eradication of harmful organisms. But I think that problems arise and have arisen about the keeping of reports and records on the transport of funds in the sense that agricultural pharmacies should do this, and we have not, in parallel, committed the end consumers they will keep records. We must not forget that one asset purchased in Zagreb does not have to be spent in Zagreb or purchased in Virovitica must not be spent there, and it is registered in the pharmacy there, it is important, and what this law really highlights, and what is very important, is that under the traffic it includes the application of funds where certain conditions regarding education and vocational training must be met. I think that this law does not cover the problem of the training of our end-users, I mean farmers, or producers. In the West, it may not be so important in Western regulation, since it is prescribed that only one who has the least professional equipment, agricultural equipment, or who has completed the appropriate agricultural school can produce it. Unfortunately, we have manufacturers, let no one be offended, who don't even have a finished or elementary school and there's quite the same important training of our peasants who will have to do it or not, keep a record of the funds they will spend, of the concentration they spend, of the time they spent, precisely so that the final producer at the given moment can see if they've been respected and normally how much a certain agricultural product contains a residual because we're still not enough on our markets to follow the final product. I'm glad when we say that our agriculture is primarily preserved, or doesn't spend a lot of protection, that we have healthy under quotes, because all production is healthy, healthy products in the markets. But I would really like to see that behind that emphasis "hello" are also analyses that will really respond to how much pesticide residues are in such food. I believe that many would be amazed, and I'm glad that here you are also predicting funds for a larger number of analyses, namely that food must be far more controlled. It is also positive that we have finally started talking here about the serious control of the device or the applicator of the protective means, because unfortunately the sprinklers and all the mechanisms used in our agriculture are outdated, unquality and we really have an unquality application, i.e. a dose per hectare or any unit of surface, where we are again causing pollution on the one hand, pollution of groundwater, but also incorrect use, i.e. using such applicators normally that and the concentrations used can also be harmful to human health and normal animal health if they consume. What I see equally positively in this law, that finally for protection and use of funds will become only one ministry which will certainly be more able to control and coordinate both the placing of funds on the market and the use, and even more positively, I estimate that at last all jobs related to the protection of agricultural products, namely the use of pesticides, will control one commission instead of three that will certainly result in better work, but certainly better quality products that appear on the market. So I think, I would like the secretary to answer me if I missed this segment of pesticide education, if not because of the country's specificity, it would be good to take care of it, because I say we have producers and we'll have for a long time to have those who need it and we'll have to introduce a way to educate and introduce people with pesticides that pose a great health risk, and I think that unlike the Western countries that I say regulate it through mandatory professional equipment and work in agriculture, we need to regulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37195	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want a final review? State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's only in relation to Article 9, so where education is talked about. So we will continue to follow the directives and sub-directories of the European Union, so in terms of education, where exactly, so the minister will prescribe both the volume and the content and the way of education, and we have delayed this article, therefore on 1.1.2009. And as for Article 12, if you haven't taken the amendment, we'll accept it and we'll go with the amendment to the government. ... Then we'll take the amendment to the government, because it's acceptable for us. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37197	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal Law on plant protection, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number.298. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 97 votes in favour and five abstentions, the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37200	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The final proposal of the Nature Protection Act was drawn up by respecting the observations and proposals made on the occasion of the first reading of the Law and indeed many of your proposals are contained in the final proposal. We also explained those we could not include, and mostly because some of the solutions offered were already included in some other provisions or because of the contents of the directives and international contracts ratified by the Republic of Croatia. Let me just point out the most important improvements in this final proposal compared to the current law. First, the applicable Nature Protection Act, regardless of its adoption in 2003 and the good part in line with the European acquis, envisioned the adoption of 90 sublegal acts. This means that this Law, regardless of what was adopted, would in fact never have been fully implemented, given the number of sublegal acts it was intended to bring. The area of nature protection was covered by 64 sublaws. In this final proposal, we have managed to bring the number of sublegal acts all together to 17 which will be more detailed, precisely respecting the most important part of the European acquis. The second big difference between the existing Law is in the fact that the existing Law gives the infringement procedure in part to the competent ministry. This means, in this case, the Ministry of Culture, which is neither human or able to carry out misdemeanours, in particular those urgent when offenders are foreigners or in some other situations where it is necessary to do so in an urgent and shortened procedure. In the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Nature, infringement proceedings shall be returned to the jurisdiction of infringement courts. Also in the proposed Law, we tried to establish as clearly as possible how to manage protected areas in order to enable the adoption of management plans, as well as the Internal Order Regulation, and thus in a more transparent manner and in a very public procedure, so that citizens, therefore local self-government, can achieve mechanisms to protect such a protected area. It also improves the provisions relating to the use of natural goods. Especially because protected areas are often used in tourism, and we have also tried to make these provisions better. There's so much for the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37201	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Legislative, European integration, tourism, spatial planning and environmental protection? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative Marko Širac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37202	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The legislative legal tradition in the area of nature protection in our country has been going on for many years. Among the first countries in Europe, Croatia has legislatively regulated the protection of natural heritage, and in particular the way of declaring protected parts of nature. Thanks to its geographical location, the divorce of relief, climate, geological, hydrological, meteorological opportunities, the Republic of Croatia is highlighted by the diversity of ecological systems and habitats of plants, animals and mushrooms. Given the historical and economic circumstances, local traditions of space use have developed that have contributed to the richness of landscape diversity. Compared to the state of the ecological systems in most European Union countries, our country is characterized by a high degree of conservation of nature. So far, 9.9% of national territory and certain species of plant and animal species have been protected through 8 categories of space protection. In one category of protection are classified national park, nature park, strict reservation, special reservation, park forest, monument of nature, monument of park architecture and protected landscape. Some protected parts of nature about our homeland also enjoy international protection as extremely valuable spaces. So Plitvice Lakes National Park is listed in UNESCO World Heritage List. ... the list of the Convention on Wetlands is entered in the Parks Kopački rit and Lonjsko polje, the Black Mlaka Unitological Reserve, and the lower Neretva stream, and the Velebit Mountain has been introduced into UNESCO's international biosphere reserve network. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, 481 spatial buildings are protected in Croatia, and another 30 are in the process of declaration, so that about 14% of state space will be protected. To consider whether to continue over 14% to protect the premises of the Republic of Croatia because each protection carries both certain obligations and restrictions. In addition to protected areas, 781 species of plants, mushrooms and animals are protected, as well as all wild species living in national parks, strict special reserves and all cave fauna. The Republic of Croatia has accepted 9 international agreements in the area of nature protection. This has provided quality assumptions for the protection of natural values from global importance, as well as appropriate conditions for the protection of natural heritage against national importance. The 2000 Nature Protection Act regulates the area of nature protection in a way that is pre-standardized. Especially in terms of the adoption of new sublaws. In accordance with our commitments, international contracts are obliged to make appropriate changes to the current Law on the Protection of Nature of 2003 and to regulate all issues referred to by the directives, regulations and protocols of the European Union. The protection of certain areas is a fundamental method of preserving biodiversity. Therefore, the Proposer has regulated this Law a system of protection and full conservation of nature and its values on the new basis set by the Rio Convention on Biological Variety in 1992. The nature protection activity is expanded to preserve the overall biodiversity and landscape diversity and ensure sustainable use of natural resources, and to the benefit of the present and future generations. The law provides assumptions for the integration of protection and sustainable use of nature to all relevant sectors and cross-sectoral regulations, plans, programmes and strategies. The proposer of this final bill points out that the observations and the proposal for a law on the protection of nature in the first reading carefully considered and incorporated most of it in the text of the final draft law. However, we stand at the point of view that certain provisions still need to be complemented or amended in order to comply with the provisions of other laws that bring the sector closer to them and the issue of nature protection, such as the Law on Forests, Waters, the Law on Agricultural Land, the law on spatial regulation and other laws. We also support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's intention to issue acts in the ministries, simplify and time-consuming the demands of citizens and legal persons within the appropriate time-limit, and to ensure that these efforts are implemented and in this law the needs of conjecture are ensured. Therefore, we will base Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall submit several amendments to which these issues are settled. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community stands at the view that the proposed law has well regulated the system of protection and full conservation of nature and its values in the Republic of Croatia and supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37203	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, Honored Representative Zeljko Pavlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37204	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the Ministry. Here, let me refer on behalf of the IDS Club to the Final Proposal for a Nature Protection Act. The IDS Club as well as the IMF, the Međimurje Democratic Alliance is certainly in the interest of passing a law that will therefore protect our environment to the greatest extent possible. It also says in Article 2 that nature and natural values are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoy its special protection for several strategic reasons. The first place is to preserve the health and life of people, the second place is to use the economic potential that environmental protection also provides, because our national parks, protected areas are a very attractive tourist product that we can and must present in Europe and the world and they have a very large visitation, we know how much visitation our national parks are and therefore we must raise the level of protection of our environment. What we have most observations about is Article 35, and it's about nature operations, and there's actually the greatest pressure on nature, by exploiting different natural resources, by building electricity facilities, etc., it's affecting nature, so to a large extent where natural balance on a rope or wider space can be disrupted. Therefore, our interest, therefore, would be of great interest to the entire Croatian public to include the public in this process. What is our situation on the ground, so that only when the works on an object or in an exploitation of a particular area are we encountering a public reaction, and I will explain it a little later. In particular, what we propose will therefore be made an amendment to add, in Article 36, an item which will mean the planned procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to allow the Government to carry out the planned procedure with a preliminary public debate. Therefore, paragraphs 1 and 2 refer to planned procedures in nature which are or are not covered by an environmental impact assessment. Article 3 discusses that the minister will inform the public, it is said that for procedures for which it is mandatory... for nature, content, time limit and method of determining the acceptability of nature procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Methods of notifying the public and how to calculate guarantees for the removal of possible consequences on nature that they will prescribe a minister by regulation with the prior consent of the head of the central authority of the State Administration for environmental protection tasks. So until this stage the public is involved in this way that they will be notified only when it's actually all over. It is only in Article 37(2) that the exception is therefore to the effect that the Government may grant authorisation to conduct the planned procedure with a preliminary public hearing only in cases where the planned procedure is not acceptable for nature due to public interest, including that of an economic and social nature, or because of the lack of other suitable solutions, that only the Government may issue a permit to conduct the planned procedure with a preliminary public hearing. We should therefore do so in Article 36 and the public should therefore be involved in the overall process as much as possible. What's happening to us in the field, for example. We have a case of possible construction of the Novo Virje hydropower plant in Koprivnica-križevci County, whose influence was also on the Međimurje County, is therefore about a lake of 25 km long and a width of approximately 650 meters, thus jeopardising or thus changing the 22 km flow of the Drava River with a suitable landscape. This hydropower plant was included in the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia but therefore no debate was held on the ground, normally what we have, we have a reaction to the public, we have a reaction of associations, counties and municipalities, we have a launch of different petitions, so this petition has been carried out over the past half of the year, and it seems to me that, however, the final result has been to give up the construction of the new power plant on Drava. A similar case is from works on the upper Drava River where water-technical works are under way to destroy approximately 30 km of natural river flow with belonging habitats and species. In fact, due to the intensive extraction of gravel from the river for the construction of the highway, the rest of the natural parts of the river are being dug into the canals, i.e. in a series of so-called. flow lakes separated by stone thresholds. The shores of newly excavated water surfaces are paved by stone blocks, and the surrounding area is transformed into roads for the transport of gravel. ... They are cut off from the riverbed, and the gravel from the plow is driven to the highway construction site. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the site of the present pustules, the excavated stream lakes remain. One of the most visible adverse consequences of these works is the rapid drying and degradation of coastal flood forests in the midst of the fall of river and groundwater levels, which is due to the huge quantities of gravel extracted. These works will cause the overall ecological degradation of the upper part of Drava in Croatia and make it impossible to revitalise habitats and species. So here we are also brought before the final act. Neither associations nor units of local or regional self-government were therefore notified, the exploitation continues, so the public was not involved. We do not think that this is a good way, therefore, and that by changing Article 6 the public must get as much involved in this process as possible. What we have an observation, it was the same observation in the first reading, and we will also try to change it by amendment. This is that the ministry determines the compensation conditions and that the cash amount on behalf of the compensation is to be paid in favour of the state budget. We are therefore strongly against it, so we believe that if it is already going to work in some space that compensation must be paid at the expense of the county, the city or the municipalities that remain without their space and the question of whether they will ever be able to return these funds to them through the state budget. It'll be so... These funds are likely to be sent elsewhere so that we, with the amendment, will seek to change this and move the funds towards the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we would like to warn further is that only the Ministry has more control over the implementation of the Nature Protection Act because, for example, it must not happen to us, as was unfortunately in my County of Međimurje where, in 2002, a significant landscape of the Mura River was declared to be one of the lowest forms of protection at least we will go to the nature park that the new law in 2003 was required to establish a public institution for the management of the above protected parts of nature within a year. It's been over a year and a half. Unfortunately, until today, this has not been done without any consequences for those who should have done so so that we think that the ministry should have a stronger impact on law enforcement, i.e. In order for the authorities of the state administration in the counties to agree and the administration to which it would be intended to protect the environment, i.e. to enforce this law. Therefore, with these remarks, we generally support this law in order to protect our environment as best and quality, but we will see whether this law will accept what will depend on the adoption of the amendments that we propose tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37205	Thank you very much. SDP club respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37206	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! The final proposal of the Nature Protection Act is before us. I am the law as we have seen it does not bring any special newspapers into the system to protect Croatia's natural wealth which is actually good because this system is set on good grounds. This is especially due to some announcements that the new law should liberalise the protection system in protected areas in which these intentions would allow for a greater scope of economic and in-service procedures. Fortunately, there are no amendments in the final draft of the law, although some changes could be made because I am afraid that maintaining the existing status quo will be an additional argument for refusing to declare new protected areas and will remain to see whether the main intention of the promoter will simplify some legal norms allow for better implementation in practice. The first reading of this law was held some half a year ago and then by all clubs and parliamentary representatives was supported by better, better quality and more comprehensive protection of natural values and I can say the natural beauty of this country. However, it did not take long for us to give up in this same assembly that there is often a huge difference between words and deeds and that often when something concrete needs to be done in accordance with the interest of the wider community, we give up because this interest is overshadowed by some personal or group interest. Of course, we're talking about the proposal for a law declaring the Kopački butt National Park two months ago I don't know what it is. Although most clubs in a very good debate with a lot of well-intentioned suggestions and suggestions were to make this the most preserved and significant floodous area of the Danube River throughout Central Europe an additional degree of protection and thus become the first national park in the continental part of Croatia and create assumptions that Kopački rit is also the most significant tourist destination of Slavonia, it did not happen because of the will of the majority. Moreover, we could hear it from parliamentary representatives from Slavonia that it was actually a simple swamp. It won't take long to make it appear so that the requirements for drying it out are also reported because it really is a curiosity when an environmental association otherwise spokesmen of interest of some economic and political entities who are against the declaration of Kopački rita national park back about ten days requires the treatment of mosquitoes and in Kopački rit including a protected zoo reserve. In order to avoid confusion from Vukovar alone from the Danube and it's really too mild to say that I don't like mosquitoes but I think Prime Minister Sanader himself said that the problem is still in us and our organisation or disorganization because for example, let's take a Miami in Florida surrounded by thousands of kilometers of square swamps. In Florida, the Everglades National Park is the size of 6 thousand and 100 km square miles, which is made up of endless swamps and which is part of UNESCO's world heritage. So if Miami and other cities in Florida surrounded by swamps can function normally, the question arises with all the differences between us and them that our cities and places along the Danube, Drava or Sava cannot solve this problem. But about that maybe another time more. At that time, in the debate as a key argument why the Kopački ass does not declare it a national park, the Government said any economic activity should be suspended in this case. That just wasn't right. I'm using this opportunity to see again what it says in the law of the current but also in the future that we're going to adopt because there are no important reasons in them, and I think it's a key part of this law. Thus, in Article 11(3), (4) and (5) of this final draft of the law, I quote: "In the national park, actions and activities are allowed which do not endanger the originality of nature. Economic use of natural goods is prohibited in the national park. In the national park, it is allowed to carry out catering and recreational activities that are in the role of visiting and viewing, as well as to deal with agriculture, fishing and crafts in a traditional manner in accordance with the provisions of this law." So it's not exactly how the government claimed at the time. I don't know why the bill dropped, I think it could have stayed, that it was allowed in the national park and the economic activities carried out in that area until it was declared. Protecting a special reserve or park of nature, I think it's adequately prescribed from the existing law. Knowing the situation in Kopački rit is the only problem to continue with the fact that in the national park that if it was declared it would not be allowed to remember forests and hunt as the primary economic activity on which Croatia would not lose anything because the expansion of forests and hunting in this area is also a continuous loss. On the contrary, the forest profession would have its hands full to preserve and further fertilize the Kopački rit. After the adoption of this new Nature Protection Act, I personally do not see the reason why the Government does not refer itself to the procedure of a proposal to declare the Kopački rita national park even though it is either mainly or entirely within the borders of the existing ZOOO reserve, because it would not put anyone's rights at risk. However, if the problems of implementing the Nature Protection Act on the route of economic operators, the administration of national parks or parks of nature, the local population, the competent ministry and other state bodies, I took only some of the actors present only in Kopački rit, it would be excellent. Unfortunately, it's not like that. We can have great laws, but if there's no will and determination to carry them out, it won't do them any good. We can go in order, we will get a new law, we will be able to say that we have also brought this significant law into line with the legislation of the European Union, but whether it will contribute to, say, the Vran Lake, let's start from it, stop destroying. If we have the political will to protect this lake and the bird fund on it, at the same time allowing the local population to benefit from it, especially the tourist nature. Either we want to protect the exceptional natural value of Mount Biokovo or we will allow it to devastate without valid permits, not only the tunnel but also the ski resorts as some want and I don't know what not. Can this Law and its better implementation prevent constant conflicts between the administration of national parks or parks of nature, and let's say the Croatian forests. In some areas this conflict is extremely present, which is not good. Also whether there is a willingness in the competent authorities to solve the problem... savages in Krk, Cres and other islands or we wait for him to escalate even though the problem is more related to the previous law under discussion, I mean the law on hunting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are just some of the problems that are present today that we can follow in the media and when we talk about protecting nature we can't not mention them. The only question is, is there any willingness to solve them? And before I try to answer, let's look at the example of Plitvice Lakes National Park of that natural jewel of Croatia. The administration of the national park that ran the park in the '90s left me to recall the terrible financial dubiousness of some 60 million German marks at the time. Since 2001, the new administration has managed to resuscitate them and is starting to do positive business for the first time in the history of the park with no small income, 6.5 million kuna. Last year, the administration was replaced by the current government and the worst for the national park's leaders is the return of those who have already ruined it. At least what we expect from the ministry, i.e. It's from the Secretary of State to direct... And to check what money belongs to the national park is being spent today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of such a policy of the ministry, i.e. the current authorities and the answer to the question whether we want to solve existing problems, I am afraid it is negative. I repeat the laws can be good, but they're not worth anything unless they're implemented. In any case, to conclude this Nature Protection Act will be a good foundation for all those who consider nature protection and natural values to be of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that even in this case, when it comes to the implementation of this Law, national interests must be in front of individual or group interest regardless of who it was. Clearly, if we want good for Croatia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37207	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37208	Honored Mr. Vice President, State Secretary colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me look back on behalf of the HSS Club with a few words on the final proposal of the Nature Protection Act. When we talk about nature protection, first of all, we need to look first at how many protected areas we have in the Republic of Croatia today. Well it is already close to 10% of the area with the facilities that are protected, when we add that we still have one larger percentage of areas that are not available due to the mining, which is about 10 or 9, something, and this should be added to a part of the area that is protected from the management of the Croatian forest, given that Croatian forests have an ecological certificate... in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the management of this certificate is about 80,000 hectares of surfaces that are further protected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we add it all together, then we see that one significant part of the surface in Croatia is protected for whatever reason and not to master it. In Article 11 of this Act, paragraph 4, the following reads: "In the national park, the economic use of natural goods is prohibited.". And I would ask myself first then all of us here if we should allow ourselves to, and whether it is justified not to lord in protected objects when it comes to a particular phenomenon of the forest. I don't think we can afford it because it's proven today in scientific, professional, forest practice that the best conditions of protection are precisely natural deforestation. And that is why Croatian forests have today an international certificate and I don't think they should have such provisions in the bill that they should not be managed. Especially if we look at the example of Austria, Hungary and other countries in the European Union that are lords and protected objects, there are those, meaning... where full protection but in this second part is mastered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why I think it is necessary for us in this part not to be so strict in procedures, because it is obvious that in protected areas it must also be managed in a certain way. Furthermore, when we talk about articles 21 which say that the law does not oblige the motion to declare protected parts of nature to be in line with the programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, I think it is essential, above all, that the proposer when he wants to protect a new area is first in line with the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia which we have adopted here, rather than that these protections are resolved in a slow manner and in certain parts without consent first with the basic document that remains here in this House. Also for the declaration of national parks, nature parks, strict and special reserves, it is not envisaged to obtain prior consent from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy which is relevant to parts of these programmes. I think it is necessary for the ministries to coordinate with each other in that part and that the resolution ministry for a particular area must be included in the declaration of certain parts. Also, Article 70, paragraph 2 is much more restrictive compared to the current law governing the implementation of nature protection in protected areas, and I think that we should first and foremost be excluded, to exclude objects that occur and procedures in nature that occur for the purpose of building forest management facilities, which serve as fire protection because, for example, if we left this proposal in Article 70, then we would not be able to operate fire-fighting averages in the coast that we need today. We know that fire protection depends on exactly how many roads we will be able to get to where there can be a fire and how we will be able to prevent it. The Management Plan for the protected area in Articles 80 and 81 should also be in line with the Spatial Plan of the area of specific characteristics in the article, in Article 69. In Article 116, I believe that, for the last time, I have spoken of this, but although many of the items set out in our examples in this final proposal have been agreed in Article 116, paragraph 5, the legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia have been deprived of the right to compensation for restrictions on real estate management. This has been deleted and I don't think it's a good thing that it's practically today to have a certain declaration of the area that the legal persons who ruled the area lose some of their assets, and they've invested significant funds in it without being adequate, not adequately compensated. In Article 72, I also think it is necessary to add one of the items which, in paragraph 1, should be read as to whether public institutions or state-owned public bodies which already govern that area are clearly subject to the conditions and regulations of this law. In that part, a legal person should clearly develop a management plan for a protected area. Article 125 concerning prior consent shall introduce the obligation of the Ministry of Culture to all management plans of economic goods. This is quite restrictive and I personally think that according to Article 16 of the applicable law, which is now in force, this provision did not apply to all surfaces but only where they exist in protected areas, and now it has practically transferred to the whole area. When we talk about certain items in the law itself, then I have to say that some, some of the items are not clearly defined so that, in the list of certain areas, let's say when we talk about a regional park, when we want to compare it to a park of nature, I have to admit that I don't really see the difference in this bill. Which is by law a regional park, which is a park of nature. He's basically the same and in our terms if we're going to identify the region with the county then I don't know, I don't think that the county can say that it's a region so in that part I'd like us to explain in more detail what is the basic and important difference between those two concepts in the law? Furthermore, certain remarks I said were already made in the first reading they were partly agreed but there are still certain moments that I think we may not have worked hard enough, and there is, above all, a solution to the relationship between the owner and the authorised, land rights on the one hand that protects clearly and promotes their values of parts of nature, and then to those owners and authorities are limited by a certain Constitution of guaranteed entrepreneurial freedom and compensation rights that arises when something is declared. These measures, I think, should still be brought into line with the applicable laws that have been in force so far, and not that we have delegated some of these laws, some of the powers and rights that we have and even in the Constitution itself. Also, when we talk about the basic phenomenon of the forest, don't mind me, but as a forester, I have something to say about it. Since we have so far been in the management of Croatian forests and 200 here are 40 years of organised forestry in the Republic of Croatia, we have brought about the fact that we have forests with which we can boast, and we also have an international recognition of an ecological certificate that no country in Europe has, then I think that it is not only the purpose of protecting nature to declare something and that there is no longer one employed in a public institution, employed or any forestkeeper. It is illogical for me that we have done so in some public institutions that although there are, in these institutions there are large areas under the forest, and that we have not hired foresters or agronomists or veterinarians on those parts, but some other experts do so. I don't think it's right and things like that shouldn't stretch through the law. And I'm especially saying I'm sensitive to where the basic phenomenon of the forest is that certain public institutions are now being set up at the expense of the state budget, and so far they've been managed without the cost of the state, I'd practically say. In that part of the debate, I will also propose some of the amendments that I ask the motionary to consider before the vote itself, which are well-intentioned and which point to a certain problem that I was talking about here today. The HSS Club will support a clear proposal for this law if our amendments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37209	Thank you very much. Before moving to an individual debate, State Secretary of the Culture Ministry Mr. Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also thank the clubs for supporting the final bill. And let me just say that as far as this example of Plitvice Lakes was concerned, it was no shift but a regular re-election as regards changes in management and also the mention of debts arising from capital investments in defence, since we know during the Homeland War that this area went through. And as for these allegations by the esteemed representative of Ledinsky about the question about the distinction between the regional park and nature park, let me point out that it's different, the difference between who declares the area? That it is a classification taken from therefore global regulation and that it is different protection regimes. Namely, the regional park declares the county, it is about the specificities of the region, while nature park has another regime. It's also very nice to stand up for the protection of the forest. But when it comes to protected areas in the Republic of Croatia and governance in these protected areas, then it is very different natural phenomena. It is not only a forest as a protected phenomenon but a plant and animal world, so we also have a number of reservations that need to be implemented in these areas, where really high professional protection measures should be implemented. Following this, there are no objections concerning the management of protected areas, so that it might be more rational for existing state organisations such as the Croatian Forests to do so already. This may be more rational, but it would certainly not be at the level of what provides a specialised public institution adapted to the phenomenon it protects in such an area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37211	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. The first is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, let me say that of course we need the Nature Protection Act, but the second thing is whether we should change it as often as we do. And we really do it often, so it turns out that Croatia has no concept in nature protection and has often passed laws. What would it mean to protect nature? As I understand it, and I think I understand it a little bit wider than protecting the area of national parks, protecting nature parks or something else. For me, nature protection also means ensuring sustainable development. And since sustainable development when looked at the Convention and the protocol signed and ratified by the Republic of Croatia, then it should mean that nature protection is actually a common concern for our common future. In other words, the protection of nature implies complex creation of conditions in the area for sustainable development, but also for the benefit of the current generation of citizens and future generations of citizens, so that neither current nor future suffers as far as development is concerned. However, as presented by the Republic of Croatia, we are presenting nature protection as a formal act. We do not create conditions for development and it is proof that the Republic of Croatia does not predict, through this law, the rapid adoption of plans for any spatial, development or agricultural, economic, which will be based on nature protection as a sustainable development. We in Croatia have not yet strategically defined where organic production of agricultural, conventional agricultural production will be organised, and we certainly have such areas. In Croatia, we are not talking about the protection of similar areas and we are talking about water as the strategic maybe the most important resource in the future. We still have, fortunately, thank God we can drink water from taps. But this law does not solve the problem of water protection in the near future or in the future. Because he also predicts the adoption of plans by segments. He should provide for education, economic policy, spatial planning, strategic approach as a whole, so we can say that the system is measures that this is a roof law, the basic law that provides for this law to be passed. And there's no such thing in this law. How's that in practice? Should we stress here what a real situation it is like to dig up gravel or other raw materials in Croatia? Is an excavation taken into a state that would require a current law after the completion of the exploitation? Well, we all know that's not true. So we act like legal optimists, normative optimists. We pass the law and we think we'll solve the problem. We won't solve the problem. Well, this law itself speaks of procedures in nature and the resolution of these procedures, Articles 35 and 38, and ultimately does not discuss this issue through the entire text of the law. If we expect more from this law, I think we should, to preserve the comparative advantages in nature that Croatia has in relation to neighbouring countries or countries of the European Union, and this should be the meaning of every law because it is a comparative advantage of the sustainable development of Croatian society, then we should really know how the spatial plan Like will solve the issue of water protection and eco-production. Or at least this law would have to indicate areas that would be protected by roof law. Undercover law. Of course, the spatial plan, the plan for agricultural production or the plan for the use of agricultural land or forest land will make it specific and far more precise. But I didn’t think that it would be possible to solve all this but it was very important to point out. Therefore, the law must enable sustainable development, ensure the comparative advantages of the Republic of Croatia in combating competitiveness with other economies and other societies, achieve these advantages, ensure landscapes, provide instruments to the state that those who use or enter into the nature of the doors are eligible and pay a certain price for it. We are all responsible for the future, but we are not all in the same position and in the present. Therefore, I think that the measures provided for by this law are insufficiently precise and insufficiently responsible. But there's no better, so we'll vote for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37213	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37214	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me just say right away that there are actually a few basic issues that are being raised. Of course, it is very interesting when it comes from the thesis that it is not necessary to develop in this law, and in some others, it would be appropriate to develop the provisions of the international conventions that we have ratified because they are an integral part of the internal legal order. That's right. But there's something else that's problematic about it. That often the conventions themselves form and contain describing norms, referring to norms, norms of declaratory content, etc. which needs to be developed in domestic legislation. And I would like to remind you that in this respect this law is not sufficiently detailed in relation to the conventions even to which it is called, in particular the Convention on the Protection of Nature and Cross-border Cooperation, etc. etc. The second is also important, this law becomes a roof law and is a roof law in the system, the legal system of the Republic of Croatia should be in line with it and with the Constitution. It is not necessary to use a large terminology that is in the field of nature protection and protected... but it could be used. [[You don't understand.]] Now in such a situation if such a roof law is frequently changed, it causes great costs in one country related to the modification and addition and harmonisation of laws that must be harmonised with it on one hand or if we do not or wish to avoid these costs, we do not normally comply with those laws. The illustrations work. We are now discussing the Law of Hunting, the Law of the Forests, and the question arises to what extent these two laws are in line with this final bill of law that we are discussing in the House. In particular, when it comes to this, it is necessary to take into account the additional Water Management Act, the Water Act, the Mining Act, or mining and mineral raw materials, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Marine and freshwater Fisheries, and then I do not know, for example, the regulation of our Ministry of Coast Protection, etc. etc. So this makes up an entire area of law that needs to be properly taken into account and that needs to be formally harmonised. It's not a formal legal situation, it's a third act, actually I say first. For the sake of knowledge and skills, find a balance between the need for natural values that are not only the heritage of those who live here but also generations that will come behind us but also of the entire and international community, and that at the same time we can put it into a function of sustainable development for the sake of man's breakthrough and interest in the ultimate line. Because nothing else can be put absolutely under some kind of bell that is not in function and economic and social development. And in this respect, for example, strict reserves in the nature of things will be less and less independent of the whole of which will be exclusively a special institution that will now manage something that it actually serves for the purpose of scientific study. So this should be left to the scientific institutions to do this, not to form a special institution. But what will be far more interesting, to open up the debate that strict reserves can be based on a particular part of the nature park or national park area where certain or where special protections are taking place... and life form. [[You don't understand.]] And that's ultimately a constitutional obligation. Only exceptionally under Article 50. The Constitution may fully restrict ownership, i.e. to confiscate property, but the days must also be provided for a market fee. In paragraph 2 of the same article, we are talking about limiting entrepreneurial freedom and ownership of course, in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the defence of the country, and now what is particularly important from the aspect of this law on the protection of nature, the human environment and human health. In addition to that provision, however, there is a provision in Article 69. The constitution that says everyone has the right to a healthy life, the state provides conditions for a healthy environment, and everyone is obliged as part of their powers and activities to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature and the human environment. And now you see when those two provisions are paragraph 2 of Article 69. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Constitution can then restrict entrepreneurial freedom and ownership powers and, at the same time, impose a obligation on those who carry out certain economic and business activities to protect nature and the human environment for real sustainable development, but can therefore withdraw certain economic benefits under these conditions and thus... Of course, in such relationships everyone must be in a position to redecorate equally. [[You don't understand.]] It seems to me with a long reserve that we haven't been able to reach that measure yet. If you look at it very precisely, you will notice that even the proponent or the authors of the law admit it in a certain way. How? In the middle of the road. For example, in Article 70, when it comes to the protected area, it is then referred to as the protection measures referred to in paragraph 1, of course I am talking about paragraph 2 of Article 70, which refers to a prohibition or restriction. See, and paragraph 2 of Article 50 speaks about the restrictions and the paragraph 2 of Article 69 on obligations. Therefore, when you look at this aspect, it is obvious that the legislator or the authors of the law failed to reach a balance and shifted the responsibility and burden of responsibility to a much lower level, and I also argue much less the possibility of specialist knowledge and knowledge to address this quality through a spatial plan. I don't think that's good. Because what's gonna happen? You will actually have similar properties, protected properties in similar protected areas, national parks or parks of nature or national parks, or special reservations in the country, and that you will be in different areas of these same parks compared to other parks differently protected... And he's got it in practice right now. [[You don't understand.]] And that is why I believe that here, however, you should give basic legal criteria or elements that should be worked out as well as not only traditional values, but when you put traditional fishing you cannot rule out, for example, in national hunting parks, and the addition of the craft is not going. The second question is under what conditions in the national park and when it is possible to achieve and carry out such a hunt, of course always leading to the fundamental principle that is written here whether, not to harm protected properties, values and, of course, their endangerment. Therefore, if we look at this aspect, then we will come up with something that is quite normal everywhere in the world, that there are national parks, that no problem is that certain activities are not only tourist and catering but also traditional values can perform and achieve huge economic benefits that are primarily or profit that can thus be used as economic gain but are used for maintenance, development, etc. the national park, while at the same time achieving a balance on protected goods. Unfortunately, here we often go with that thesis that needs to be ruled out rather than turned on, and I advocate this part of the other to include certain values and their protection and for the sake of sustainable development. It seems to me that we need more time to do it and do it in that part. Of course, I must say the same so that we should consider what is the issue of an influential area. We have indicated it here in Article 23(2) that it is possible in the protected area to establish an influential area and it is indicated and no longer exists, but it would be very important, very important to determine what is meant when it is thought of as an "impact area". Oh, he's thinking about these protected properties. It is part of the area that affects the development and maintenance of protected properties not only of their habitats and maintenance but also of their immigration areas related to that area. And the third, and one more thing to point out, is the issue of international cooperation, i.e. the integration of protected areas with neighbouring areas of other countries. Here it is indicated that, of course, it is parallel to the authorities and bodies of those countries, but the fact is next. We did not want to open the issue of constitutional article 140, because in one part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia we can also transfer part of the sovereignty, i.e. the power common, is determined, not only by the Republic of Croatia but also by the other. Therefore, it is not enough by law to open such an option but should at least indicate here that such an agreement on such cooperation is necessary and necessary. Among other things, because of this influential area. E such an agreement should at least come to the consent of the Croatian Parliament because it is only the Parliament that can protect such areas. That's why I think it would be a good idea to stop by and pass this bill. So, not that the Final Proposal is withdrawn from the procedure or to delay, but rather to postpone it for a vote, perhaps a week, two days, and that the Proposer in some things is still doing so with several of his amendments. And that in a week or two, we can agree on that part. That's number one. And number two, let's once again see a little debate about the Law on the Forests and the Hunting Law that is very important for this Law because those two laws should be harmonised and regulated with this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37215	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Ivana Judge-Thrakostane's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will take a quick look back, of course, affirmatively according to this Law that we have already discussed in the first reading and which I consider to be, of course, an improvement from the one that has been in force since 2003. And I'm glad that a whole series of remarks in the first reading have been adopted. However, if we look at it in some way, then most of the objections were not adopted because the 50s that are here numbered 24 were accepted, 25 did not. It is personal to me, if I may say so, that one remark is not accepted, and that is that the cost incurred by the devastation of a particular area is not paid as compensation to the budget of the local self-government unit, whether it is a county or a city or a municipality, but must be paid into the state budget. Because I'm not quite sure that the explanation is acceptable until the end when it's said, therefore, that the state invests in protected areas no matter what it's called, it's true. But it will invest most in it, of course, of national importance or international, and less will invest in those of local importance such as that of regional park or nature park. What I realized about these two terms was also not clear to me, since I came from the Koprivnica-Crysing County, so where we have a number of areas. Come on, we also have a facility that takes care of protected areas. And this range of areas is the area around Drava, which belongs internationally along with the Republic of Hungary. Well then we have parks of nature, regional parks and landscapes and protected landscapes such as the Kalnik part, such as Djurdjevac sands as an indigenous area. So we have a series of such localities that we already have experience with. Still, residents living in the area have invested the most in these areas so far. And for that, here, I'm not very happy with the solution of that article. However, what I want to point out, no matter what law we have passed, and we are prone as a state to pre-normatizing all areas, no law will do what is essentially both this Law and purpose, therefore. To protect what we inherited, to preserve it, to benefit from it, or to recreational activities that can be carried out either by scientific research or by tourism. So, to show it to the world and to charge for it a fee that is otherwise charged in countries like us. And that enthusiasm that individuals have invested so far because every park and monument of culture has its own name and name in the first place. There's this enthusiast who's brought together people who love it, who know it and who's made it a valuable and wonderful piece of work. In this regard, I would like to say that we may also need a lot of education to protect the environment through and through teaching programs in schools of all degrees, as well as popularising the work of public institutions and all those involved. So let us further exploit it in that positive sense for future generations and for the Croatian state in the best direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37217	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37218	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a time when we may be 30 in the assembly just a very short one review of the Final Proposal of the Nature Protection Act. For more than 100 years, it has been a legislative tradition of ours, in Croats, to protect the area of nature. In 2003, the Nature Protection Act was also adopted, which was organised together with the arrangement of the area of genetically modified organisms. But it's actually two separate areas, and I'm sure these two substances should have been arranged separately as well, and in practice, that's how other countries do it. And in this context, it was also necessary to regulate this area so that legal norms were more obvious, to be enforceable in practice and to reduce the number of legal regulations which, on several occasions, were, in fact, disabling the effective application of this Law in practice. Croatia, we all know, stands out for the diversity of ecological systems and habitats and in the great wealth of plants, mushrooms and animals. It is also characterized by a high degree of conservation of nature and then the protection of biodiversity also involves the recording and preservation of all heritage varieties, plants and breeds in domestic and animal species. This is all a significant national cultural heritage because it has been invested in breeding and plants and these animals and in the efforts and knowledge of many generations. Of course combined with living conditions and climates where we are. Despite all this, however, there is no way to talk about any systematic concern for overall biodiversity. Even though some protected parts of the nature of the Republic of Croatia enjoy international protection as extremely valuable spaces such as the Plitvice Lakes National Park, Nature Parks Kopački rit and Lonjsko Polje, the Black Mlaka Reserve, the lower flow of the Neretva River and the Velebit Mountain. We in the Republic of Croatia have 481 spatial facilities, i.e. national parks, nature parks, reservation parks, forest parks, etc., and 30 such buildings are protected. If we know that the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia is 87 thousand 661 km square km and 56 thousand 594 km on land is then 9.83% or 5847.34 km square. The nature protection law also protects 780 species of mushrooms and animals and all wild species that dwell on national parks and special reserves such as all cave fauna. Croatia also ranks among the first few countries in Europe, given the rich biodiversity, so we know a total of 34 thousand plant, fungi and animal species and it is assumed to be one third registered. Croatia's coast is among the most beautiful and divorced in the Mediterranean and coastal mountains and islands, which are special ecological units, they stand out with numerous plant and animal endemics. I hope and believe that this law will ensure the compatibility of nature protection in Croatia with the protection of the nature of the countries of the European Union in accordance with both the regulations and the standards of the European Union. But we are not passing this Law because this E. mark stands in the end and not just because of the European Union. We bring it primarily because of ourselves, because of the richness of Croatia and its biodiversity, because of future generations to which we will leave it, we bring it for a healthy life, because of what is often withdrawn in the media under the syntagm of eco-tourism and eco-agriculturalism. So we also make it for the sake of keeping what God has given us and we humans have been entrenched so that our nature is truly unique, the product of our decisions here, in this sense, I will give my vote for this law, of course, with a request from the Proposer that all these amendments that our colleagues have given a good consideration and perhaps some more in place in this Law, because it is obvious that what Mrs. Trakostanec was saying about the funds that should be returned to the units of local self-government has its place and should be foreseen by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37219	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37220	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a second reading of the final proposal of the Nature Protection Act, which means that this House has already discussed it once, and that all comments and proposals have been submitted to the Proposer for the sake of agreeing and including them in this Final Proposal of the Law. In good faith and an analysis of that law, which shows that the applicant has accepted most of the proposals submitted to him and the observations from the first reading of the law in question, I propose the adoption of this Law for the following reasons. First, the proposed Law lays down the basic frameworks and principles of nature protection, ensuring the conservation of the biological and landscape diversity of the protection of valuable natural areas and endangered plant, fungi and animal wildlife as well as domesticated properties. Furthermore, the law in question provides protection and assumptions for the full conservation of nature, i.e. all kinds of biological and landscape diversity as well as sustainable use of natural resources. Although they are special laws, so-called. Sectoral laws such as the Law on Forests, Waters, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Hunting Law, the Law on freshwater fisheries and the Law on Marine Fisheries and others, the closer regulates certain issues of the areas implemented by the proposed Nature Protection Act are guaranteed to implement the general principles and objectives of the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity, as well as the full protection of nature in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, in the context of the European integration process, the strategic objective of nature protection policy in the Republic of Croatia is also to meet all necessary preconditions for meeting the international obligations provided for by the European Union. Compared to most European countries, Croatia is highlighted by the diversity of ecological systems and habitats that are reflected in the vast wealth and diversity of plants, mushrooms and animals. This wealth is also conditioned by Croatia's position on the basis of several biographic regions, divorce between reliefs, geological, pedological, hydrological and climate conditions, and this is also partly human influence. Therefore, compared with the state of the ecological systems of most other Central and Western European countries, Croatia is characterised by a high degree of conservation of nature. WE HOPE that the proposed law will continue to preserve that high degree. The proposed law will also ensure the compatibility of the protection of the entire nature in the Republic of Croatia with the protection of the nature of the countries of the European Union. As a consequence, all issues relating to the protection and preservation of overall biodiversity and landscape diversity are regulated in accordance with the regulations and standards of the European Union. The prescribed protection measures shall ensure the conditions for the reasonable use of natural resources on the sustainability principles for the welfare of the present and future generations. The third reason to support the adoption of this Act is a certified statement set out in the Proposal for this Law on compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The adoption of the proposed Law will achieve full and systematic protection of nature and not only of certain its values, which is the assumption and guarantee of the protection of nature and the environment throughout the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with what I propose, the adoption of the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37221	Thank you. It's Mrs. Jagoda Martic's turn for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is characterized by a high degree of conservation of nature, compared to most European countries, Croatia is highlighted by the diversity of ecological systems and habitats that are reflected in the great wealth and diversity of plant, fungi and animal species and subtypes. However, despite this invaluable wealth we have still cannot be talked about the systematic concern for overall biodiversity, we still do not have a complete list of flora and fauna in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The number of known species is more than double as the number of suspected species, this data indicates a low degree of research of Croatian flora, microflora and fauna, and the necessity of establishing and developing systematic research and monitoring of biodiversity. There is no doubt that given the natural values available to the Republic of Croatia it is necessary to establish a quality system of care for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity. In view of all said protection of nature and the environment, it is necessary to obtain a prestigious place in the development of society and sustainable management. That's exactly what we're trying to achieve with this bill of law that's ahead of us. I'd like to refer to some of the specifics of this law. For example, Article 37(2) reads: "Extremely if the planned procedure is not acceptable for nature due to public interest, including those of economic and social nature, etc." I think that we should more clearly specify what exactly is meant by the concept of public interest, otherwise I fear that the possibility of abuse and a variety of malfeasances is opened because, unfortunately, we witness daily the interests of capital that all our concerns for nature conservation and the environment come into second place and very quickly forget the basic principles of sustainable development. The protection of the sea in this bill pays very little attention. We all know the wealth and value of our Adriatic. As a result, I do not think it is good to regulate its protection as generally as it was done in Articles 52 and 53, so it is said: "the activities at sea must not be compromised, damaged or destroyed by marine habitats. The conservation of biodiversity must be ensured by implementing measures to preserve habitat types in a favourable state and by conservation measures." I think that this definition of articles that regulate protection must be too general and not sufficiently precise. I think this matter would be much better worked out in the old Nature Protection Act. It is also a pity that the proposal for this new law did not retain a provision prohibiting the placing on the market of harmful antivegetative polymer coatings based on tributyl tin in order to preserve the biodiversity of the sea. In fact, tributyl is thought to be one of the most toxic compounds that can reach the sea through human activity. As a result, many countries in Europe and the world have completely or partly banned the use of anti-investment numbers, which as an active component contain tributyl tin. Croatia not only does not have legislation that would regulate this area but there are no indications on the basis of which to conclude the situation of tributyl tin in our Adriatic. No study has been conducted on this issue to determine the zero state because the laboratories that should carry out these analyses are not adequately equipped. The Institute of Public Health of the Split-Dalmatia County, in collaboration with the Oceanographic Institute in Split, went into the realization of such a project but the apparatus at our disposal was inadequate and could not achieve the necessary sensitivity. And the purchase of appliances that would serve only for this kind of analysis was, of course, too expensive under the existing Croatian conditions. As a result, it was very important that the law prohibits the application of these compounds as foreign ships and yachts come to our marinas, their owners bring the necessary funds to maintain these yachts and in their home countries it is prohibited to use funds containing tributyl tin but is not prohibited to produce them. Besides, we don't even know what's in our sales. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I think there has been some mistake because Article 71(1) says that a public institution that manages the national park and nature park is established by the County Assembly or the City of Zagreb City Assembly. And Article 72(2) states that these public institutions are set up by the Republic of Croatia by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that in Article 71(1), a mistake was stolen, so I believe that this should be corrected. The Public Institute for the Management of Protected Areas shall be managed by the Administrative Council. The powers vested in the Administrative Council are high, so the Council is just bringing forward a management plan, an annual programme for the protection of maintenance, conservation, promotion and use of protected areas, a plan for the development of a public institution and an annual financial plan, etc. I don't want to pick up everything else. The Governing Council, therefore, has great responsibility and considerable powers. Therefore, the appointment of members of the Governing Council should primarily take into account the expertise and ability of these people to carry out such responsible tasks rather than to be a political similarity in the first place. Unfortunately, practice shows that often it is exactly the opposite. Political resemblance comes first and expertise and knowledge is far, far beyond that. We often witness irresponsibility and a superficial relationship to nature. Almost daily in our environment, we meet with the devastation of what is most beautiful and valuable and that is our nature. We forget that we on this planet are just passing travelers who we must find and leave to future generations. I wonder in what state we'll leave them with nature and we're all full of environmental and environmental concerns. Therefore, it is very important that the awareness and sensitisation of the entire society and of each member of the community be made unique in order to make the proper relationship and awareness of the need preserved and protected by nature an integral part of our behaviour. In this process, education and education play a key role and education from the earliest days of kindergarten through primary and secondary schools and beyond. In this respect, educational programmes should also be adapted. This is the only way we will raise generations whose proper relationship with nature will become an integral part of everyday behavior and action, meaning something normal and everyday, and not as something we will only remember when marking appropriate dates such as nature day or biodiversity day. It is necessary to develop awareness of the necessity of nature protection as one of the fundamental preconditions of sustainable development. Such awareness is particularly important in people who are in positions where decisions are made that directly or indirectly affect the state of nature. In that case, it could not happen that in the interests of capital all our concerns about the preservation of nature come to another end. On one example, in the example of St. Elijah’s tunnel through Bioco, I will try to illustrate in a few sentences what it may look like in practice. St. Elijah's tunnel passes through the Biokovo Nature Park. According to the Nature Protection Act for construction of buildings in the area of national park, special reservation, monuments of nature and nature, the Ministry issues the conditions of nature protection in the process of issuing a local permit. For the mentioned tunnel, a location permit was issued by the Office of State Administration of the Split-Dalmatia County Exhibition in Imotski in mid-December 2004. The document shows that there are no conditions for nature protection. To my question addressed to the Ministry of Nature Protection to answer whether they gave me consent to the location and construction permit for the construction of the mentioned building, the Vice-President of the Government of Mrs. Kosor, quote: "The Ministry of Culture, the Nature Protection Department has not issued the conditions of nature protection for the construction of St. Elijah's tunnel." Then I quote her answer: "The Office of the State Administration in Split-Dalmatia County, the Office for Spatial Planning, Environmental Protection and Property-Legal Affairs, Imotski provided a request to determine the conditions of nature protection as part of the process of issuing the location permit but without the necessary project documentation from which the location of the planned tunnel and other necessary elements would be visible, and it was impossible to establish the conditions of nature protection. A letter from the Nature Protection Authority from 21 October 2003 requested the completion and delivery of the necessary documentation which has not been delivered so far." Not to mention, in that location's permit, the publisher called for an old Nature Protection Act that expired in 2003 when the new one came into force. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction calls the old name even though we know that this government has restructured the ministries. Despite all these failures and violations of the laws, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction gives consent to such a radically issued locational permit. So much for the functioning of the rule of law and respect of the law by state institutions. Therefore, as one of our colleagues said, we can have excellent laws, but capital obviously has its own law that is stronger than any other, and then who cares about nature and environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37223	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marian Bequac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! The final proposal of the Nature Protection Act is a law bearing the P.Z.E. code. and is in line with European legislation. In the context of the European integration process, the strategic objective of nature protection policy in Croatia is to meet all necessary preconditions for meeting the international obligations provided for by the European Union. Compared to most European Union countries, Croatia is highlighted by the diversity of ecological systems and habitats in which a large number of plants, mushrooms and animals exist. This wealth is conditioned by the position of Croatia on... several biogeographical regions, divorce relief, geological... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] hydrological and climate conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these reasons for the specificity of nature in Croatia contributed to the exceptional wealth of landscape diversity. Compared to the state of the ecological systems of most other Central and Western European countries, Croatia is characterized by a high degree of conservation of nature. It's one of our greatest treasures and responsibility to all of us to preserve our nature and to surrender to those who come behind us at least about the way we took it from our ancestors. Of course, it will not be easy to achieve this today in the era of industrialisation and rapid technological progress, but I hope that citizens' awareness of the need to preserve nature will prevail and that man will change his relationship to nature in the future. Relative conservation of nature and biological resources in Croatia is due primarily to general economic situation and other causes in the past. We can say that for this reason we were fortunate that our nature was still preserved and that we need to know how to protect and the adoption of this law is an important step towards this goal. The importance of protected parts of nature in Croatia should certainly be highlighted here and the highlighted fact that 481 business facilities, national parks, nature parks, strict special reserves, park woods, monuments, park architecture and protected landscapes are protected. Thirty... The facilities are protected in the process of declaring them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total area of protected parts of nature in Croatia is 5847 km square or 9.8% state territory. The implemented and planned protection of certain parts of nature, which is foreseen by the spatial arrangement programme of the Republic of Croatia and the strategy and action plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia. The declaration of nature parks Neretva, Elafiti, Lastovo, Grežnica, Lika Pljesevica, Bjelolasica, Zrmanja and Krupa, Kupa and Hrvatska Zagorje, which will protect about 14% of the national territory that will be placed in the European countries with an appropriate level of nature protection. This Law will lay down the basic frameworks and principles of nature protection, ensure the security of biodiversity and landscape diversity, the protection of valuable natural areas, and endangered plant areas,... and the animal's wildlife, as well as the domestics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed Law will provide protection and assumptions for the full conservation of nature, relative to all kinds, biological and landscape diversity as well as sustainable use of natural resources. This Law will also ensure the compatibility of nature protection in Croatia with the protection of the nature of the countries of the European Union. Since all issues relating to the protection and preservation of the overall biological transformation diversity are regulated in accordance with the regulations and standards of the European Union. It will create assumptions for quality conservation and improvement of the existing biodiversity in Croatia and will ensure the conditions for the reasonable use of natural resources on sustainability principles and for the benefit of current and future generations. In the end, my support for the adoption of this Law is that we really need to protect and care for nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is rich with its own nature, the wealth we do not know how to protect, the man at the end of the 20th, at the beginning of the 21st century took over and gave himself possession and proved that by this property he could not master but that is not the case in our homeland which cannot comfort us and we have not shown ourselves very good lord of our greatest wealth from the Adriatic to the Danube. However, the first reading of the proposed law certainly spoke of special natural beauty, wealth, lakes, sea, rivers. It was about protected parts of nature and those that were not protected. I will look back where I know the best part of the part and that is the karst part of our homeland, absolutely Mr. colleague, and we need to know that the Croatian land is a classic piece of junk, but in the Imotsko region, it is a protected part of the natural beauty that we often talk about and what every man of property can be proud of wherever he is, and it is Blue and Red Lake, which is the Vrljika River, these are pro-logical lakes, the Imot Lake Guy. We're also proud of Biok. But, however, but we're talking a little bit about something that's not protected and it's just... facilities in the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I have already said that Croatia is a country of classical karst, so far registered, explored somewhere in Croatia about 8,000 caves and caves, in Split-Dalmatia County about 2,000 caves and caves have been explored so far, and I am sure there are still so many more. But I am, however, just because I am often lucky now and being in that karst neighborhood of our homeland, my relationship to this natural special wealth has moved me to write today this amendment that I have already set out in the hope that it will be accepted. It also states, in Articles 82 and 137, that concessions are not allowed to be made on spele objects. And my argument is quite simple, by awarding concessions to spelological facilities outside the protected area due to the activities for which they can be used there is a legitimate concern that they may be exposed to various forms of devastation. If I was in charge and worked as a state inspector, then I'd bring you a few cases of a few caves where I was almost out of control. Here's what asked me to write this amendment to the gentlemen of the Ministry of Culture, I hope that this amendment, I repeat, will be accepted once again. In a conversation with the proposing representatives, I was told that but for tourist purposes, we recently heard how and what happened to the same beautiful cave of Cerovačka cave that is experiencing what it is experiencing. If the Ministry of Culture or competent bodies were to grant concessions to caves in Croatia, then this would happen and what often happens to cave jewelry in case of the need for it to be cut so easily. I'm not saying this from something I haven't experienced or haven't seen, but unfortunately I've experienced it. I'm in my village two kilometers ago we were all rather proud of one cave of Golubinka, there are stories about it, our elders told us about Golubinka as one speciality, I must admit that no one else is but neighbors, my neighbors made it out of that beautiful dove place for waste. It's not that, I can and I'm free to call my neighbors, but there are such examples throughout Croatia. Here is the hope that this Law will protect what little the European state has I will support this Law and I will look back on another amendment that I have written, which is usually with article 71, all the laws after 8 days of voting in the Croatian Parliament are published in "The People's Journal". There is no law in the Croatian Parliament that does not withdraw regulations and rules obviously stay and only have persons with them working either in the Ministry or in certain services, and I have rightly written this reason. I won't read the explanation. You know it because it's always said when we see something and try to protect something in the parks of nature or anywhere we refer to the law or to an article of the law. It's often said the law is unspeakable. The regulation is not available, so here sometimes it happens because of the inaccessibility of the regulations or statutes, we cannot protect what is necessary. In the hope that you will accept the second amendment, I thank you in advance, and I will be really happy when the Nature Protection Act is published in "The People's Newspaper" and I will be even happier when we protect it by this law and try to protect and correct it if possible, and what we started to destroy can be corrected, and these are not only rivers and its canyons but also springs. I'm going to mention a beautiful word of "Zrnovnica." I often travel by the end. Now I'm going to get a little poetic. I once said that this river washes Dalmatian stone until that place where one mattress and one stove were thrown. The wealth of nature in Croatia is the greatest wealth and we have no right to destroy it now. It's already been said here, and what are we going to leave for generations? The 20th century and the 21st century must be said to be a century of technology. The information must have reached the highest possible degree in our history. And it's certainly something that'll be for the future. But I often wondered, and when I was once in Stuttgart among my general colleagues, I asked the general consuls, "Okay, what are we leaving for the 21st century? What architecture? What art?” And one of my colleagues who often travels to Croatia said: “All right, colleagues, but you in Croatia still have something to leave for the future if you know how to save.” I hope this law will contribute to what we must leave for our generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37227	Thank you very much. Lastly, on behalf of the applicant, State Secretary Mr Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37228	I thank Mr Vice President and thank you for the debate on the final draft of the law and for the amendments I am sure have the goal of improving the text of the law and we will consider them and show ourselves about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37229	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37230	Now we're going to the Final Bill of Nature Protection, second reading, P.Z. Number 198. The debate is over. We have a number of amendments. You have the plate in front of you for the amendment. I ask Secretary of State Jadran Antolovic to be shown about certain amendments. First amendment to the 1st Parliament of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37231	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37232	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37233	Amendments are not accepted since the date of definition in the final proposal for a law is considered sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37234	Amendment, what didn't you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37235	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37236	Okay. Proposer, she's gone. We have to vote. Please engage. You can vote. Score. 21 for the amendment, 14 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The third representative of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37237	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37238	A brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37239	The current definition is common and sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37240	Comrade Martic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it was my intention that, in the definition of nature park, it would simply be complete with the words or words "natural" and "science". It means that, in addition to all these values it has, the nature park is also characterized by natural values and with educational and educational values there is also scientific value and therefore I ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37242	Thank you. Please engage. The vote on this amendment. You can vote. Score. 28 for the amendment, 4 abstentions, 69 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Alenka Koshasha's fourth representative, Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37243	It is not accepted that the adoption of the proposed amendment would make it completely impossible to declare new protected areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37244	Thank you. There's no proposal. We have to vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. Score. 21 for the amendment, 8 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fifth representative of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37245	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37246	It becomes an integral part of the law. The sixth club representative of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37247	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37248	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The seventh representative of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37249	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37250	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eight Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37251	It is not accepted that we believe that a cataster of all speleological objects must be conducted in order to know when and who discovered them and to monitor their condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37252	We have to vote. There's no proposal. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. Score. 18 for, 12 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The ninth amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37253	It is not accepted that we consider it sufficient to grant annual authorisations for scientific and professional research while all other activities require special authorisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37254	We have to vote. Please engage. We can vote. Score. For amendment 16, abstentions 16, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The tenth representative of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37255	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37256	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 11th representative of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37257	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37258	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 12th House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37259	It's unacceptable. This exemption would destroy the entire system of nature protection measures in protected areas under the forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37260	The Honorable representative of Ledinski on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37261	I think it's illogical to ban the construction of fire roads that serve exclusively to put out fires. And I think we should leave in these protected facilities the possibility of building that. And if on behalf of the government you want to accept, then I would like to throw this word "like" out of this amendment. If I don't ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37262	The vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 26 for the amendment, 5 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thirteenth Representative Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37263	It's unacceptable. Since we consider in the area of the national park sufficient demand for a preliminary opinion by the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37264	Proposer, Mr. Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37265	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37266	Amendment thirteen is withdrawn. The 14th Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37267	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37268	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 15th House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37269	It's unacceptable. We believe that protected areas can only be managed by established public institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37270	My fellow Ledinsky, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37271	This example shows that we do not want to accept the currents of Western Europe where it is very clear that with national parks where the basic phenomenon of forests or where the basic phenomenon of water is the masters of the legal person involved. In this way we will only increase the number of public institutions and have no more quality management. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37272	Thank you. Please engage. You can vote. Score. 21 for the amendment, 8 abstentions, 71 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 16th Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37273	It's unacceptable. In view of the fact that it is only a concession for visiting and viewing, a person who cares about the condition of the speleological facility is provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37274	Representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37275	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Why the speleological facilities do not remain at the county centres as it has been so far, i.e. public institutions to take care of that part which is not part of the unprotected part or which is not covered by this law. Speological facilities in the Republic of Croatia are not protected by anything, so I ask if it goes, and certainly if it goes for tourist purposes it is a commercial activity. It will happen again often what we experience in caves and caves. But if your explanation includes what will not happen, and what tourism suggests, it certainly goes for commercial purposes so you will see what happens in the Cerovačka cave in...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37276	Your final position? Voting or withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37277	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37278	Please engage. We can vote. The result? In an unsolved outcome, the amendment has not passed. Not counting 14 abstentions. ... 17 MPs, Jagoda Martic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37279	It's unacceptable. Accepting this amendment would make it impossible to manage in a park of nature which significantly distinguishes it from a national park.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37280	Comrade Martic, come in. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment 17 has been withdrawn. 18 club representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37281	It's unacceptable. The legal person owned by the Republic of Croatia is also obliged to implement measures to protect nature as the interest of the Republic of Croatia and we therefore hold that he is not entitled to compensation for restrictions. My fellow Ledinsky, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37282	Look, Mr. President. It is illogical to distinguish the legal persons of the state and the legal person of the private. The legal person is a legal person. For example, Croatian Forests, the Government can replace the director but cannot dispose of the assets of companies, right. According to the kidnapping, it's illogical for us to share in this part of the law something that is clear to everyone, right? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37283	Thank you. It's time to vote. Please engage. You can vote. The result? 22 for the amendment, 10 abstentions and 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19 representatives of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37284	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37285	It becomes an integral part of the law. 20 of the same agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37286	It is not accepted that, as a competent authority, the Ministry must retain the insight and consistency of spatial plans relating to protected areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37287	Representative Marko Shirac?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37288	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37289	Thank you. Amendment 20 has been withdrawn. 21 representatives of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37290	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37291	It becomes an integral part of the law. Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37292	It is not accepted that under the same reasoning as the amendment to Article 82.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37293	It's actually a consummated amendment, because it didn't go past the previous one. You're withdrawing the amendment? Amendment withdrawn 22. Amendment 23 to Alenka Kočica MP Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37294	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37295	It becomes an integral part of the law. And 24 also representatives of Alneka Koèa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37296	It is not accepted, and the justification is the same as the amendment to Article 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37297	We have to vote. Please engage. You can vote. The result? 24 for the amendment, 14 abstentions, 59 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Nature Protection Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the Nature Protection Act was passed by 93 votes to and 3 abstentions and 9 votes against. I'm looking for something about nature day, and I can't find it now that we've passed that law. Now I've had it, now I'm out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37298	We're going to go to: 16. Proposal for a forest law, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 293; Proposal, Proposer of the Law, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was held by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Does the president, the proposaler's representative, wish to further explain? Mr. Herman Sušnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's another material in front of you today, forest law, first reading. So let me just say a few introductory words about this law. Forests and forest land in Croatia cover 2.5 million hectares or about 44 areas of the state. They are made up of different eco-systems including lowland, coastal and mountainous forests. About 84% of the leaves are closed, and the medium wood stock per hectare is 121 cubic per hectare. By their natural structure, they are unique in Europe. Forest management takes place by supporting natural restoration, i.e. supporting the way of management through fertilisation or... It cuts alongside the forest and implements the degraded forests into forests of high breeding form and new reforestation on unprocessed forest land that has a total of about 400,000 hectares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This kind of management supports the biological balance and meets the international conventions that we are signatories to. I must also mention that 95% of our forests are natural forests, and only 5% of the crops and plantations mean artificially raised ingredients, and just as 2 million hectares of Croatian forests have been said before have been certified, which means one orientation of the Republic of Croatia according to secret management. Forests have an important place in the Croatian economy and from the point of view of the value of wood and parallel products. Foresting and wood industry account for about 3.5% of gross domestic product, employs about 4.5% of labour force and participates with 12% in exports. About 80% of the forests in Croatia are owned by the Republic of Croatia and are managed by the company "Croatian Forests" d.o.o. which is 100 percent state-owned. The remaining 20% of the forest is privately owned and are mainly used for the production of heated wood. The existing Croatian wooden stock amounts to about 324 million cc's of wood. The base of management predicts an annual label, meaning what about 5.3 million cc's of wood can be achieved in one year. It's 1.83% of the existing wood supply or 60% of... Annual growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it cuts less than the forest grows. A projection of forest management development by 2025 shows long-term sustainability of revenues, improving the existing forest and forest funds. Despite everything listed, the vast potential of forests and forest surfaces has not yet been used to the end. The improved management of forests can increase the production of goods and services by helping to create additional jobs and incomes and additional values. In particular, major shifts in private forests are possible. Forest-goods, since renewable resources can be managed in a sustainable manner in accordance with the principles of environmental conservation. However, this bill does not change the fundamental principle of forest management in Croatia, which is management in a sustainable way. This means to manage in a way that preserves and improves the social and ecological roles of the forest in addition to economic terms. The law regulates the management right of the owner in choosing how to manage and distribute profits while real management in the state forests has a state-owned company. Many questions from the basic concepts of definition to the management and conservation of forests are better resolved than the present. One of the objectives is to comply with European regulations and directives relating to forestry and respect for resolutions which we are signatories or to create conditions for them to meet the adoption of sublegal acts. All data on forests and forest land will be monitored in one place. In the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. It is envisaged to establish a register of forest damage monitoring due to pests, forest fires, national forest inventory, the adoption of a national forestry programme at the highest level in the Croatian Parliament. The following will improve forest observation and information already adapted to the methodology and standards of the current members of the European Union. Forest and forest land are better protected by this proposal in the production and adoption of spatial planning documents when declaring protective restrictions on the rights of building management, more clearly solved property and legal questions about... the separation and establishment of services in the forest and on forest land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Administrative and administrative affairs related to international cooperation of monitoring and monitoring of the situation and adaptations to the European Union shall be transferred to institutions financed from the budget, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Economy and the Forest Institute. Planning on forestry, construction and maintenance of forest infrastructure is also aimed at increasing forest protection and forest land. Licensing to perform in forestry is envisaged to increase the level of expertise and quality of their performance, a chamber of forestry engineers and wood technology will be established to take care of the quality and expertise of the performance of works. Get Croatian forests d.o.o. aids for the use of common useful forest functions, forest contribution funds are more justly distributed to more users, state, Croatian forest, local self-government units and forest owners. In the way in which the payment and the cost of the compensation is collected, much more transparency is ensured than in the applicable law, which will be dealt with even more in detail by sublaws. In order to improve the management, better protection and thus increase revenues from forest owners, the establishment of a forest and advisory service for private forests is envisaged. The existing regulations aimed at improving the management of private forests have shown themselves inconclusive because they were based on administrative models of coercion and the attitude of the legislator towards private forest owners is based on the following: Interesting the forest of the owners to increase the wood supply maintained the management of forests on market principles, while preserving the general useful functions of the forest and encouraging forest owners to cooperate with forest experts to apply forest achievements, rounding their property and association. It also provides for the establishment and management of a register of forest owners. The transition of forest inspection from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy is set up as two-stage, including the current way of organisation by area units in the first degree, and the second stage inspection is set up in the ministry. The law also addresses a number of other issues that improve the provisions of the existing law, which more clearly define procedures, relationships and concepts in the area of forestry that have caused doubts and different interpretations by the existing law. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37300	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Mr. Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament at the 24th session held on 19 May discussed the proposal for a Law on Forests submitted by the government to the President of the Croatian Parliament in an act of 27 April 2005. The Committee considered the proposed law as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure. In the debate on the text of the proposal for a law, it was warned of the provisions of Article 57 which enable the establishment of the right of service in the forest and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed that, in order to protect the forest area, it is lawful to lay down the possibility of a multi-annual plantation service only in degraded forest areas. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The proposal for a forest law is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37302	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mato Šimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37303	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Functional changes within the trading company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. the new social economic circumstances of the obligation to comply with the laws of the European Union as well as the novelty of laws due to numerous amendments and additions over the past two decades require amendments to the Law on Forests. The new law should be based on conventional forest management with respect to the provisions of the directives and conventions which we are signatories and also make Croatian forestry and wood industry competitive on the foreign market. Unlike the laws of other countries of our environment, the Forest Act should be assumed the most favourable way of managing forests under the circumstances of denationalisation and strengthening the private sector in forestry and the development of wood industry and the limitations of nature protection. The right of management in the state forests has a state-owned company, the Croatian Forests d.o.o. The company also worked on a spatial three-stage organisation, a Zagreb-based directorate, 16 regional forest administrations and 171 forests. Forests are basic organisational and spatial areas of forest management. In addition to forests, there are working units for the operation of forest and remote transport of wood, forest construction and other activities. Croatian forests had 17 daughters who were returned to the company's portfolio in 2000. Croatian forests have about 10,000 permanent employees. Out of the total number of employees, 13% are in forest management, forest management, 73% and labour units 14%. In addition to permanent employees of the Croatian forest during the year, they employ mainly during intensive breeding work and implement forest protection measures from fires of about 600 workers for a certain period of time. Of the total number of employees, technical and administrative staff participates with more than 50%. Other employees are mostly forest workers. Besides employees in Croatian forests d.o.o. There are still around 700 entrepreneurs with around 5,000 employees for certain jobs in forestry. The emergence of business losses along with other problems in the production and business process has accelerated the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to submit a proposal for the reorganisation and restructuring of the Croatian forests, which began with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 22 February 2001. By approaching the European Union, the level of capital investment in forests will be reduced and, therefore, the policy of forestry is gradually directed towards the social policy of employment and financing of the ecological component, such as investment in the restoration and protection of damaged forest habitats and the rise in the promotion of management and protection of private forests. In this proposal for a law, the provisions of the international directives and conventions which we are signatories are incorporated, which relate to specific ways of forest management of natural rejuvenation, diversity of species, conservation of natural habitats, care for animal species in the forest, preservation and improvement of the common useful functions of the forest. The introduction of services as an additional institute in the resolution of property-legislative relations reduces and speeds up the procedure for the establishment of documentation. The law introduces order on forest roads by regulating the way in which the use, maintenance, prevention, labelling and other regulations do not exist in the applicable law. The law provides opportunities for scientific and scientific educational institutions to target their activities on forest protection projects and improve management in a commercial way, as scientific observations will be directly financed from forestry. The law also addresses a number of other issues that improve the provisions of the existing law, and thus clearly define procedures, relationships and concepts in the area of forestry that have caused doubts and different interpretations by the existing law. Sustainable management should be further ensured by measures to protect the conservation and improvement of forest eco-systems. Rehabilitation of damaged forest eco-systems requires a new approach to this problem, given that recoverys are a long-term process and must start as soon as possible and as high-quality as possible. In various stages of the restructuring of the company, surplus labour will be created. Excess of labour is provided for through licensing of forest works, which will at the very least maintain the current level of expertise and quality. The establishment of a forest chamber provided for by law will further introduce labour market order in the conditions expected. The law also provides for the distribution of profits from the management of forests between the company, the state budget and local self-government. In view of the organisational changes shown and changes in the financial nature of the law, the establishment of a forest advisory service and the transfer of administrative and administrative jobs related to international cooperation of observation and monitoring of the situation of adaptation to the European Union to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy is envisaged. The allocation of compensation for the general services of forests and other forest owners, not only of the state forest, is more fair and regulated by this law and will promote sustainable forest management and forest development as a leading economic activity, particularly in rural areas of the country. The aim is to improve the state of the private forests which is intended to be achieved through the forest advisory service by encouraging the education of forest owners to increase wood supply on market principles. For sustainable management, the preservation of the common useful function of the forest, the circulation of land according to European principles. The owners of small forest properties can thus make additional revenues, and in rural areas find an alternative to obtaining income except from agriculture, which is for every commendation. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37304	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37305	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to show satisfaction in the name of our club that this bill has been sent as the title itself says, in the first reading. Why? Because it is necessary to pass a new Law on Forests, because, practically, with the changes and additions that we have on several occasions passed, we have an old law from the socialist time of the Forests Act and it is absolutely certain that the new economic opportunities and circumstances of the modern civil social and market economy should also be adapted to the Forests Act. Secondly, what we would like to point out is that this opens up the possibility and wider debates, because, in our court, the first debate on this law in the first reading must be in the introduction of a broader and more serious debate in Croatia on Croatian forests and on the legislative regulation of Croatian forests. Third, the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has announced this law not only through a national forest management programme that was adopted during the former government but also practically with the Memorandum signed with the International Monetary Fund, in which it was accepted as one of the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that a new regulation of the position of Croatian forests will open the restructuring of Croatian forests and then their privatisation. You can see when, and of course fourthly, it is a constitutional need to regulate and protect certain interests of the Republic of Croatia in relation to forests and forest land as special wealth and values of interest for the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 52. The Constitution. You know when you take all these assumptions then it's obvious that this law will take enough and much work to do. And even more so, these assumptions, when taken into account, then some of the solutions offered in this very bill's proposal are very interesting and are actually asking whether they ensure restructuring, for example, by the forest owners, or by the forest owners, in particular, which will be able to use, for example, the compensation paid by forest users. For the simple reason, because this actually creates a space to be created by both the assorted and the rich modern and rich private owner who can privatise it tomorrow, or the owner, and not the private owner, because it is said, equates the forestowner with the owner, and does not withdraw the difference. Just on the way, please. The second thing that we want to suggest from these assumptions is the fact that in certain segments, this law from the constitutional aspect seems to be questionable for now. The fact is that, among other things, the use of forests is then their cultivation and protection and that this should be prescribed by forest-economic plans, and that at the same time the Constitution is explicit in this respect and that it says that it should be regulated by law. Therefore, it is obvious here that forest-economic plans are those that should develop the conditions, criteria and methods of exploitation, i.e. the use and protection of Croatian forests to be established in the law. Therefore, these conditions, criteria and methods of use, i.e. the protection of forests, should be laid down by this law, and should be based on them, i.e. on economic grounds. Of course, when accessing this problem with all these principled remarks, an additional question opens up, and what about, for example, part of forest land, and above all, not the forest land which, as it is here in the light of the law itself, is referred to by the forest as surfaces, but by the one that did not grow up by forest land or the infertile forest land. Still one that hasn't grown to the forest can be planted, planted, etc. if it's about growing, and what about this one that's infertile, but the fact is that this unprocessed forest land and infertile forest land seems to be about 400,000 hectares and that about 2 million or something more, according to this data, 2 million and 078 thousand hectares makes up a grown forest land. These are all issues that should be cleared up by this law and let us say a few things about this problem. We of the SDP Representatives Club believe that practically the largest number of surfaces of unsuspecting forest land and forest land that is infertile or treated as infertile is practically located in our islands, located along our coast and, of course, in the mountainous areas of particularly high mountains, and in such a situation, the question arises, for example, if a fire occurs, it is considered a natural disaster, I will read to you Article 67 which says: Forest fires in the area of karst are considered an essential disaster if they can endanger people's lives or cause damage, or harmful consequences. So if there are no adverse consequences for any user or does not endanger people's lives, then it is not considered an elemental accident at all. In this way there is actually one duality of morality. We kind of stimulate people to be such an elemental disaster by law on our islands, because we're not going to admit one fact to ourselves. That the largest number of such areas on which there are naturally grown or wild pine forests and that I do not list all kinds of trees, I am not an expert but I know what... and what is found, are the former areas of vineyards, permanent plantations, olive trees, fruit etc. etc. And in this respect, I personally consider and represent the thesis, and our club agrees with that, that it should not be put in place that the burning surfaces of the forest cannot be brought in for another cultural five years, nor should this be put in place, nor should such an elemental disaster occur. I think it is simply necessary to open the space in the law that infertile forest land and unprocessed forest land can be redeployed and re-designed for the establishment of permanent plantations of vineyarding, olive growing, fruit and orchards, but certainly not if it is not re-purposed that the full price of re-use of such land and additional penalty is to be paid. It's the same thing with forest land that caught fire. You don't have to say that for five years it can't be brought to another culture. Why the other one? Why not re-establish the forest in that space in those five years? It is therefore very important here to point out something else if it is already to be said, if five years after the fire can't be brought to another culture then it must be said without any re-purpose, without paying compensation for the re-use of the forest. I mean, it's missing. Then it's full and completely clear. I think that in this way a whole series of things that are very important for the social and sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia, especially our islands, coasts, etc., would quite differently set and normalise. And besides, they would finally give meaning to what is forest, forest, and what is maquis, maquis, etc., etc. The other thing that should be pointed out explicitly is related to problems that are immediately at the beginning quite this interesting. For example, it is not good to pass laws that will cause conflict. This Law not only allows the trade society of the Croatian forest to have a monopoly but also opens up a space for conflicts with locals and local communities. And it's not enough to prescribe that profits will, I don't know, be financed between the local community and the local community, i.e. that the company's total assets will be paid 50% to the company, 25% to the state budget, 25% to local self-government units. With the fact that it is quite clear here that regional self-government has been dropped. They probably didn't even take care of it. But this when told to local self-government units, that means only municipalities and cities can win, but units of the county can't. And the county should again take care of ecological protection under the Constitution, therefore, and the protection of the forest. So, from what? The question is, in fact, whether this part that has been re-scheduled to local self-government units needs a little bit of a different solution. What exactly is this about, where are the conflicts? These are related to Articles 33 and 34. So you have a situation in Article 33, and regarding Article 32, where it is said that it is explicitly forbidden by this Law, so it is not possible for each other to prescribe this, different things, deforestation, cutting down trees, that's fine. Deterioration and clean cutting of forests, cutting off branches, etc., but then pasture, grass, stinging, and so in order to collect, shush, moss, forest fruits. Now, in 33, you can do all that, you can do all that, of course, if you get approval with the company's compensation. And in Article 34, all of this can be done by the forest owner, so it does not have to be owned by the forest owner. Not the owner of the forest, but the forest owner who implies that he can do it, and that actually means that it means that all of this can also be done by a commercial company that deals with forest management. Therefore, it is obviously quite serious here because I must say that we must not forget the fact of the traditional exercise of certain activities. Among other things, they pasture cattle, harvesting, picking mushrooms, pigs, harvesting, pigs, and then picking mushrooms, and other wildebeests, and so on, and so on. In this respect, in certain areas and in this respect, certain situations may occur which would not be desirable for either the Croatian forest or us. Fourthly, it is not good to prescribe that forests with special purpose are also within protected areas and natural values protected by the Nature Protection Regulation. Of course, that is, these are not just a matter of special purpose forest, but of specially protected areas. But if these are just special purposes forests, then it's practically overkilled by this law and that's what I was saying at the previous agenda point that this should be brought into line with the Nature Protection Act and everything else... Because this is the fact that this is the organization that will manage and manage these forests in protected areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Yeah, I don't mind it being, but it doesn't have to be just her. It is the one that will offer the highest quality of the programme protection, protected property and species in the protected area in accordance with the Nature Protection Act. I am convinced that in our space in Croatia it will be the trade society of Croatian forests because it has the greatest potential, experts, resources, etc., but it is not exclusively that others can appear. Therefore, what is important is that the Law must not exclude others, and it now virtually excludes them. Second, the fourth thing I'd like to point out. Unbelievable but true, Article 12 provides that in the processing of a company and forest owners are not obliged to take special precautions against forest visitors, nor can they be held responsible for any damage or injury suffered by such persons unless they have been deliberately done. Now, who are the visitors to the woods? So, they can be tourists, they can be curious citizens, and I don't count who they are, but they're also citizens or those individuals who have asked for, and they get the right to harvest, pick mushrooms, I don't know, to enter shush, moss, etc., etc. Now, first of all, this is the kind of legal responsibility I've never seen before. Even harsh negligence is excluded from responsibility. For God's sakes, according to the law itself, according to the Law of Work, gross negligence is a violation of duty and labour discipline. Now, on that basis, the forest worker will respond to the work discipline, but the forestry company will not be responsible for its worker, say, which he did not warn, and he saw people going through the average, that they would fall down the tree and kill two, three men and the rest of the orphans. I don't think this kind of thing is good, and we from the SDP Representatives Club are warning them, and we want to say that this should be brought to an end by the second reading. Furthermore, there are some other things that are quite interesting, and that's actually a question of who makes forest-economic plans? It states that they are brought by the Ministry in Article 23(1), and in paragraph 5 of that Article, the company is obliged to draw up forest-economic plans. Now, that can be assumed that it's made and the ministry is bringing. That it's not a follow-up sentence. And regularly renovate them and revise them, so without the ministry, they're actually thought to bring it in. Who's responsible? The Ministry or the Trade Society? You can't be this shared jurisdiction. Of course, when it comes to, for example, our next remark is about Article 24. The basis of the management, or management program. What is it now? Those two aren't the same, the basics and the program aren't the same. Now, you can't say "or." Or, it's not that, but it has to be worked out, and this issue needs to be worked out by the final draft of the law. Of course, forests with special purpose are prescribed the basis of the area and the forest management programme. That's not true. Forests with special purpose, as you have seen in specially protected areas. E, they are prescribed by the Nature Protection Act and specific laws under the Nature Protection Act and specific laws under the Nature Protection Act, which are declared, for example, nature parks or national parks, etc., etc. Or I don't know, the decisions of the regional self-government units, or the City of Zagreb, which declare the park, the forest and so on. Therefore, it should be kept in mind that this must be brought into line with that Law, and a whole series of such examples could be cited. It is the same thing with the Hunting Act and Article 27, because the Law stipulates that poaching persons must be in line with the hunting person, the forest economy person, and at the same time the forest economy person is brought by the forest owners themselves, and remember what is the position of the forestkeeper in the Hunting Act. They have the right to get a concession to perform... up to 50% of the value on the basis of the prices they prescribe themselves, and then this same hunting base should be brought into line with their base. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, I still have a lot to say on behalf of the club, but time's up, so I have to stop here. I will see if I will apply for another 10 minutes, but these examples all show that this law as an idea is acceptable, but in its content it needs to experience important, important changes to the second reading so that they can, qualityly bring it and agree to their position and vote it in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37306	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37307	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HSP club also points to a rather bad situation in the area of forestry in Croatia. This situation is obviously the result of the conversion and privatisation in the Croatian way, and obviously the problem of Croatia regarding corruption and all other things that have appeared in Croatia from the 95th to today and which make it impossible for Croatia to develop, new employment and the launch of Croatia. Namely, analyses of the situation in this area from 95 to today indicate that everything has happened here. So I will try to say briefly what is important for this area so that this law that we welcome in the first reading could give an answer to the final proposal of the Law and all of these things try to resolve, that finally in this area as well as in other areas, the rule of law. First of all, I will look back at a number of issues that should be regulated in order to address the problem primarily of self-performing forests and forest land owned, the problem of deforestation, tree damage and the memory of rare types of trees, deforestation and... Cuts down forests, the problem of cutting down trees and branches in young ingredients and cultures, the problem of forest pastures, shrubs and sows, the problem of collecting and transporting shrubs, mosses and forest fruits and other parallel forest products, the exploitation of humus, clay, sands, pebbles and resins. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Making open fire in the forest on forest land as well as on land close to the forest, disposal of garbage and waste in forests. All that is, unfortunately, the presence of this is why we, as part of the hunting law, have proposed as a club, and one need for the establishment of a public institution related to the management of hunting grounds located in forests so that developed defenders can be hired on the one hand and all of this will lead to a situation that will work. Let's just say the fact that a number of tourist, catering, sports industrial housing and other commercial facilities have been built throughout the Republic of Croatia in the state forests and in the forest land, without the transfer of rights for the same property under compensation. In fact, by self-performing the usurpation in Croatia, more than 5,000 hectares of national forests are currently being used illegally, with an average value of over 50m euros according to the current methodology. These are the means which should be the resources of the Croatian Forests. The further problem in this part also refers to the fact that I am sorry here that there is no Mr. Caine who often speaks of the rule of law, refers to the fact that many municipalities and cities in the grantnica have recorded ownership of forests and forest land towards the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and it is interesting that there has been a long wait, that measures have not been taken by the State Attorney's office or by the competent Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and while the municipalities have, above all, referred to the Mediterranean area of our country, whether it is about Istria, whether in other areas even in spatial urban plans some have re-sold it for construction sites and everything else. This is one, and such examples are unfortunately a lot in Croatia, these are just examples of non-functioning of the rule of law and inaction, well at that time it was the attorney's office now as part of the state's attorney's office, and only on the initiative and incentives of the state's inspectorate about two years ago the state's attorney's office began, it was in disputes about the annulment of all this, but unfortunately many things have already gone to the end so that the question of how and under this variant and possibilities will eventually be resolved. Furthermore, it is also a very interesting situation regarding this case, that, for example, in the coast, illegal use of state forests is established means municipalities and cities, however, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry approves programmes for managing the same surfaces, whether there are camps, whether there are various sports fields and other facilities, while on the other hand we have parallel to the same ministry dispute development investment programmes for golf and other things, on forest land that will never be used to grow forests. Because we know the situation ourselves, we have an example in Zagreb, Zagreb Blato that golf course next to the hospital and the problems there are in the same. Furthermore, what is evident in this area has happened so that the parallel process of conversion and privatisation that took place in the workplace has also improved the thinking of individual forest experts under quotes, the entrepreneurial spirit in the direction of personal prosperity through the public enterprise's cover. This creates various forms of forest entrepreneurship on the black establishment of companies, which carry out the transport of products and services in forestry and hunting, behind which entrepreneurs use their positions in profit-making functions through the business contractual relationship of such companies with Croatian forests. There are various forms of convenience in the transport of products and services, manipulation of prices of goods and services, payment deadlines, compensations, cesiums and others. Compared to this period of 95, Croatian forests increased the production of wood varieties with an increase in investment in forest communications, forest roads, forest transport, forest tractors, transport trucks, road construction machines, vehicles for the transport of workers, vans and all that goes to personal cars. These investments have always been followed by high depreciations, and the cost of maintaining the purchase of various equipment, which in total penetrates the limits of the rentability of production goes to extremes because simply no one saves when buying from a common cash register in which they do not invest if... He's making a commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there are few who have such powers to spend common funds. Increased production of wood varieties in the trend of market demand and domestic and ino market Europe promotes a variety of types of conveniences similar to those of the purchasers of wood varieties, with various advantages, paying simply wood varieties cannot be bought "without recommendations" that are achieved through various commissions of composed lists and various priorities. All results from a negative selection of domestic economic factors, which is widely used by Italian customers who make up the commission link in the wood varieties chain on the Western European market. The increased production of wood varieties is covered by fictitious long-term planning through regulated forest elaborates, meaning the basics of forest management showing theoretical wood supply, forest stock and the annual increase of wood mass based on forest production of wood varieties. Trends in production volumes are followed by a trend in reducing investment and reducing compulsory works of simple and expanded biological reproduction as simply due to the high cost of production, the necessary resources for the forest and its restoration for future generations are missing. The implementation of work plans for simple and expanded biological reproduction from year to year is regularly reduced, with the rebalancing of annual plans, which are prescribed by the Management Board, or the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests, with the consent of the Ministry. Croatian forests simply generate incomes that primarily allocate themselves, namely there are about 10 thousand when all workers who work and waste up to 70% means these funds are spent further, funds are spent on the production of investment equipment and various services and forest ecosystems through simple and expanded reproduction return as much as they have left, even sometimes abuses. Therefore, it is evident that in this area, not to elaborate further on a really huge number of problems I will only still mention the parts that are very important, such as the World Bank programme, namely there is a sign that there is a great involvement in the services of private companies and there are even doubts in many cases that it is a fictitious situation of work. The same situation is also related to fire protection is shown excessively, with the same suspicion with a fictitious situation and the payment of various services, especially the fire averages, roads and everything else, and we know ourselves what our situation is in this area. There are also huge problems related to riots in forests, related to stockpiles, averages and all other things and normal in one-day forests are high cost of exploitation, there is a question of the implementation of tenders for the provision of services and the situation and payment of executive works, there is also a question of the classification and dispatch of wood varieties in the rolling forest, real supplies are well below normal, over-represented growths are shown by the basics, there is no duty of forest breeding work, neglect of other activities that are relevant in this area. Therefore, if I do not continue to speak and I see that we are not much in this assembly, it is obvious that there is a system order to be introduced here, I have only said this from 1995 to this year, with the fact that in the last few years the situation in this area has been improved but if you do not put order to the end in this area this thing will happen to you because it has entered into the very system in the area of forestry and it will be difficult to eradicate it if there is no legal basis to give answers to all these questions and if there is no possibility of realising all of this. And now I have to protest again because of that part that this situation is an inspection within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and that's the problem again because in this way we are creating essentially fertile ground for corruption because everything happens within one house if we know that there are also Croatian forests, that the chairman of the Supervisory Board was, probably a colleague, is the former Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests that many things from the authority of the Assembly have been transferred to the Supervisory Board if there is an inspection, if there are plans and programs that are approved, I don't know where this can lead us. Therefore, the situation is quite alarming, it needs to draw a line and give answers to all these questions because we know that the forests are our lungs, that we can use the forests far better in terms of tourism and everything else but above all, we need to introduce order and opportunity to finally operate the rule of law in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37308	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37309	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Someone forgot the Constitution, I don't know which one of the speakers is. Let me refer to the proposal of the Law on Forests on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. First of all, I would like to say that, in principle, we evaluate this bill as good because it lists all the basics and has found all the places, especially from the reproduction of forests, the funding programme, and especially what has not been quality solved so far, and this is a concern for private forests through the establishment of advisory services. I must say, as a forester, that on the surface of 500 thousand hectares of private forests in the Republic of Croatia, there has not been a quality solution to the issue of caring for that management so far. 500 thousand hectares is a significant area and must surely be managed by special care. The total area, as already said here, of the state forests of 2 million and these 500 thousand, makes it practically more than 40 percent of the country's surface and certain that such a single area requires the care of all of us, especially because, as counterpart Leko says and in the Constitution itself, it is specifically stated that Article 52 of the Constitution that the care of forests is of importance for the whole country and we must all take care together that the areas under the forest remain the same or that they at least increase. With the proposal of this law, I specifically say that we are particularly concerned about private forests and that we are able to make part of the funds that are being paid today by all our companies so-called. OKFŠ that some of these funds are being placed in private forests that we will soon be in a position to help new forest-building programs come into a position to increase the noise on those parts, precisely on those land-based land-based areas, which are today unproductive to raise a part of the forest, because in fact in the part where the quality of the land is bad, where practically there can be no agricultural production, then the only thing left is some kind of forest production that can exist in those areas. In that part, I personally see great opportunities and I would like to stress that certain counties today, such as Zagreb County, are investing just as significant funds and other counties, I have cited this as an example. They invest significant funds such as the promotion of forest production in their fields. Also, I think it would be useful to intensify this segment of forestry promotion through the Law on Incentives in Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries so that we can gain significant quality through this production. Why does it matter? So precisely because we know that forests produce oxygen and that practically those countries that today do not have forests, such as in Western Europe, encourage the rise of forest cultures and thus act on an increasing percentage of carbon dioxide in the air. In that part, if we could plan a part of the funding under the Encouragement Act through the next budget and allow for the raising of noise in those areas where we don't practically manage or manage in a quality way today and to plant certain and rapidly growing species we could get significant quantities and trees and also reduce harmful emissions that are happening today in the air. Since our wood industry depends on the production of wood mass in our country primarily because relatively few imports of wood from the outside then, along with one long-term planing production, we could realize that we have quantities that could encourage it to also be through one law that should be brought here that encourages the introduction of mass as an energy that automatically binds exactly harmful gases in such a way that we can get the possibility of mass being one of the sustainable sources of energy and reduce the introduction of today's energy that we import, for example oil or some other parts. In this way, we could reduce import needs in forest areas, especially here I say oil. Here, today we also have a case to gasse Lika and at the same time in that area we have certainly enough wood sources and other biomass that we could use as energy. That's why it's important here's the part about the promotion of forestry production especially in private forests, and here I have to say that's certainly important. When we talk about the establishment of this advisory service that should take care of private forests, then I think we should also set up in the same way as we have a special advisory-agricultural service today, that it is practically on the state budget and not that it is financed from the KEFŠ funds, and I think that for another reading it might not be a bad suggestion to agree that the forest advisory service is put together with the agricultural advisory service to use practically the same infrastructure of space, cars and other things. That way they'd be cheap. My proposal to the Secretary of State is to try to see that such a common service and perhaps a common service or a hunting agency are in one way practically the people who are the same professions, who can unite and thus get that service to function practically in the whole area, of course where there is a more foresty part with larger numbers and where it is not with smaller ones. In this way these 500 thousand hectares of the area of private forests would be used, it seems to me in the best possible way and in the long term practically investment in forestry, in the woods it is only costable for the state, for the private owner itself, because of the cycle of production... It means 80, 100 or 150 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is practically the only country that can achieve some kind of long-term profit with long-term investments and thus automatically increase production and run some other branches that will certainly be one alternative to today's large imports of energy. I must say that, in the proposal of this Law, Croatian forestry society also debated, so I am asked to transfer to the initial positions Croatian forestry society supports the proposal of this Law and will until the second reading hold a detailed debate in the wider area of the entire country through its 19 forest boundaries that operate and in that part try to bring the profession's views into line on this law. Also, let me look further at a few articles that I would like to say about, since this Law introduces the concept of service on forest land or forest, so I would like to give an example that this service is also carried out for the assignment or for the raising of quarryes, which I think is not justified because once we set up a quarry, it is hard to say that, at least I do not know one example except for those who have rescheduled the quarrys and returned to the original state of the forest, that none of the other privates did so. And in that part, I doubt whether it is necessary for quarryes to choose a service and especially because the means of service end not for the new reproduction of the forest but end in the state budget. When we add that a few years ago we introduced the Law on Roads practice that for compensation for areas that disappear permanently and remain on roads, e.g. The highway, which I have already talked about several times and this home where 15 thousand hectares of forest disappear and no one has singled out one lip to establish the same area of forest I think it should think about which way, because if we allow it then we will have an ever smaller area under the forest. When we talk about these services, we must say that they only exist on fertile land, on those who are infertile, whose colleague Mato had just spoken of little interest, but there is only interest perhaps if they are by the coast, the coast to be building land but that someone on infertile land will raise some kind of culture is difficult to expect. So that part should be taken care of, in fact, that this, this service and the implementation of what controls and implements the ministry does not put us in a position to have some after tomorrow... entering some sort of spatial plan with some surfaces, buildings and anything else that might happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about burning surfaces, they must not be brought to another culture. Well, just these days, we've had a case where when a vineyard was raised, there was a fire on the neighbouring surface of the accident, but as soon as something like that happens in the vicinity of the forest, then it's always getting under some kind of questionnaire, and there's a suspicion that someone might be doing it on purpose, so the foresters are asking all of us to just limit themselves to at least five years of raising some other culture because it might happen that we have in the coast and there's enough agricultural land, that colleagues in Dalmatia know over, according to the Ministry of Agriculture over 300 thousand hectares of unprocessed agricultural land existing in the coastal area that can be placed in the right position. Here, it might be an opportunity to talk about certain law settings, but here, since it is in the first reading and that the proposal of this Law certainly ensures that one quality perseverance and one care and care of the forest would no longer have, I would no longer need to talk about some articles that should be changed and I would like to look back on this, a little earlier debate that was about when we talk about the Law of the Forests then we like to talk about everything and everything. Personally, I am building on all these things that are colleagues, Kovacevic, particularly stressed that something was not done in quality. In the past term while I acted as director, but only to finally say that the forest and hunting inspection must be in the inspectorate and not in the resolution ministry. Personally, as a forester, I support that the Resort Ministry through the inspectorate has control, full control of what is responsible, and I think that in that part of this setting about where the inspection will be is less important than how it will work and whether it will answer all those questions that it has to answer. Here, in the end, I would say that the HSS Club supports the suggestion that this law goes to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37310	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate by individual discussion. The first is Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, she's gone. Okay. Mr. Representative Marko Shirac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37311	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Forests in the Republic of Croatia are a great national good. About 95% of the forest area is natural with over 60 forest communities. Forests and forest land cover about 2.5 million hectares or about 43% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The owner of forests and forest land is the state at 81% of the total forest area and 19% of the forest area and forest land are the owners of natural persons. Almost 86% of the total wood stock estimated at 324 thousand 256 million cubic meters is owned by the Republic of Croatia and managed by the company of the Croatian Forests, d.o.o., Zagreb. Foresting and wood industry employ 49 thousand workers. All this data suggests that forests in the Republic of Croatia should be carefully managed in a sustainable manner in accordance with the principles of environmental conservation. Therefore, the legislator wishes to regulate the rights of management, availability, management and use of forest resources and to regulate the way of collecting resources for the common useful functions of forests and their intended use to promote forest management. The promoter also edits questions of mineral extraction, construction... in the woods and in the forest land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The issue of establishing services on forest land as well as a number of other issues in the area of forestry is regulated. As this Law is in the first reading, I would point out certain provisions that should be more detailed in my court. Article 8(2) should establish a competent authority to give consent to infrastructure building projects in forest ecosystems. In Article 15, paragraph 1 should specify an authority proposing that forests be declared a protected forest. Article 16(2) states that the Minister determines which forests and forest land are covered by the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia. In Article 27, point 2 is to determine the authority responsible for determining whether the hunting-economic base is in line with the forest management plans referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 27. In Article 32, Article 32 provides for the prohibitions of trade in forests, indent 5 of that article: "The collection and disposal of forest fruits is prohibited." It is necessary to consider this provision and to restrict the prohibition on the collection of forest fruits necessary for the restoration of forests, but should certainly allow traditional use and collection of forest fruits such as mushrooms, raspberries and other fruits, grains, leaves and so on. Article 39 should specify the authority to adopt a programme of data collection measures in the establishment of a forest register. I think it's supposed to be a forest, forest advisory service. In Article 53, in more detail, Article 53 should be elaborated as it introduces a ban on the reuse of forest land for 5 years when the land is burned, when the land is burned. In Article 89, the new paragraph should identify the sources of financing of the forest advisory service established by the Government of the Republic and arrange which body will propose to the Government the establishment of a forest advisory service and the body under which it will operate. Is this the agricultural and advisory service or someone else, as my colleague Ledinski suggested in his presentation. And finally, Mr. Vice President, I would like to conclude that in all other provisions, this law has properly regulated the question of the forest and I suggest that it be headed for a second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37312	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37313	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, the promoter. I'll try telegraphically to look back on the forest bill. At first, I think we need to pass a new forest law for two reasons. I don't think the current Law on Forests has made it clear that this is the special interest of the Republic of Croatia in the forests, so even this law does not define it even as an example. And it would be good for the special interest of the Republic of Croatia to be taxed. And that the special interest of the Republic of Croatia in the forests is decided by the Parliament. This definition of the particularly national, special interest of the Republic is set out in Article 52. The constitution as a principle. And in Article 6 of this proposal of the law, it is again merely stated, as a principle. If we do not determine what is the special interest of the Republic of Croatia in forests, forest, forest activities, forestry activities, then the Assembly will not be able to control it. And indeed the forests have special, special significance for the Republic of Croatia. They have a general meaning, so it's not just for one generation but for all generations to come. They have special and general importance regarding their impact on I could say from climate, environmental, development, health, economic. This Bill proposal is very good, very well perceived by the economic and commercial importance of the forest and even in an explanation as a value, especially since it indicates exactly how many workers are employed, forest activity. But that's not the whole, the whole point, even the law says, protecting the forest and their particular interest. For this reason, it is once again noted that the balances and special interest of Croatia in forests should be taxed and the balances should then be brought to the Parliament by the Government and the Ministry to decide on concessions and exploitation of forests. And basically around the law, nothing more, but speaking, and it's important that the regulations are passed as soon as possible because the old regulations that are now working are really outdated and they haven't been implemented. Like the balances of the mine treasure. Or mineral raw materials. It was a regulation that was passed in 1991 by the Minister of Forestry, and until today, no balance of mineral or mineral raw materials has been reached in the House on the basis of which the Government and the Ministry would grant concessions. I'd pray that, maybe it's good, but I couldn't get through to the meaning of Article 90. Otherwise, the transitional provisions are a lot to say to each other inconsistencies. According to Article 87, the minister will adopt regulations under this law within 6 months. And that he will coordinate his business, his forestry, and his company within a year. This means that the minister will adopt regulations within 6 months and will remain for 6 months to comply with the new regulations. The most interesting part in this section is Article 90, paragraph 2, which says, "The annual plans for forest management can be made three years from the day of adoption of this law." What would I conclude from this? Yeah, that plans can be made in the next three years. What happens when it's three years old? Can plans still be made? Can I change? Therefore, it should be possible to establish how the plans are adopted, how much they are worth, how much they are in force and what time-limit it is for them to be adopted from the entry into force of this law. Legal power. So I'm going back to general useful functions. Therefore, the general useful functions and special interest of the Republic of Croatia, Article 6 and the transitional and final provisions, and in the second reading may help to specify these elements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37314	Thank you very much. It's Mr. representative of the Jure Bithunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37315	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I can say at least when it comes to the area where I come from, so the Dalmatian Zagora that there is quite a lot of interest among the leaders, local leaders in this matter, because so far the law and the current way of forest management has proved to be part of a constructive law that also blocks the development of the economy. I'll talk about it later. But in any case, when it comes to the total forest wealth of Croatia, I believe that Croatian forests work and manage the foundation of a conservative way and approach that they have preserved this national wealth for us, but with one smart policy I hope that we will preserve it for generations that come behind us. Forests certainly have their own huge impact on the climate and fertility of the soil, it is in some way pointing to the fact, they are an indicator of de facto human intervention in nature and on the other side of the law that is before us, it is being passed in Croatia for the first time because they were formerly older laws that we inherited. But this is the first time we have discussed a law that should be in line with the European Union's gains. And de facto it is also in these 15 years since the independence of Croatia de facto the first Law on forests that Croatia should in the right sense be Croatian law. Yeah... I've been meaning to speak widely, but because of the situation of this weather we're in right now, I'm going to cut short, so I'm going to be pretty specific. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My basic observations on the proposed law refer to a chapter relating to property legal relations, i.e. Article 51 below. I've got my own comments and concerns, so I'll say it myself. Namely, for the development of the Dalmatian Zagora, and we are witnessing major shifts made in Dugopolje, Dicim etc. The current law and regulations were with a limiting factor. This opens up some possibilities, but I'm not sure if that's what we expected on the ground, what we expected on the ground. I can only say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made its latest moves, and back a few months making a decision where all units of local self-government that had certain programmes, detailed plans, etc. when it comes to working zones, it has decided on land-indication in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and which are lords of the Croatian forest at the price of 1 kuna per 1 hectare, which is de facto giving free of charge. And I think it was one real move from the government, and it was the first government that in the last 15 years has seen one way of managing forests that de facto caused a lot of things, I would say bitterness in municipalities, in cities, where there were also such ways and possibilities of development and the land was owned by the state or Croatian forests. I believe that this law in Article 51 opens up in some way even though I am not sure if this is what will happen to the local self - government units, but thank God by looking at the state interest so as not to go to one extreme again so that it does not become a mass phenomenon. As for Article 53, he would disagree with Mr. Ledinski and others. It's about burned surfaces. He says they can't be brought in to another culture for five years since the fire. I believe that we must trust each other and that no one will make any incidents and come into possession later. In the first place, I believe that most people are well-intentioned and that they would not make one case a rule that they would not take a whole for part of the "pars prototo" but I believe that if this article were to remain in this form, it would be added to the next. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is about the fact that if the forest is burned somewhere, it cannot be a limiting factor in order for that land to be possible in a function in accordance with Article 51 and I can also say, accordingly, Article 57 of the law in question where permanent plantings are mentioned. Therefore, it should be looked a little wider and I don’t think that we should go there in some way that this article should be deleted or possibly left behind but to experience a constant supplement. In the second reading, probably if it is not the subject, the proposal from the Proposer will go with the amendment. I'll repeat what I said on the 5th of November when we talked, when it comes to amendments and additions to the law itself, I think this law is very, very good, it should, it's that the legal profession I'm on that side here on the matter can't give a metric opinion. And I'm glad that there's a very long, sharp, conservative approach, and when it comes to forest management and long term, it's very, very good. These remarks I mean with these property-legal relations should be defined in detail, that's my suggestion. And I believe that forests should be preserved as a national treasure, but they must also be in the function of man, they must be in function all of us, and in this way they have a purpose. Here's Mr. Vice President and Secretary of State so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37316	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Mr. Ivo Lonchar. He's also gone. And as last in the debate, Mr. Representative Damir Spanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37317	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, since I'm last and I'm already out of time, I'm going to try to make this part of my exposure as much as possible. The forests in the Republic of Croatia fill the economic and social function and have a significant impact on the quality of life of a large number of different habitats. Good forest management can increase the production of goods and services, thus helping to create additional jobs and raise living standards, as well as to arrange living-friendly spaces and environments. What the Republic of Croatia is particularly proud of and rich, it can be praised and what we must take good care of are water and forest. This good law will also contribute to the even better care and management of Croatian forests that we must preserve for the future for both economic and environmental national educational and other reasons. The area of forestry and wood industry is a significant source of employment especially in rural areas, which are precisely areas of particular national interest from which I represent the area. In these forest - rich areas, unfortunately, there are many problems resulting from war destruction and neglect in the management of forest surfaces during occupation. Now perhaps the opportunity with this law is to correct it and give great importance to the care of the forests. Article 3 states that forests and forest land are specific natural resources and require a specific way of managing and managing forests with generally beneficial forest functions. Article 3(2) states that the functions of the forest are reflected in the protection of land, roads and other objects from erosion, streams and floods of influence on the water regime, hydro-energy system and drinking water, creating favourable conditions for treatment, recovery, rest and recreation, development of tourism and hunting. In particular, Article 8 emphasises the need to avoid the cutting of rare endangered species of forest locusts and other species with berries and to protect and import them during the restoration of the forest. Article 19 clearly speaks about the distribution of profits by a company. And now what you'd like to look at in particular and look back. Article 47(2) states that the planning of forest roads requires adaptation to the environment and respect for tourism and recreational needs. This applies directly to the development of the economy and employment. In Article 47(3), it provides that a company to the legal and natural persons who manage forests is required before planning the construction and opening of new forest roads for such works to request the permission of the central authority responsible for environmental affairs, and I would be free to propose, along with consultation and one co-ordination with local self-government units precisely because of the development of tourism, recreation, and hence the employment and raising of living standards and sources of income. In Article 47(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 thereof, In the budget units of local self-government, which is required in accordance with the amount of funds paid and maintained. I therefore propose that because of the faster economic and general social equality of the Republic of Croatia, the areas developed and the areas of special state interest that will soon become, instead of the current 2.5% are paid into the budget of the unit of local self-government. By using 1% of the funds, it must be strictly dedicated with the control of the State audit and the Ministry of origin and in the event of unintended use of the local self-government unit, the funds paid are due. For example, the town of Pakrac and the town of Lipik, which is the annual income from forest contributions, so from the previous 2.5%, is about 230 thousand kuna on average. So the increase is about 30%, which means that both units of local self-government would get an average of about 70,000 kuna, and I suggest that 0.5% go for the order, so in what has been spent so far, editing forest infrastructure, and especially the removal of wild dumps because the process of reconstruction has destroyed a good part of the area under the woods and editing roads. We know that the war that lasted a long time in this area and occupation and destroyed some of the infrastructure, and 0.5% I suggest that it goes for the scholarship of highly educated experts, so VSS professions, because it's a chronic deficit in these areas for housing programs. Funding and implementing specific programmes related to ecology, botany, sport, recreation and nature care, and deepening awareness towards nature and national wealth, i.e. My country. The funds for editing the park woods if they are given to managing units of local self-government, which is an example of my city, co-financing of tourist communities etc. The projection of the increase should be made by the ministry and I hope that this will be a significant contribution to the remnant of young people in this area, which, with good programmes, can become an area of life-friendlyness. I note that this proposal increases 1% to five years. So who in five years doesn't take advantage of this if it's accepted, this kind of benefit will never be used, and that's still what I believe is one contribution to equating us to the war of the victims and those areas that fought during the Homeland War for all of us, so from other areas, but who thank God they were lucky enough not to be so destroyed in the Homeland War and certainly as my colleagues and the great majority today I support and praise this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37318	Thank you very much. Does the Secretary of State want it to be final? State Secretary Mr. Herman Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians, here at the end of today's debate of the Forests Act, I thank these discussions and in the preparation of material, or the law on second reading, we will study all today's remarks, all the suggestions, and we will propose an even better law than we have here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37320	Thank you very much. This is the end of today's debate. Tomorrow we will continue the session at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children. Good-bye and good-bye to everyone. Session interrupted at 18.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-19-0.u37321	Proposal for a forest law, P.Z.E. Number 293. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a forest law is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the proposed law has been passed, a conclusion with 87 votes for, 12 abstentions, one against. We also have a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to deliver before the debate on the final proposal for a forest law to all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in order to get to know the report on the state of the forest and forest land in the Republic of Croatia. Please...... No one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let's vote on that conclusion. We can vote. Score. Conclusion accepted by 80 for, 16 abstentions and 7 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It's on the agenda for 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 296. The Proposer is the Government. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Youth, Family and Sports and European Integration. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
