ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45596	And elections, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Selection Committee to appoint Ms. Nevenka Majdenic to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45597	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! At the 30th session held on 23 September 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on discharge and appointment of a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. First, a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia shall be dismissed at the proposal of the public scientific and research institutes of the Doctors of Science, Stjepan Marcellj, on a personal request. Secondly, as a member of the Management Board of the National Science, Higher Education and Technology Development Board of the Republic of Croatia, it is named on the proposal of the Public Scientific and Research Institutes Professor of Science Mladen Žinić Director of the Institute "Ruđer Bošković".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45598	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that, with 96 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45599	At the 31st session held on 28 September 2005, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Selection of a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Branimir Glavas is hereby dismissed. Secondly, an Ana Lovrin is elected as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45600	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 11 abstentions and 3 against, the proposed decision was made. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45601	Thank you. At the 31st session held on 28 September 2005, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament, Damir Spaincic, is being resolved. Secondly, a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45602	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 97 votes to make the proposed decision. Here's another suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45603	Thank you. At the 31st session held on 28 September 2005, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Selection of a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament Damir Spaincic is hereby dismissed. Second, a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45604	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. There's something wrong with the key. Is everything okay now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let's get on with it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am voting on this motion for a decision. You can vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. We're done voting. - Choices, appointments and resolutions. I would like the president of the Committee, representative Nevenka Majdenic, to explain the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45606	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 32nd session held on 12 October 2005, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the National Committee. First, members of the National Committee are relieved of their duties as representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Master of Science Davor Bozinović. Secondly, a member of the National Committee is appointed representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Hrvoje Cvitanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45607	Maybe you should give us a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45608	The President of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, by letter dated 6 October 2005, proposed that Croatia's Cvitanovic, head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, be appointed as the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the Decision establishing the National Committee referred to in point 1 is prescribed to establish, as a working body of the Croatian Parliament, the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia, and paragraph 3 of paragraph 2 of the Decision requires the appointment of 4 members to the Committee, representing the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the representative of the Academic Community, the representative of the Association of Employers and the representative of the trade union. The appointed members of the Board shall have all the rights of members of the working body other than the right to decide. The decision to appoint a president, vice-president and members of the National Committee has appointed a magistrate, so Davor Bozinović, head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, as representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, and the President of the Republic of Croatia named Hrvoj Cvitanović by a letter I read.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45609	Because Mr Davor Bozinovic, the former representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, has gone on second diplomatic duty. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45610	Thank you. At the 32nd session held on 12 October 2005, the Board for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the National Committee. First, the duties of members of the National Committee of the Association of Employers Darko Marinac, on personal request, and the second member of the National Committee are appointed representative of the Association of Employers Emil Tedeski, president of the Croatian Employers' Association. Explanation. The decision to set up a national committee referred to in point 1 shall provide for the establishment, as a working body of the Croatian Parliament, of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations in the Accession of the Republic of Croatia. In paragraph 3 of the decision, it is prescribed that four members be appointed to the Committee, representing the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, a representative of the Academic Community, a representative of the Association of Employers and a representative of the Union. The appointed members of the Board shall have all the rights of a member of the working body other than the right to decide. The decision to appoint a president, vice-president and members of the National Committee has appointed Darko Marinac, president of the Executive Committee of the Croatian Employers' Association as representative of the Employers' Association. Named Darko Marinac by letter dated 21 March 2005 addressed the Croatian Assembly and requested that it be relieved of its duties as a member of the National Committee for the reason that a new president of the Croatian Employers' Association was elected at the 4th session of the Croatian Employers' Association meeting, held on 16 March 2005. The Vice-President of the Council of Members of the Croatian Employers Association addressed the Croatian Assembly by letter of 21 March 2005 and informed that Emil Tedeski had been elected the new president of the Croatian Employers' Association at a meeting held on 16 March 2005, and proposed his appointment as a member of the National Committee as the new representative of the Employers' Association.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45611	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45612	Well, it's not clear to me here why we had to wait seven months to comply with the request of the Employers' Association to be represented on the National Committee. So on March 21st, as explained here, they sent a letter from an ex-member to resolve, or the Association sent a proposal for a new member, and we needed 7 months to come here today to the Parliament to appoint him, which means that in those 7 months the Croatian Employers' Association was not in the desired form represented in the National Committee. I think that's inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45613	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President. I'm closing the debate on this proposal for election and appointment. Here you go. This proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45614	At the 32nd session, held on 12 October 2005, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament from the order of representatives from the city of Rijeka, Alen Boskovic, is hereby dismissed. And secondly, as a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Assembly of the Order of Representatives of the City of Rijeka is named Master of Science Vojko Obersnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45615	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Committee. And now we have, as I said, a Decision on a proposal for a Decision appointing 5 councils, 5 members of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio-Television according to the proposal submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45617	Mr. President, on behalf of the club, please take 15 minutes to agree on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45618	Okay. Any other suggestions from the club? ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So like this, they have HDZ, SDP and HSP clubs. 15 minutes off. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with our work. The HDZ advocates' club asked for a break first. Here you go. Club president, respected Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45620	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has concluded that it is proposing and asking for the proposal to appoint these five members of the Programme Council to hold a debate at the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45621	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45622	Mr. President, the law lays down the procedure in which the proposal of the HRT Programme Council is made. That procedure is respected in all elements. The debate was held, a debate was held on individual committees and in the end, with a procedure which presented the alignment of the views of the clubs and proposals of the majority clubs and minority clubs, I am underlining the appointment by this Assembly of the five-member councils of the Programme Council to which the term of office has expired. In this sense, all the legal obligations are fulfilled as the procedure comes to this council. I underline that this decision has been taken with the consultation of the clubs of the majority and less, here once again to conduct the debate of this means in some way to question the own procedure and the own law that the Parliament itself has passed and in this delicate topic where only public political will should be expressed here to respect the democratic procedure that we have come to, to put a party agreement on its own, to question everything again. Since it is already widely heard, that there are initiatives to put pressure on the media and the HRT in various ways, this would in no way be in favour of the practice that we are calling for, among other things, on the practice that has already come to light when it comes to the need to amend the HRT Act and even on the conclusions of foreign experts and the OSCE in order to ultimately prove that there is nothing and that we have a law that has been founded and which has led to positive results. That is why I ask that, using your powers and your duties as president, do not let the debate, or not the debate, but that this point be moved in any way at the same time as the legal term of office of the five-member council, and since they and the representatives of the citizens, and the Assembly here is just the way to reach these representatives of citizens and civil society, the will of citizens is not satisfied. I warn that this could also have serious consequences not only politically but perhaps by the legitimacy of this House that it is unable to monitor its own procedures and its own laws. So I ask you, in full responsibility, that all clubs, I call here, of course, primarily the clubs of the parliamentary majority, to examine such a single decision in the context of the dangers that arise from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45623	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected Vice President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45624	Well, I think it's an incorrect claim that with the opening of the debate in this High House on candidates, it's a matter of procedure for reasons because yesterday, some new moments happened to us that require debates in this House of Commons. The Mother's Committee has made its decision here on the papers, but yesterday there was a new moment that we're looking for an actual debate and I think it's an incorrect assumption that no procedure is being questioned if we are discussing individual candidates in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45625	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45626	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Party's club invites representatives to behave responsibly on this case. We know that it is probably in the background of attempts to conquer Croatian television by HDZ and the ruling majority, which is inadmissible for the freedom of the media and everything else. Therefore, the procedure has been implemented in a legal manner, and we must not be brought into a situation where the 17th is left without the Programme Council and that would lead to all situations, and we are not to blame for the fact that point 16 means the Council's work report is not discussed, that is your problem and I think you could put it on the agenda. Therefore, do not try to win Croatian television and form a public opinion at a small door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45627	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Peace, please peace. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45628	Well, the correction is an incorrect assumption that HDZ wants to put under control Croatian radio-television. It's funny how you didn't say it wanted SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45629	And a second correction to an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45630	I'm correcting Mr. Representative's incorrect allegations to block the council's work. Namely, the majority of the council still has its mandate and can function normally, with more than one council meeting under the law at least once every three months. In three months, we will surely agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45631	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the 17th term of office of five members of the HRT Programme Council. The council is in session today. We have before us a proposal for a decision of the Committee on Information, Information and Media proposing the appointment of five members of the HRT Programme Council. The proposal was also established by the Committee on Selection, Information, Information and Media at its session held on 13 October. The procedure provided for in the law on how candidates are being reached has been completed, but there is no reason not to discuss the report and the proposal of the Committee on any proposal for any election and appointment or any other committee when it proposes, in accordance with the procedure, candidates for certain bodies elected or appointed by the Assembly, a debate shall be held so that the debate will also be held on this proposal. The parliament will not be put in a position and must not be put in a position not to discuss, established and voted on the proposals of candidates for the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council on 17 October and 18 October respectively. So we're going to have a debate. We're together, and after that debate, we'll vote. I'm opening a debate. Please let the representatives of the application clubs who want to take part in the debate. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community Ivan Jarnjak... first reported in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45632	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Democratic Community Club participated yesterday, last night in agreeing with the candidates for the Croatian Programme Council, as is the custom until now. So far and from now on, they will always respect such agreements, inter-partyly if there are no moments that need to be discussed in this House, and that moment that I'm talking about happened last night. Last night, therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community said, we propose 3 candidates, i.e. the majority in the Parliament, the minority proposes 2, agreed, agreed, and I think that's settled. Last night in the central journal, reporting on the meeting of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council, Mrs. Suzana Jasic, a member of the Programme Council and candidate for opposition for a new member of the HRT Programme Council, was in an inappropriate, incomprehensible way to attack the parliamentary representative of Mr. Andrija Hebrang for holding a meeting of the Croatian Parliament in critical terms of the report of the HRT Programme Council. As a result, a parliamentary representative of the Council has been appointed to whom the Council is responsible and to whom a report is to be submitted. Seeking, until then, by attacking him, and asking the Programme Council to decide to condemn Mr Hebrang's stand in the Croatian Parliament. If we've come this far, then the question is, who in this case is answering? Does this mean that the Programme Council will request tomorrow's report from the Croatian Parliament? About the work of the Croatian Parliament? If that's what that lady thinks, then she obviously doesn't know the real state of things. Therefore, we have debated this, even so far, that the director of Croatian broadcasting had to intervene and say that the parliamentary representative has the right, the democratic right to discuss how he assesses it and sees a particular report. After that, Mrs Susana Jasic, for the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mrs Susana Jasic is unacceptable as a candidate for the Programme Council. In doing so, the Croatian Democratic Community Club does not deny any right to have two members of these five and will agree, but this candidate we are talking about here and we are discussing, for the Croatian Democratic Community Club, because of the move in such a way is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45633	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45634	Mr. President, I was wondering what might be the reason for the attempt not to carry out that procedure that this House is bound to carry out and I couldn't think of and now I finally found out. And my club and me. And this is that new elements have come up, that these new elements are based on the assessment of one of the candidates who according to the HDZ Club, who allows himself the right to profile and choose not only his candidates but also other candidates who, therefore, are not in any way similar to that of being in the HRT Programme Council. There were several other interesting things, such as, among other things, that the Programme Council fits the Parliament. That means you don't know the elemental spirit of this law. The Programme Council through the report and only through the report corresponds to the Parliament, and it actually exists in order for public television to be public television, so that representatives of citizens, civil society, different institutions of which it consists, can make appropriate decisions on their own terms and responsibilities. I mean, to only protect software TV from various attempts to abuse it. It is amazing that, therefore, it is allowed to profile who should be an opposition candidate and that at the same time the right to allow one of the representatives is not allowed to be a member of the Programme Council. I don't want to be arbitrary, so now I want to interpret different grades that have been heard from different representatives both here in the Parliament and in the Programme Council. I think they're all legitimate. But if it's legitimate to attack critically, in some way recover and insult public television and individuals on that television, then I guess it's allowed to and such an answer to be heard... on public television. What we would do to ourselves from individuals from the Council, what we would allow ourselves, we feel that we cannot allow others. That's exactly the kind of attitude that this House must never accept. So, the words are to condemn Mrs Susana Jasic's stand for the HDZ Club. Why? Then why does Susana Jasic not have the right to condemn Mr. Andrija Hebrang's testimony? There's no sanctions here on either side. The public is what gives the sanctions and where the responsibility lies. And part of that responsibility is different opinions about certain things, but if someone thinks he's a better editor than editors on television, if someone thinks like we heard about it on the board that he's a better auditor than an auditor who sits there, if someone knows and thinks he's a better linguist than a linguist who's on public television, and then let someone there have the right to say what they think. So you, gentlemen, have discovered in this way that you have the need to profile and decide who will be not only on your behalf in this Council but on behalf of others. That's exactly what you should look at in all the political contexts as the practice of a part of a colleague who's heard from the side of the one you're sitting on. I call once again on the Parliament to be at the level of responsibility right now, not to enter the arbitration evaluations of such or such statements. All the candidates on the list came on the list through a public call. No one has disputed or has the right to dispute except by legal basis, which also provides for their similarity. Therefore, they are all equal. And if the opposition has decided on the two members it has decided on then cannot, the representatives of the parliamentary majority may not seek amendments based on their subjective assessment of the behaviour of individual MPs of individual parliamentary coalitions in the HRT Programme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45635	Thank you very much. Three correcting false allegations. Four. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45636	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I must correct one word, but it is very difficult and incorrect. Mr Vujic said that the HDZ Club takes itself for the right to assess that Mrs Susana Jasic is not similar and the HDZ Club did not mention it at any time but was said to be not professional and indeed not professional because she has replaced the thesis, if she thinks the Assembly will answer to her rather than to the Parliament, then she is indeed wrong and those who think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45637	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45638	It is incorrect that the Croatian Democratic Community wants to say who will propose the opposition. Because that is not true, the Croatian Democratic Community accepts who you propose but takes the right to discuss candidates and in this way we will continue to do as you have the right to discuss our candidates equally and you have debated and some have not even been accepted in the past. So you can't say that I said that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45639	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45640	Thank you very much. The Honorable Mr. Representative has said a number of incorrect allegations but for a short period of time only three. The abuse of HRT does not require and does not cause HDZ we are currently fighting for the objectification of the Croatian political council. And the second one was insulted by no one on the Committee but only by arguments and facts on the basis of his powers as a parliamentary representative. And third, why can't Mrs. Jasic criticise Parliamentarian Andrija Hebrang, her right is not disputed but according to Article 5. The HRT Act must objectively report this means it must give the other side a chance to plead, and we have never experienced this on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45641	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jagoda Martincevic Majska.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, it's an incorrect assumption that we're looking for a change, we're looking for a debate and we have the right to look for it, I'll just remind you that last night or yesterday that session of the Committee was called very quickly, very strangely, no one informed me, I've been five minutes since the Parliament could come, no one alive all day with both phones fixed and mobile, so much about it. I fear that the criteria of democracy in this case are applied differently. If I just remember that committee before we discussed the report with financial and programming whatever we said we always got a replica that it was against the media, against the freedom of the media that we are endangering democracy on Croatian radio. I don't see what we'd be endangering that so-called. Democracy if we speak our mind. I did that if you remember Mr. Vujica and I said that I wouldn't allow myself to be imputed to tear something down, I'm not tearing anything down, but I want a free debate. Especially about the media we know is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45643	Thank you very much. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives here is obviously a dispute over one candidate. No one agrees with the majority group and the minority is finished. We have opened the debate and every club, we are not a body, the Croatian Parliament is not a body that will only vote as a payment order on some candidates' proposals, we have also voted on proposals and for the president of the Croatian Parliament and vice presidents, the presidents of the parliamentary committees of all individuals and bodies in all other bodies appointed and discussed who appoints the Croatian Parliament. The position of a club is expressed here why they hold and the reasons why they oppose the election of one of the candidates and we are having a debate, we will vote after this debate. Club of representatives of HSLS DC LS Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45644	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that this is being discussed I think there is not one person that the Croatian Parliament should propose without having a public debate and that some people say their differences with the proposal itself, that they are ultimately publicly questioned whether they are public duties. I would, on behalf of the club, make a procedural methodological mistake here, it is that we are discussing two people who are obviously, one being here disputed, and it seems to be the most conductive debate, however, there is another person that is Mr. Zdenko Ljevak and Mrs. Susana Jasic they were members of this Programme Council in the current term and there are three other people whose biographic data we have here. I think we're making a mistake because in this session we had a point 16 on the agenda where we had to discuss, we actually had a report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programming principles. It was logical that, first of all, this discussion should be made to comment if anyone has them in respect of programming principles, these two persons are in this programme council, therefore they have contributed to the success or failure to comply with programming principles, so it seems to me that we have made one big mistake here, so we have come into this situation, whether it was planned to come into this situation, however, this situation has to come up in some way and in a way that this public debates these people about their impact. I personally have objections and I have heard from many other people about the work of the Programme Council on respecting programming principles. I believe we have had the opportunity to present most of the parliamentary representatives with our observations. For example, I will indicate where I personally experienced a lack of respect for programming principles. For example, a while ago, Prime Minister Sanader and a team of ministers were in Slavonski Brod, which was indeed for us Slavons, for Slavonski Brod for Posaviaks, it was really great news and we ultimately benefited greatly from this visit in our area. You know, when we were somewhere near the end of the Diaries very minorly, we were very little, it was shown to the Croatian public that the prime minister came into a Slavonic ship that gave great sacrifices in the Homeland War, few of whom knew what we had suffered were found here in the end. I suppose there was no respect for the programming principles, you had other reports where so little things were placed in the first minute of the journal were given to them by far greater importance, etc. Another remark, my personal, on April 1st here I had a verbal conflict with my colleague Stazic, I did not watch it, but others say, in the first minutes of the journal I was given 10 seconds and my colleagues Stazić was given a few minutes, I was hanged in it, where there are programming principles, where there are professional principles, where there are ethical principles. Therefore, there is certainly reason for all of us to discuss the conduct of these standards, which depends on what perceptions people will have of every politician and this House, and therefore I advocate that we go in some order if possible, if we have to stay here for longer time to discuss, I am at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45645	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a debate on the work of the HRT Programme Council. The report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on Programmes with the report on the work of the Directorate was included in the agenda of this session and should be discussed this week as well. ... We have a resolution on the accession of negotiations to the European Union, we have extended the debate, there have been other topics, so that this topic has not come to the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please concentrate on the debate, it is exclusively about the position of one club that contests the selection of one of the five proposed candidates and presents its reasons which are tied up because a member of that Committee who discussed the report on the work of the HRT Council when it was on the agenda of the parent board qualified his statement as a proposed candidate and member of the HRT Council, and that is all. Please concentrate on that part of the debate. On behalf of the club, and it was already on behalf of the club, well, don't ask for a break, because then we'll, uh, we'll take your word for it, so I'll give it to you real quick. ... Easy, easy, easy, wait, buddy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Slowly, the first breaks need to be explained why you are looking for breaks in the Rules of Procedure, but let's not react, colleague Racan, do not react impulsively. Here, I'll give you my word, please. You want a break or, you want a word earlier. ... What do you need a break for? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Don't make it harder for all of us to work with different people, we'll stay a little longer than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45646	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I remind myself, first of all, of a situation where we were on television, Mr. Vladimir Seks and I and the mentioned Mrs. Jasic. Then on a small screen she strongly attacked Hansel Racan and it was a public matter, Mr. President, you were as present as I was. It never occurred to me to take a negative view of her as a person. So far, it has not occurred to me to take a negative position in the event of a deal between clubs because we do not like one proposal from the HDZ Club or another club that is not the HDZ Club. Of course, it is possible to discuss any proposal, including the proposal resulting from an inter-party agreement, and we had an inter-party agreement ahead of us. It is possible in that debate to say, we do not like the attitudes of this man and that man and that lady. But I'm asking a very serious question here with far-reaching consequences, whether this request from the HDZ Club means not only a debate on a candidate from which opposition clubs stand but also a disapproval to be their representative, a vote that he can't be a representative. That's two different things. If it is only a debate with Mrs Jasic's views that I do not have to agree with, as many others do not have to. It is one thing, but if it is a refusal to respect the inter-party agreement and not to vote in that agreement of the proposed members or one member, then it is another situation and I warn it is a dramatic new situation which we inaugurate not only... It's three steps back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would pray that such a development doesn't happen. If it happens then I want to say that we're all going to have to think together about how we behave in this new situation. This means that no mutual agreement makes sense, and that means that we can take down any possible proposal because someone for a valid or unwarranted reason with the attitudes of the man we are proposing disagrees. I don't think that's the kind of step this Assembly should take. If he does, I beg you to consider the consequences, I see some far-reaching coincidences.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45647	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Information Information and Media discussed the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles. As a member of that committee, I think also the Vice-President of the Committee discussed the report on the work of the HRT Council, which was on the agenda of the Committee meeting and which was to be discussed in this Chamber after that meeting. There has been an agreement on all five candidates, in a way, on the HRT Programme Council yesterday, a verdict came from the opinion of the Committee member, Andrija Hebrang, who discussed programming, on the report on the work of the HRT Council, proposing that the entire programme council condemn the debate of MPs in the Assembly and vice-presidents of the Committee and members of the Committee. And that's why this position is critically expressed. You can't fix me, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't do me by the Rules of Procedure, you can't. ... No, that, how so, so it's all very well here, right, so we watched it all, who was watching that, well that's what everybody's saying right here right now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club. Don't tell anyone who answered, who answered, that's where it was put. Well, gentlemen, colleagues here, how's somebody nice applying, so put it on, what's up, why are you getting upset? Are you accusing me of now moving or moving different applications around clubs? I'm not doing it, nor is it for the assistant secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45648	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll probably speak differently here than you all do because the HNS-PGS Club didn't propose any candidates we just wanted to respect the law and respect the procedure. And I, as a member of the Committee, thought in any case that we had respected the procedure and that we had done what was in accordance with the law. That's how it was on the board, so I'm informed. I know that it has been said that, in line with the views, it has been said that the ruling HDZ will give 3 members, that the opposition will give 2 members, and in any case we considered at that Committee session when we unanimously made such a decision that this proposal will come to the Assembly and that we will respect what we have always respected in the Assembly, which is that the interparty agreement is respected. But it turns out that we don't have to respect it today and I wonder if there's any point in making any arrangements in the future and whether it makes sense to have that division that we represented a long time ago. And I wonder if everyone's personal frustrations will come to the agenda of the parliamentary session. We want to vote on these five candidates because it is a respected procedure and a law respected and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45649	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45650	Thank you very much. Mr. President, it keeps repeating itself, and Mr. Agent, that we don't respect an inter-party agreement that's not true. The circumstances that we call upon were created after we reached an interparty agreement. Therefore, the new environment also imposes new agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45651	Thank you. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45652	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is kind of a good time because he's testing us. Both us here and us in public and us in public. Whether a social consensus on such important things as the issue of national, state television is built by a fierce challenge and by trying to break things over the knee or by the long-term alignment that is visible or not seen. I'm for this second one. Because these first ways have been a lot over the last 15 years. And this other thing is something that we have to practice in this thing as well as in any other of that kind of importance. And now allow me two words to say. The circumstances to which our colleagues from HDZ, the partners of the club I belong, are not enough for this kind of debate. No, they're not. It is a kind of public debate between someone who is a respectable member of a public forum such as our colleague Hebrang and such as Mrs Jasic, who is also a member of civil society and who is a member of the Council and who as such has certain views on the Programme Council and the relationship between councils and political figures that by definition have power. And it should by definition do everything to protect its forum and its Council and public television institution from the influence of power if it recognises that there is a potential intention or intention. And as it is ours to try to win as much power as possible in the interest of our beliefs and our voters, so it is hers to limit that power as possible in accordance with her mandate as representative of the voice of civil society. I really don't see any serious dispute that would be worth it, which would be worth it unless eventually we have no objection to rhetoric, but on the scale of things, we can't have an objection. Susana Jasic is one of the prominent people in the civil sphere of our society. I'm okay with it or not. Approved me of that fact or not. I assume that many of us have both good and bad experience with her, as has already been said here. I could set examples myself when I didn’t do well in the grades that came from that side. Because of his political position. Not because I think of myself or what I do or intend to do. But that's not why that area, that sphere of social life, is what we're trying to do on our part not to challenge but to try to get the Parliament to conquer it. Each of us for what he does, each of us for what he says was as a member of the Committee was ultimately responsible for it himself. It wasn't colleagues and colleagues from HDZ that challenged HDZ as a club. There was no dispute over this High House, nor was it about challenging HDZ as a party. No, I don't. It was a discussion between two prominent persons of the Croatian political or civil sphere. Are we going to tell us now that this is to be banned? Are we saying that it disqualifies not one of them that's involved in it? Well, we can't say that. Nor can Hebrang disqualify it if he is convinced firmly in his belief nor can he disqualify Yashica if she is firm in her conviction. So I'm dealing with pretty basic issues. And in that sense, colleagues and colleagues, I think that in our public, it would be no good to accept the fact that we here in this House are trying to determine that the voice of civil, civil society, civil NGOs in our society will react to what we as political figures are doing. If we use the Parliament or the parliamentary majority to do so, we will be seen as people who have no understanding of civil society, who have no understanding of the autonomy of these spheres of society, and will necessarily experience it. It will necessarily be seen as an attempt to reduce pluralism of voices, opinions, views, assessments of what must be in every society. In this respect, the SDSS Club considers that it is necessary to return to harmonised proposals that this dispute may continue in the public domain. It may continue at certain points in this Assembly but should not be a reason for dissipating the agreement that has been reached, because it can indeed produce consequences that will not only remain to be broken down by this particular motive.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45653	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45654	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's incorrect that it was a discussion between two people. Mr Hebrang's parliamentary representative drew critical attention to the work of the Croatian Television and Reports of the HRT Programme Council. Not a single member of the HRT Programme Council. The Committee did not adopt a positive or negative opinion on this report. Mrs. Susana Jasic explicitly called Mr. Hebrang and his debate, and there's that difference. That she was discussing the Committee, the debate, but she named the name and name of the person who dared to discuss the report negatively. There's a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45655	And the esteemed representative, Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45656	Thank you, Mr. President. The debate of a respected colleague, Pupovac, sounded very logical, however, was based on a completely wrong assumption. He was talking about the right of two public figures to discuss anything and I'll always stand up for it, but this wasn't about it. This was about a person acting in a particular function asking that body on the contrary, to prohibit another public person from thinking, moreover, the right to work. Because that's what he said as a representative and a member of the board. And that's why Mr. Pupovac's debate is based on the wrong foundations and has completely come to the wrong conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45657	There's no replica. National Minority Club, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Not even this other fellow bud.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45658	Mr. President, dear colleagues. I'm going to start by saying that the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the programme council report and that there were no critical tones and that we unanimously accepted it. There were no critical tones for anyone, nor for Mrs. Susani Jasic. Then there's the fact that the whole thing remains then the fact of the lady, to no one's name there was no criticism, that's right. So the fact remains that today, at this point, we have decided to debate again, that we have decided to open the debate, which was not foreseen in this item of the agenda only on the basis of one fact, on the basis of one criticism which is referred to at one point, which may be appropriate or inappropriate, perhaps it is inappropriate, one criticism which is addressed to the opinion and a statement by one representative. We think it's not enough to discuss one person, be careful now at this point we're discussing whether one person can behave. We at the National Minorities Club think that's not enough. It's not enough that, don't get me wrong right now, but that sounds like a judgment of a member of the Programme Council. If, as Mr Hebrang said correctly before, if the opinion of a member of the Programme Council was released on television and Mr Hebrang's opinion is not required, it is not Mrs Jasic's fault, it is television's fault. And we can really talk about television. But whether, however, it is stated and said that a member of the Programme Council cannot express, and even a very critical opinion about the representative and what the representative said to the parent body. We object to such an argument. I think it's counterproductive for those who initiated this debate and you'll see it in public tomorrow, but that it's counterproductive for you, you'll see tomorrow how the debate is going. We are in front of a member of the Programme Council and candidate for a future programme council running from a respected institution. Of one institution dealing with the development of democracy, one institution supported by other institutions and associations and associations also dealing with human rights. And that's why we think it's really too much to deal with right now whether one statement, even if it was strong, is one statement enough for us to change something that was set, not to say interparty agreement, because it's also prescribed by procedure, but for me, forgive me, it's less important than the Parliament procedure that passed the committee procedure. We from the National Minorities Club will certainly vote, club members will vote on their conscience if there is a vote on the problem. Someone will vote for, someone will vote against, someone will be held back, and someone like me will not participate in such a vote at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45659	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45660	Thank you very much. The Honored Mr. Representative said the following incorrect sentence: "It is not Mrs. Jasic's fault for what happened." She's guilty because of article 19. The HRT Act says that the control of the legality of HRT's work is carried out by the HRT Council, and it is a member of the HRT Council. And in her own step, she sinned about Article 7. The law on HRT which says: "HRT is obliged to inform truthfully, fully and impartially.". What is impartial information if you give only one page? So she acted against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45661	The second amendment, a respected representative, Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45662	It is not true that we challenge Mrs. Yashish's not being able to publicly criticize, here in this case the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. But we argue that she's asking the Programme Council to condemn Andrija Hebrang's statement, which means she's incompetent because she doesn't know the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45663	HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45664	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This scenario has already been seen at the beginning of the assembly when it came to the appointment of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, then Tonci Tadic was unsuitable to us. And we had one whole problem, we barely got out of that situation, and in the end I thought that reason had prevailed, that he had returned to the assembly and that we would stick to the principle if we had a deal. Because it's the essence of democracy. So, the deal was I, three members giving the ruling majority, two giving the opposition. So let's stick with that. You gave three members, we gave two members. You can't condition who we give to our two members. We made a deal, we gave it, and it's okay, it's okay. Those are the principles. If we're going this way now, you're going back to the Tonchi Tadic case that was inappropriate. Now she's unbecoming. It's a very bad message to everyone in the Programme Council, if you don't be good, we'll replace you. Yeah, that's unfortunately so, that's right. So let's go back. Let's be reasonable about everything else. So it is not Mrs. Jasic's fault that Croatian television did not allow on TV Dnevnik to Mr. Hebrang's point of view. Basically she did, HTV made it possible because his position was transmitted to all the media. So let's not talk like that. So, don't bring us here so that we have to determine the opposition of a member who suits you. Well, we're opposition. We're not the ruling majority. So stick to the principle, don't come back from the beginning every time. So now she's not like her, she used to be Tonchi Tadic. Who's going tomorrow? Someone new from the Program Council. Let's agree on principles and democracy. It's not democracy what you want now. It's a consensus. You know what consensus means, that we have to agree on everything, 3, 2, it's clear. And now that I've heard further criticism and at Mr. Racan's expense and she's had us on Mr. Pupovac, the point is clear. She's there not to raise her hand but to openly say how she feels about it. So we want to ban members of the Programme Council from saying anything. So let us be reasonable and stick to what we have agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45665	Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative, Vice President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45666	I am correcting Mr Kovacevic's allegations when he said that at the very beginning of the session of this House there was a failure to comply with the agreement. It was not in the case of the election of Mr Tadic but failure to comply with the agreement was in the election of the president and vice-president of the parliament when seven or eight HSP deputies voted against the election of President-in-Office, although the agreement was whether it was either the HDZ and the two vice-presidents of the parliament. So I am correcting Mr Kovacevic so much that this was before the election of Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45667	The second correction by the esteemed representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45668	Well, I will say to my respected colleague Kovčević that it is not true because Mrs Jasic's statement is in no way harmless to us, and I would say on the contrary that the statement to the lady she gave, in fact to whom she sought the entire Programme Council condemns the testimony of our representative, Mr Andrija Hebrang, is absolutely disqualifying Mrs Jasic to perform this important duty. She calls directly and in advance and asks for a conviction for all of us who will discuss tomorrow's report to the HTV Programme Council when she comes to this House session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45669	Third correction, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45670	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacevic used one term that I thought was missing, disappeared from daily politics from everyday life, and that's an unsuitable term. None of us think Mrs. Jasic is anything like that. No one's even... No, he didn't say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, he didn't say, you can't listen gentlemen. We have only all concluded together that Mrs Jasic, unfortunately, does not know the rules by which she should play as a member of the council. She doesn't know those rules, and you heard her quote all of Mr. Hebrang's articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45671	And the esteemed representative, Miomir Zuzul, is the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45672	Thank you, Mr. President. The debate of an esteemed fellow MP seemed to me as well as several other debates stemmed from a false assumption. Mrs. Jasic performed publicly on behalf of the institution in which she acts as a certain function, and the law defines what she should do on behalf of the institution with her rights and obligations. There is no mention in this law that it is the right to criticise parliamentarians for their work, and the fact that it took place on behalf of the institution shows the fact that it took advantage of that institution because it appeared on the same evening at an institution that it is required under the law to control.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45673	Thank you. I'm opening an individual debate. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45674	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am uncomfortablely surprised by the abuse of our actions by individuals who believe that we consider Mrs. Susan Jasic inappropriate, we do not want her because of some of her beliefs, etc. We all respect her. She is the president of a respected association, she has been elected by this House to act as members of the council and we have therefore supported on the Committee on Media the proposed minority coalition to be their member. However, after that, Mrs Jasic committed law violations in at least three articles and a whole series of other articles, but I will quote only three. First of all, she committed an injury to Article 18, paragraph 9, where she said, "The members of the HRT Council" and Mrs Susana Jasic "should be public employees" which is "that advocate respect for democratic principles". It's not a democratic principle to attack someone who doesn't have a chance to defend himself. It also injured Article 9 of the same article, which said: "A member of the HRT Council must advocate protection of freedom of expression". I repeat "for the protection of freedom of expression". I, as a parliamentary representative, used the right to freedom of expression and instead of protecting it, she attacked it, wronged the fundamental law on which she was elected and acted her duty. Furthermore, after the inter-party agreement, Mrs Jasic sinned on the following article. For example, Article 19. The HRT Act says that "the HRT Council oversees the implementation of programme principles" or the same article says that "the HRT Council has an obligation to determine the legality of HRT's work". In the legality of HRT's work stands the public of work, the equality of all to participate, it has made a mistake and has not acted on it because it has not given me the opportunity to explain to me at the same time why I was talking, what I was talking about and what I was talking about. Finally, Mrs. Susana Jasic has sinned and it is, in fact, the scariest thing right now, about Article 58. Article 58 puts it this way: "The supervision of the legality of the work of the HRT Council is carried out by the Croatian Parliament." So I acted as a representative and member and vice-president of the Committee and discussed the Council's counter-zealous work, and when it comes to this debate, I will argue why I consider it to be illegal. This is my legal obligation to supervise the legality of the work of the HRT Council and I have listed what is illegal in the HRT Council Report, which is illegal in the Financial Business Report, so the Director's report, of course, that I couldn't even count everything for a short period of time, will be an opportunity for this debate. I believe that a parliamentary representative must respect the laws this House has passed. If the Parliament says and adopts a law such as Article 58 that supervision of the legality of an institution is for the sake of the Croatian Parliament, then the MP is obliged to respect that and when he considers that the institution is doing so against the law to say so. And on the board, one of the board members here, present and present, told me that I had no right to speak. I told him that I think that time had passed with the 30th of May 1990 elections and I used my right to speak about the illegality of the Council's work, which again under the law has opened up our report on work and I see no reason for such Mrs Jasic to violate the basic articles of the law on which she herself works in that Council to extend her mandate and we will propose and accept any other member of the opposition group if... Let me finish. I haven't run out of time yet. You're out of it. Any person who, pursuant to Articles 18, 19 and other members of the HRT Act, fits in, but cannot choose a member who cannot be a member of that HRT Council under the law. Well, we can't break the law we've passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45675	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45676	A colleague, Hebrang, said he was unable to voice his opinion contrary to Mrs Jasic's opinion. That's not true. Hebrang, a colleague, has imposed the entire Croatian Parliament on him to deliver his opinion, has raised his party and has put up with us who spend budget money here to defend his public opinion. Therefore, it is not true, Mr Hebrang, that you did not have the opportunity to state your opinion because at this moment the entire Parliament is being held up in debate about whether you are right or right Mrs Jasic, in a debate which was public character. And second, the second thing I want to make right. Neither Milorad Pupovac nor Andrija Hebrang are Croatian Parliament nor is Suzanne Jasic the Program Council. The Croatian Parliament determines the legality or illegality of the Programme Council on the basis of reports submitted to the Croatian Assembly which we did not discuss in the way we may have been able to, but we have estimated that we have no need. Well, we didn't do that. It is, therefore, not in any form illegality but simply a matter of the fact that we are involved in a public debate and this public debate between the two individuals of different political and social status. She's indicative, she's significant, but it's not about any violations or any illegalities. Not from either one, for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45677	Gentlemen and ladies, according to Article 51. Where a report or proposal is submitted to the Assembly, the working body shall designate a rapporteur to explain the position of the working body. The position of the working body is being debated and this debate is being held right now. The debate is being held. I am not authorized, nor am I able to disable the debate on the proposal of a working body. Honorable representative of Shima Lucin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45678	Thank you very much. So incorrect are all the allegations that Mr. Hebrang made in... Mrs. Jasic broke any article of the law, especially that she did not allow Mr. Hebrang to give her opinion. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] As far as I'm aware, Mr. Hebrang has kept his opinion for some 2, 3 months. Not just today around Croatian TV. So let's just say that I don't see at all disputed Mrs. Jasic speaking her opinion on Mr. Hebrang's opinion. Because I'm afraid there's actually a controversy here about the right to an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45679	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45680	Mr. President, it is very difficult to correct the incorrect allegations there when they are in general and there when they are given by the person who told them about herself here in this House, I always speak, or I never lie only sometimes do I not tell the truth. Which is where Mr. Hebrang forgot, but it's indicative that this one, that that sentiment doesn't sound like it, but maybe sometimes I don't tell the whole truth. So, since you are Mr. Hebrang to yourself and defined yourself as you speak, so are your statements. And among other things,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45681	My colleague Vujić, please, limit yourself to, do not limit yourself to correcting the incorrect allegations, do not qualify for the character and valuable courts of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45682	I was just quoting how, what Mr. Hebrang thought of himself. So please, and if something is going to be called against the law how and where to set up a statement that is now on a direct day, that the work of the Council is an anti-zaconite. Will Mr. Hebrang, if the word of the Council is found not to be against the law, submit any conjecture alone? Is he going to resign from this House? Or he thinks that he has the right to say this without someone else having the right to say that his arbitrary installation of data that has been completely used in a slow way and used in a way that is unsuspecting and untrue to each other does not have the right to show as an incorrect data display.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45683	Comrade Vujic, please. This is not about critical opinion and disputing any critical opinion. It's about expressing an opinion in the MPs. And I will allow every MP to express his opinion on this subject under discussion. But then don't qualify any person, any MPs with valuable courts on the value and character of his testimony. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45684	Incorrectly, counterpart Hebrang claimed that Mrs Jasic violated the provision of Article 18.9. The law on Croatian broadcasting because it did not respect democratic principles and the rule of law, etc. She has just stood up and used this provision, so she has performed her duty, but we know by habit how they pass here at the current moment of Croatia that respects the law. They're being disqualified right now. It is, therefore, the one who is precisely the basis of Article 18(9) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union who has stood up to protect freedom of expression. That's exactly what this provision is about. Furthermore, you cannot simply as you claim to be unacceptable to Susana Jasic. Article 18(6) speaks in its own words, even if the clubs don't agree, you have to accept the opposition's proposals, even if you don't like them. This is referred to in Article 18(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on Croatian broadcasting. Otherwise, this whole debate is being held in one spirit, I would say, there is a Kafkian process against Susana Jasic because she has dared to use her right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45685	Comrade Antičević, this goes beyond that measure and please don't put me back in a position that I have to take some unpopular moves. What Kafkian process? We're discussing it. We're discussing it. You want to disqualify in advance, you want to disqualify every debate. The Parliament is discussing the Report and proposals of all its working bodies. And people's solutions and debates, and then don't let the opinions that are meant to be qualified in advance as some kind of heretic opinion, like the Kafkian process and the like. Why? Everyone has a right to their own opinion, but you can't qualify someone else's opinion in the way they qualify. Because that's what you're contesting, that means a stealthy and unconscious introduction of a matter of opinion. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45686	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague of Hebrang. That Mrs Jasic had not given him the opportunity to respond to her statements. She couldn't even do it. It is true, too, that it was found illegal. It's not established, let's not play the court here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45687	Thank you. Dear Representative Miomir Zuzul, and within 18 and 48 hours, the time for individual debate for 10 minutes on this subject has expired. Here you go. ... Yes, you're right, I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45688	After the opening presentation of representatives of the HDZ Club and colleagues of Andrija Hebrang, it seems to me, indeed, that because of the delicacy of the opinion of colleagues, Suzana Jasic is not fit to be a representative of the opposition in one body to be monitored by public television. So, by standing up for the Council for its opinion, by trying other colleagues and colleagues on the council to vote on her opinion, it is determined here that she worked illegally and did not know the laws. No, she advocated her opinion, it's her right, it's even more her obligation on behalf of the citizens to advocate her opinions and defend the public's interest. But if we tell her she doesn't know the law and she doesn't know what the Croatian television is about, I ask myself if the other candidates know that, whether HDZ tested its three candidates whether they knew the HRT Act and they passed that test, so they know it. Do we have phonograms from the Council's session, so we know who was saying what he was saying, or do we have statements from all these candidates today about what someone was saying about someone, so it's like that, there's no such thing as inappropriate statements in that. Let's make a list of you from HDZ and tell those in the Council of HRT about whom you can and in what way nice, and who you can and in which way you speak uglyly, but here you don't even say it was nice or ugly, but simply a colleague of Suzana Jasic stood up for her opinion, defending the very establishment of public television in which the HRT Council is sitting, she defended that dignity, she did not act illegally, and this is really about a delicacy of opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45689	I recommend my book that bears that name, on a fraction of opinion, opinion is a thought process while it's in a man's head and only when it comes out is the opinion expressed. It's been sold out. I'd have to print it again. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45690	Thank you very much. I wanted something about a misjudged opinion, since a new edition will be printed then you don't have to. But I would answer and replicate my colleague Mrs Jasic used the right to her opinion, and I took advantage of the right to my opinion, and this opinion could not have come to the HRT programme even as much as possible in the Dnevnik programme in any information programme programme, it was not said that the parent board refused to accept the HRT Council report by majority of votes but was told for other committees which are not parent that most votes were accepted. Even here a public opinion is being created because it is not allowed to express the opinion of the parent board, Mrs Susana Jasic knew that the parent board rejected their report and therefore used her position as a monopoly to go on a television that I can't go on for several years, except for imaginary affairs and therefore she was wrong about the law, because she is overseeing the very politics of that television that must be objective and true, this one was not because she had not given the other party to speak but was criticising my opinion and it is a part of my colleagues' opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45691	Dear Representative Miomir Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45692	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that this conversation has brought about a whole series of replacements of thesis, wrong settings, and I find it entirely wrong to assume what democracy is, which is the right to freedom of opinion, which are institutions and what is institutional protection of democracy. And as it seems to me during this debate there was a tendency to talk about Andrija Hebrang let me immediately say my debate was not about the parliamentary representative of Dr. Andri Hebrang, whom I greatly appreciate, I respect, I am his friend and party colleague, but I'm sorry, this isn't about him. This is about a person who has been nominated by a leading institution, which is, of course, her right to be in a public office that needs to act on behalf of the public and citizens. I read Mrs. Jasic's résumé I know something about her public work and without any remorse, without any other thought that last night I would vote for her to remain in place in the HRT programme council. I'd have a little problem, it's a little unusual for me to extend our mandate to people without having discussed how the Programme Council worked before, but let's just say for a number of reasons, it might have been accepted. However, from yesterday to today, from last night to this day, at least two things have happened that have proved to me that a distinguished lady or a lady does not actually meet the criteria laid down by the law and more than the law, that kind of function that she should behave. She did not enter the public controversy with someone she is of course entitled to, she asked the body in which we now want to choose to ban one public figure more than the parliamentary representative from expressing his opinion on the body for which he is Mr Vujic, democratically elected to control him. Otherwise, I find your interpretation of democracy in which some candidates are not allowed to be debated in the Assembly and some proposals, and I find it equally odd that your interpretation of democracy in which some fictitious citizenship, not democratically elected institutions, has the right to determine what can and cannot be. So in my opinion, that's the first reason why tonight, unlike last night, I can't vote for Mrs. Jasic. The second reason is that the one chosen once and now should once again be chosen to monitor the public used and probably some kind of opportunity appeared on that public television to criticise someone else, a public person without granting them the right to answer. Because what Mr. Pupovac said was that Mr. Hebrang has the right to answer tonight, so forgive me, we've confused everything that's television, which is a Parliament which is democracy at the very end of the day. The democracy is that we have the right to say, that we have the right to make known about the candidates and that we have the right to ask that they do their job by respecting both the attitudes and the laws on which they are elected. I'm based on these two facts and a lot of what's been said tonight can't give a vote for such a candidate because I don't believe he's unbiasedly acting his function, and besides this clear polarization, I think he's showing everyone what he is, a sapient clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45693	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45694	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect allegation from fellow MPs that this isn't about Mr. Hebrang, I think it's about him and his injured vanity, because I Mr. Zuzul said that by last night he would have voted for her, and now after last night her statement doesn't want to vote for her. So it's obviously an individual that nobody here has said that HDZ's policy is injured, but actually one person who's hurt, and now you have to defend that person. Second, as far as polarization is concerned. It's true! That's an opposition proposal, not yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45695	The second amendment. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45696	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, it is an incorrect assumption that this is about Suzanne Jasic. The Parliament discusses principles and double standards. Here it turns out that the Law only has the right to interpret... a person and that if we now allow the law to interpret... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a person, a parliamentary representative to a person who is the same public person and this is confirmed by the right of a parliamentary representative who is a message to not strong persons in Croatia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the message to non-strong people in Croatia? How will they get to the law? Let's not argue that we're judges and we're the only ones who are correct in interpreting the law. The double criteria in expressing their opinion cannot pass in this House, I am convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45697	This was one comment. ... He wasn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I listen very carefully so I don't understand. You were probably impressed with the speech, so you weren't totally following. Dear Representative Antun Vujic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45698	Please, Mr. President, I would like Mr. Zuzul to tell you where it is and when and what words, since this is what his Mrs. Susana Jasic said that she wants to prohibit Mr. Hebrang's right to speak, you said so. Where did you hear the word that she wanted to ban...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45699	Your colleague Vujic is unable to correct the incorrect quote to ask the representative a question. [[Where's that said? Or do you have any information that we don't have?]] No, it's not going too bad!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45700	... The same thing I heard, because I guess he watched the same diary as me. [[Specially enabled.]] That's how you plant it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45701	And distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45702	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that colleague Jasic took advantage of the influence so that she could be in Dnevnik yesterday. Well, I don't suppose my colleague Žužul thinks that colleague Jasic arranged yesterday's Dnevnik, that she set the minute exactly, that she set out a tone excerpt from the Council session and that she banned the editor of Dnevnik and the editor-in-chief of HTV from taking advantage of her ability to present the other side in this. So it's not about Susana Jasic then we need to think about what's going on with all the TV and not... Say that to your colleagues and colleagues! [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You actually, you actually turn the whole thesis. You, on the principle of Susana Jasic, want to discuss not a colleague, Susana Jasic, but a whole TV program. But that is on our Parliament's agenda. Therefore, do not sacrifice Susan Jasic for another debate, but rather talk about the principle and let us discuss the report on the work of the radio television council.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45703	My colleague, Mršić, I have the impression that you are correcting some plural. You say, did you say that to Representative Zuzul, but I sensed that you were speaking, you as one plural? Dear Representative Slaven Letica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45704	I've already left, and I'd expect the president to have a mild apology for respecting my request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's not polite to discriminate negatively, the other positively. As far as I'm concerned, I mean giving a word to a respected colleague named Ivica Racan, before and beyond the Rules of Procedure. I want to believe that this debate can end something good regardless of the raised passions and tones. It can end well if you defend principles. I think the position from which the HSP started is almost unquestionable, so it is the unquestionable right of opposition to propose two of its members to such a Council. In order to challenge this right of opposition, the reasons must be very large, but they always exist. So if there is a lack of information or new circumstances are so strong that it can be questioned by the qualification of a resident, then there is the possibility of a compromise, which is why I am a little surprised by the timidity of counterpart Antun Vujic when discussing this topic. I will say that there are serious reasons why I will speak beyond these reasons that he spoke of by fellow Hebrang who question the qualification of Susana Jasic for respecting, in respect of demographic principles, which is a legal condition for such a person to be in that place. I must say that I support Frana Piplovic's position to make this very good if we had decided after the debate on the Programme Council, because I have serious objections to other candidates, unfortunately, too, I would like to have objections to these other candidates. Namely, there are two objections to Mr. Leviak. The first is that in the report on the work of the Programme Council, he has denied a separate opinion in the Croatian public of a well-known and respected publisher, meaning his competitor Ante Zuzul, who insisted that his separate opinion on the work of the Council be attached and that parliamentary representatives be informed about it. I would ask that the authority of your president be used and that we get a separate opinion. As for respecting the demographic principles, Susana Jasic. I'm a man who always has a kind of almost naive belief that bad news doesn't have to reflect the nature of a person, because both of us and ourselves can hear a lot of news that doesn't suit our nature. When I first heard that Susana Jasic was involved at the beginning of the mandate in the process of handling ballots about the duration of the mandate of certain council members, however, I had three witnesses who testified that it was indeed the act. One of them is Reverend Pintaric, perhaps to some colleagues that he is Reverend and does not mean much, and I somehow believed him, that a man would not lie if he had seen it and that she testified that it had happened so that later both before the Council and before the public would deny it. The other thing, for me personally, is quite traumatic. I was under GONG in a parliamentary debate and colleagues from HSP will confirm the truthfulness of this claim, when a werewolf defender, instrumented by Happy Ferenchuck, came to threaten my secretaries while I was gone. She ended the story well because I called him, later he became my volunteer, and I didn't want to abuse my ability to influence a man like that to bring him back as a boomerang colleague to Ferenchak and beat him up. I insisted that Susana Jasic protect my staff there, she did it with indignity. And a third small case that raises the attachment of a person to the basic demographic principles was created for me by one of the otherwise important, in the period of this pre-election campaign, I was informed that Croatian television is trying to sort of spread a rumor about me that will destroy me as a presidential candidate. And I was thinking what it might be, I thought it would accuse me of stealing somewhere a million euros, but they came up with a fantastic trick, they said I was smuggling into a tram without a paid ticket. It's the biggest thing that can be made and that destroys your credibility. Because if you steal 50 million Euros, you're a respected citizen. If you're at the head of the Employers' Association, then HDZ will suggest you be, I was the only one against the man who was elected here today. But when you're accused of it, I asked the Program Council to let me deal with it in some way. That reporter called me. I said, "It's stupid." I even got confirmation from ZET that I wasn't smuggling. I don't drive a tram. So I'll tell you, I don't know if this is enough reasons, but I'd ask you colleagues to respect one circumstance when you talk about it that it's a big procedural, big procedural problem to appoint such persons. That there is no institution for a parliamentary hearing in Croatia. That there's no "hearing." So these people don't sit there today. If we were to correct it in those regulations, this kind of passion wouldn't happen for sure. I personally cannot vote for Susana Jasic. It'd be like being a masochist, and that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45705	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Tomorrow's Saturday. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be relatively brief because I think colleagues Hebrang and Zuzul have said more or less what I wanted to say. But I'm actually interested in what we're talking about here. Whether about Susana Jasic, about democracy or about something called the Holy Cow, the Holy Cow Croatian Radio-Television, which is obvious for some still untouchable. I'll just tell you that on the board on which we refused both the programming and the financial report that our colleagues who disagreed with us warned that it would happen I'd say almost a national disaster if we didn't accept it. That we don't know what we're doing, they told us. That we're not aware of what we're going to do to the current directorship of what we're going to do and what's going to happen. I guess World War III, I don't know. So at that point, it was already clear that in no way, they didn't like our critical thinking so of course they didn't like it either, I don't know what it's called, Mrs. Jasic. Now I wonder what's wrong with that democracy? I mean, are we equal or are some more equal? Because I've heard some here and today I'd say threatening words. I'm not sure when Mr. Racan was talking about very serious consequences if an inter-party agreement on candidates was upset about what he meant by that? Again with some far-reaching consequences? Well, for God's sake, we're in the Croatian Parliament. I don't let anyone here threaten me and I want to say what I mean. Just like I want to hear what you think. But about the consequences of me, my colleagues or anyone because I disagree with you on the Committee or here in this Chamber, let me do this today, in 2005 in my Croatia I do not allow /Applause/ [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45707	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45708	Dear Mr. President, there have been a lot of different grades here today. I can say the same thing as Mrs. Jagoda said that I was the most disturbed by the threat. A threat to us in the assembly that we will have far-reaching consequences. I am interested in being told these consequences, which will happen to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament if we discuss any problem, and especially if we are discussing only that a parliamentary representative in this building has debated and that his conviction has been sought here in this article. I think it's totally unacceptable, and as well as the position and opposition work in the Parliament for democracy and how social democracy is represented in Europe I think it's not, it's not good for either side of the Parliament and that it shouldn't be as nervous as some of them are here tonight but that we can discuss it soberly and without, without threats. No big words. Someone here has said that this is not a dispute that the lady said, it is not a dispute between the HDZ or the HDZ Club, but that it is only a conflict of two people. That's not true. It's not a two-person conflict. It's a challenge to democracy. It's a challenge that someone in the House is saying that someone in the Parliament is talking and that that's why they're asking for his conviction. Mr Vujic said members of the Council should make their own decisions. That's right. But MPs also need to speak and decide on their own. But if they're asked for responsibility, how is that going to happen? We're looking for both. Interparty agreement says Mr. Racan we had and now he's not being respected. Yeah, we had him. But after that, there was a statement from the lady in question and, basically, the whole case. And I think we should talk about it in that direction, not that it's a similarity, about the right to an opinion that nobody's talking about. We're just saying that it can't be that in the Croatian Parliament when someone says something critical that they're looking for his responsibility in another forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45709	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45710	Comrade Zubak has accused us in a certain way that we are contesting democracy. ... Zubović, Zubović. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Zubović!]] Yeah, yeah. A random singer or a intentional one, but I apologize. So we do not dispute Mr. Hebrang's right to speak and to express his view and opinion of the Council and Mrs. Susanna. But we dispute that her opinion may be an obstacle to being a member of the Council. So we can't have double criteria. Especially when Mr. Hebrang calls for his power as a representative. And that from that position, from that position, interprets the law and determines who's legal, who's the lawless worker? It's, it's possible but it's dangerous. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45711	Thank you. Replica Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45712	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When it is said to be a challenge to democracy when trying to talk about a critical opinion, let your colleagues ask a question that is related to the law. And what about democracy if someone is challenged by his right? Dear colleagues and colleagues under the Law on Croatian Radio Television, Article 18 clearly provides for candidates to be proposed from the ranks of associations. Then yes, which are the names of the associations. Likewise, they must meet certain criteria and agree on the clubs of MPs with the same right of minority representation and the majority, the parliamentary majority. So if the parliamentary minority has proposed and agreed to a parliamentary majority over some candidate, why are you contesting the right of the candidate. Maybe he's not a good candidate. But why are you challenging a minority to be her candidate? That's the first one. Second, with the right to challenge a candidate who also supported one association and the other. And it says it's the law. So, in this debate, we are in part challenging the law itself, the law. Dear colleagues, and in this respect, it should be kept in mind that the issue of democracy is deeply related to the procedure as candidates are determined, as they are elected and voted in accordance with the law and, of course, possibly by the committee's decision. And secondly, which is very important obviously here is the right of the minority to propose its candidates. Let's not talk about such things then call for it to be a violation of democracy, while at the same time insulting the right of others... the candidate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think we're going to get that far in a segment like that. We need to discuss whether or not this consensual agreement remains or not, and in such a situation we need to discuss, rather than throw ourselves away with big words about the injury of democracy, etc., etc. Because we stay with the candidate who established the committee in accordance with the legal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45713	Third. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Davor Bozinovic as a member of the National Committee for the appointment of Hrvojo Cvitanović as a member of the National Committee. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I note that with 91 votes for and one abstentioned Davor Bozinovic has been relieved of the duties of members of the National Committee and of Hrvoja Cvitanović as a member of the National Committee. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dark Marine as a member of the National Committee for the appointment of Emil Tedeschi as a member of the National Committee. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 88 votes for, one abstention and one against Darko Marinac, he has been relieved of his duties as a member of the National Committee and Emil Tedeski as a member of the National Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45716	Thank you. Mr. Zubovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45717	Mr. Vice President, I'd say there's a replacement here. We do not dispute the fact that, that the lady was elected or that she was proposed and that she was in agreement. We only dispute that after it has been agreed that she makes such a statement and that she attacks, that she attacks whoever criticizes her. You understand? For his spoken word. Only she, she can personally, but she asked that one body... and used Croatian TV and I agree with Mršić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He did exactly all the chronologically, and all that was done by the lady. And whether or not God knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45718	It's Mr. Representative Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45719	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, just in a bit of a strange way we were in yesterday 15 minutes before the scheduled session was called to the meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media and just the two representatives from the Croatian Democratic Community together with the other members of the Committee determined the proposal you received today on the parliamentary benches. Of course, they cannot agree with this way of working of the Committee on Elections and Appointing, and in that part all the members of the Committee who could not have been due to other obligations and were not at that moment within the Assembly's space were justified and of course they were not able to deliver their opinions either. We supported this proposal as agreed within all parliamentary clubs in this House and we proposed to the Croatian Assembly these five people. We did not discuss, and we should have discussed the report of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council and the general report on the work of Croatian Radio Television in the past period, because at the last session of the Assembly Committee on Information, Information and Media on several occasions, both from the President of the Programme Council and from the director of Croatian Radio Television, we received clear knowledge that the work within the editorial office is not done professionally and responsibly. Here we really have to ask ourselves whether the Programme Council controls the editors-in-chief, whether it suggests, how it will work, if I am the president of the Programme Council Mr. Zdenko Leviak said there is still a lot of amateurism on Croatian radio television. And this is confirmed by Mr. Mirko Galić's director. We can't get into any illusions here that the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council is a non-essential body, when, for God's sake, we all know that Croatian Radio is the strongest medium that can have a major impact on public change and that it can definitely, unless it's objective, do a lot of damage both to individuals and thus total democratisation within Croatia. A great deal of damage and against this non-professionalism on Croatian Radio TV is all here that we are ultimately the most representative legislative body against it is the non-professionalism that we still have to fight. If we want public television to really be public and highly professional then we must do everything possible to make the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council an independent body, to be representatives of the parliamentary majority, the parliamentary ruling structure and parliamentary opposition and thus balance the political relationship of forces within the Programme Council itself. Because I really don't believe there's a member of the HRT Programme Council who's politically independent amongst other things. I will join in this part of my colleagues who have expressed their dissatisfaction that we do not choose the Programme Council or part of the Programme Council after the debate on the report on the work of the HRT, because I think that this is exactly the kind of one decision on the selection of the Programme Council, part of the Programme Council we have prejudged both the debate or at least the course of the debate that we will have on the reports, the Croatian Radio and the work of the HRT Programme Council. I would like to point out once again that as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media and as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I cannot be satisfied with the work of the current Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television when the Programme Council and its president say they have failed to solve key problems in Croatia, on Croatian radio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45720	Thank you very much. Replica Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45721	Dear colleague Clem, that's the problem. That's the problem. You're telling yourself that there is the right of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority to have their own representative and to agree on such a proposal and where it just happened. Only the problem arises when the candidate over whom parliamentary parties have reached agreement, in a particular case supported by the parliamentary minority, says something that does not like the parliamentary majority, then the parliamentary majority thinks he could not be a candidate, that it should be changed. Is it, I'm sorry, what is the right under the law of the parliamentary minority? That's number one. Number two, please, I would just like to remind you that here is not only a problem with the rule of law and democratic relations, but the issue, among other things, of the issue of the public and the independence of the work of Croatian Radio and Television, i.e. Croatian Television, is explicitly stated in Article 14 of Article 2(2), in public responsibility, which, the HRT for the public as an influence on its activities, is achieved in particular through the process of appointing members of the HRT Programme Council and in public work, the task of the Programme Council represents and protects the interests of listeners and viewers. Well, excuse me what form is this discussion, this debate, in what form of independence and the public are we speaking of the Croatian Radio-Televisions of the Programme Council? If in this way we are actually trying to eliminate the candidates because he said something that we do not like or at this point is not acceptable to one of the parliamentary groups in the majority. For God's sake, we need to talk openly about this issue, I agree with the question of critical opinion we need to cultivate, but we can't be and be entitled to someone's right to a critical opinion, and someone else, if not power, doesn't. Well, that's not working. It just doesn't work, and in a situation like this, I'm going back to what you said first. Right, it's true, by law, there are both a majority and a minority to propose their candidacy among other things. They suggested, for God's sake, you're not going to challenge the minority, so the minority can't vote that candidate, but only with the majority. If you dispute the right of the minority to have that candidate, then you practically want to determine the minority that the candidate will have and that is not democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45722	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45723	My answer will go public. Public television can't be a secret, and it can't be classified on public television. Under number 1, and there are a lot of secret things on public Croatian radio and in this work, we will discuss this item on the agenda, not a single word, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I did not say a word about Suzanne Jasic, who is often called here today. However, I am one of the people in the HDZ who made the quorum yesterday, and together with the other board members, established a decision, although there were all elements not to work, not to come to that committee, that it could not be 15 minutes before the board meeting and that it would be possible to ask for representatives around the city, cities, counties, etc. In that part, I believe that we do not need to make any progress and that it is not a good case to call meetings 15 minutes before they are to be held and then when we make decisions, there are problems like these that have occurred here. We expect Croatian radio and television to be truly objective and public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45724	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45725	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague's representative that public television must not have secrets. He shouldn't have secrets, right, but first of all he shouldn't have a polygon to prove and test someone's political power. As for the procedure for calling the board and the committee's session itself, I fully understand. It's not a very simple situation and it's frustrating, you know, I wouldn't feel so good if I had to raise my hand for one thing yesterday, and today I have to change my mind overnight. I'm convinced that dear fellow you wouldn't have to change your mind, let's just say Mr. Hebrang was on his way today. You would have voted the same way today as you voted yesterday, and actually that's it and that's it. And one more thing. You know what? If it's democracy, I'll say under quotes "terror of the majority", then it's not democracy. Democracy, however, is slightly more subtle, and in that sense 15 minutes before the board's meeting, it's something illegal, people are looking for cities and counties. I'm sorry, there's a lot of times that the president here at the table has read that in half or 15 minutes, he's gonna be sitting on the board in a break. It is also primarily the workplace here in the Parliament. Those who weren't at the board meeting yesterday and who, who should be looking for the county and cities, were not at work and I don't understand these excuses I must admit. I'm saying, I understand frustration, but I don't understand those excuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45726	Answer, Mr. Hansel Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45727	Dear fellow MP, it's not about any frustrations under number one. How much knowledge do I have, since I was in the Parliament yesterday, nor was the President of the Croatian Parliament announcing the meeting, nor was there a announcement on the floor that there would be a session for the Committee on Selection and Information, nor was one part of the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community even aware that the session would be held yesterday at that time. It's not the part, and if we hadn't, if we wanted to obstruct the board, we would have obstructed it. No one is talking here about how we will vote or any of us has decided which way to vote, and democracy on Croatian television, public television, we feel. Let's feel how Croatian Radio-Television works today... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45728	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45729	Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, please grant a half-hour break to discuss the further course of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45730	Thank you very much. Resume session in 8 and 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45731	Ladies and gentlemen, after the request for a break, we will proceed with the session. I'd like a representative of the HDZ Club, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45732	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We've been arguing for a long time in this House tonight, but we've been looking for a club break to figure out how to proceed. We have concluded that we should end the debate and move towards voting. I want to repeat the HDZ club, it remains with its fundamental principle and with the democratic gains of this House, that inter-party agreements are respected. That's what we've done so far, and we've never broken that agreement. We're not going to break it now. We will vote in favour of the list, because that is what the law says, but it is our right and obligation to show dissatisfaction to say to this House that it is unacceptable to continue to be unacceptable to us in the way that Mrs Jasic has acted towards a parliamentary representative. That it is a precedent to ask whether tomorrow the administrative council or member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Forests will call Ivica Racan because he spoke against the reports of the Croatian Forests. Will the state review call Peru Kovacevic tomorrow for criticising the review report. Do we put parliamentary deputies in a position not to dare discuss individual reports? Do we thus introduce a new practice of undemocratic, unacceptable in this House? It's unacceptable for us. As we have defended Mr Hebrang tonight, in this House we will defend every member of this Parliament and his dignity and dignity in this way and the entire Croatian Parliament. So I invite you colleagues and colleagues to stop the debate to go to the vote and stick to these principles. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45733	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative of Ivica Racan Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45734	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We welcome the position of the HDZ Club. Perhaps the debate we have had regardless of the temperamental moments is not bad if we can come to a good conclusion at the end of the debate. As far as the SDP club is concerned, we have defended and we will defend the right to speak freely in critical terms both Mr Hebrang and Mrs Susana Jasic. We understand that some of us will not like such a speech. It is a situation that is logical for democracy and democratic relations. We didn't have a problem with people's proposals once either, but we didn't open a debate about them if, on the basis of the party's agreement, they were proposed by the HDZ. I think it would be good to stick to some of these democratic principles and I'm still glad that today, if this position and the HDZ club were to be accepted tonight, we'd both be able to realise it and explain my words. When I warned of possible serious controversies, I didn't mean human-specific conjectures, either by individuals or by representatives of the HDZ, but if we were going that way, it would be serious consequences for democracy and democratic relations. There's no point in me talking about it anymore, and that's why I'm ending it. I support this thinking and conclusion of the HDZ Club. I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we just give up the debate if you agree and that we end this topic in a way that defends, I would say the dignity and democratic role of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45735	Thank you very much. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45736	Thank you, Mr. President. I think I made myself clear at the beginning. We said we wanted to respect the law, that this law had some kind of procedure to be passed today. The board did their part, the parties agreed, it was decided to be 3 from HDZ, 3 from the opposition, 3 from the ruling group, and 3 from the opposition, and I said it then. I don't know, and it's not very clear to me that we should have had such a debate and that in this way we should have made our relationship so clear, I don't believe that we needed it because it was all going in some wrong direction and I don't think we're here to protect the character and the work of an individual parliamentary representative but to protect the integrity of the entire Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-29-0.u45737	Thank you very much. Can I be of the opinion that the MPs who applied for the hearing have withdrawn their applications? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's take the key in our hands. The quorum? 81 present representative and representative. So we have a quorum. I am voting on the motion for a decision as a whole. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? I find that the decision was made with 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 1 against. Thank you. I'm closing this session. The next one will be scheduled in due time. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda: - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia; Representative Cain, please welcome.
